{"id": "1947126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947126", "title": "Royal Hudson", "text": "Royal Hudson\n\nThe Royal Hudsons are a group of semi-streamlined 4-6-4 \"Hudson\" type steam locomotives owned by the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) and built by Montreal Locomotive Works (MLW). The engine was built in 1938. In 1939, King George VI allowed the CPR to use the term after Royal Hudson number 2850 transported the royal train across Canada with no need of replacement. These locomotives were in service between 1937 and 1960. Four of them have been preserved. No. 2839 was used to power excursions for the Southern Railway Steam Program between 1979 and 1980. No. 2860 was used for excursion service in British Columbia between 1974 and 1999, then again between 2006 and 2010.\n\nIn 1939, King George VI and Queen Elizabeth visited Canada, arriving at Wolfe's Cove, Quebec, on 17 May 1939. This was the first time that a reigning monarch had visited Canada. The King and Queen took a tour of the country by rail. The CPR and the Canadian National Railways (CNR) shared the honours of transporting the royal train across the country, with the CPR undertaking the westbound journey, from Quebec City to Vancouver. The steam locomotive that the CPR used to pull the train was numbered 2850, a 4-6-4 built by Montreal Locomotive works. Specially painted in silver and blue, the locomotive ran across Canada, through 25 changes of crew, without engine failure. The King, somewhat of a railbuff, rode in the cab when possible. The King was so impressed with the performance of 2850 and her class, that after the tour, the King gave the CPR permission to use the term \"Royal Hudson\" for the semi-streamlined locomotives of the class (numbered 2820-2859, 2860-2864 were built one year later as Royal Hudsons) and to display Royal Crowns on the running board skirts. This was the first, and last time a locomotive outside of the United Kingdom was given royal status by the reigning monarch.\n\nThe CPR owned a total of 65 class H1 Hudsons built by MLW. Classes H1a and H1b, numbered 2800-2819, were not semi-streamlined and were not \"Royal\" Hudsons. The Canadian Pacific Railway owned 30 class H1c Royal Hudsons, numbered 2820-2849, built in 1937, 10 class H1d Royal Hudsons, numbered 2850-2859, built in 1938, and five class H1e Royal Hudsons, numbered 2860-2864, built in 1940. The class H1c and class H1d Royal Hudsons were used in passenger and freight service in the East and in the Central Provinces. The class H1e (Nos. 2860 through 2864) Royal Hudsons were all built as oil-burners for the service between Vancouver and Revelstoke where they worked until they were displaced by diesels. At the end of 1952 the H1c and H1d were assigned to the sheds in Montreal (10), Toronto (7), Fort William (4), Winnipeg (17) and Calgary (2) – the brackets showing the assigned number of locomotives. All five H1e were assigned to Vancouver.\n\nThe Royal Hudsons were used on all main lines of the CPR except Montreal–Saint John due to bridge weight restrictions. They worked almost all transcontinental passenger trains. The Dominion was hauled by a Royal Hudson 811 miles from Toronto to Fort William and by another one 1250 miles further on to Calgary. There, a more powerful Selkirk took over till Revelstoke and a H1e brought the train over the last 379 miles to Vancouver.\n\nBy 1960, all of the 20 Hudsons and 45 Royal Hudsons had been retired due to having been completely replaced by diesel locomotives.\n\nOne Royal Hudson,  2860, was later used in excursion service. A class H1e Royal Hudson, it was built for the CPR by MLW in June 1940. It was the first locomotive of five to be built new as Royal Hudson and delivered with painted cast-brass crowns affixed to its skirts. Between 1940 and 1956 it hauled transcontinental passenger trains between Revelstoke and Vancouver. It was damaged in a derailment outside of Vancouver in 1956, but by 1957 it had been refurbished and was transferred to Winnipeg for prairie service. It was withdrawn from service in May 1959 and sat on the scrap line for five years. It was sold to the Vancouver Railway Museum Association in 1964. However, the association was unable to find a place to display the locomotive and it remained in storage at the Drake Street shops in Vancouver. Once again the locomotive faced the risk of being scrapped, but she was sold to Joe W. Hussey in 1970.\n\nIn 1973 Hussey sold 2860 to the British Columbia government. The locomotive was restored by Robert E. Swanson's Railway Appliance Research Ltd. team and the staff of the CPR Drake Street roundhouse shops beginning on 25 November 1973 and then operated by the British Columbia Department of Travel Industry with the cooperation of the British Columbia Railway. The BCR commenced a Royal Hudson excursion service between North Vancouver and Squamish on 20 June 1974. By the end of the 1974 tourist season, 47,295 passengers had been carried and the excursion was deemed successful. It was the only regularly scheduled steam excursion over mainline trackage in North America. The excursion operated between May and October, from Wednesday through Saturday. It also travelled North America in the late 1970s as a promotion for BC tourism. It quickly became one of British Columbia's main tourist attractions and an icon of Canadian steam power.\n\nWhile the engine was being prepared for Christmas trains at the end of the 1999 tourist season, 2860 was found to have serious leaks from the superheater elements. The superheaters and the arch tubes were known to be life expired and some other fairly major boiler work was required. A variety of factors prevented BC Rail from carrying out the repairs immediately, including the fact that Canadian Pacific 2816 was in the BCR shop being rebuilt under contract, and that all BC Rail passenger services were under threat in the lead up to the eventual privatization of BC Rail. After the election of the BC Liberal government in 2001 all passenger services were gradually phased out starting with the Royal Hudson excursion. The Royal Hudson excursion used other locomotives during the 2000 and 2001 seasons, such as back up locomotive 3716 (an ex-Canadian Pacific 2-8-0 which is also provincially owned and currently operates on the Kettle Valley Steam Railway in Summerland).\n\nCurrently, the 2860 is still owned by the British Columbia government, but is on permanent loan to the West Coast Railway Association (WCRA) and is housed at the West Coast Railway Heritage Park in Squamish, but has been seen on the CNR line from Squamish to North Vancouver since late April 2009.\n\nOn 28 September 2006, the Royal Hudson steamed into the WCRA Squamish station under her own power for the first time since October 1999. The restoration took just over one year with a cost of over $250,000. Money for the restoration was provided wholly by donations. The WCRA also had difficulty locating missing parts. Some of the major components, such as the trailing truck, were borrowed from sister engine 2850. The borrowed parts had to be returned when 2850 was put on public display. WCRA replaced the borrowed tailing truck with one that was being used at a mine, which had salvaged the truck from a Royal Hudson due for scrap. The truck turned out to have been taken off of 2860 when she was sitting on the scrap line in the 1960s. The association plans to operate 2860 on excursion runs and at special events. Due to the strict \"no steam\" policy that CP and CN have, the excursions are restricted to special occasions only. 2860 is steamed up regularly for publicity and to salute passing passenger trains.\n\nOn 9 December 2010, the ex-CP 2860 and the Royal Hudson trainset were scheduled to depart North Vancouver for Squamish at 12:30 pm on the last of its scheduled excursion trips in 2010. The ex-CP 2860's certification expired in January 2011 and the cost of the necessary work is estimated at over . The December 9 trip is likely to be her last for a long time.\n\nRoyal Hudson No. 2839 was once destined for a museum in eastern Canada and wound up being sold to a group of owners in Pennsylvania. After a restoration to full working order to full CPR livery (with Southern lettering), the engine was leased to the Southern Railway for their steam excursion program in 1979–1980, but was found that the locomotive was not powerful enough for their excursions. During her brief career with the Southern, 2839 earned the nickname \"beer can\" due to the Royal Hudson's cylindrical streamlined design. After being returned from the Southern, the engine was stored on the Blue Mountain and Reading Railroad before being stored near Allentown, PA. The Blue Mountain and Reading Railroad attempted to restore and run her on excursions, but ultimately 2839 was sold. After a series of owners, the engine was shipped on a flat car from Pennsylvania to the Nethercutt Collection in Sylmar, California, where it has been cosmetically restored and put on display outside the museum with a Pullman car.\n\nRoyal Hudson locomotive 2839 appeared in the 1980 movie \"Coal Miner's Daughter\", which is the life story of singer Loretta Lynn. The train is in Southern Railway guise and can be seen in operation in two scenes. \n\nWaiting-in-the-train-station-from-coal-miner-s-daughter-1980_shortfilms\n\nFour Royal Hudsons have been preserved (Hudson  2816 is not streamlined and thus is not \"Royal\" but is often mistakenly referred as a Royal Hudson, some call her \"Royal\" due to her name, \"Empress\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947137", "title": "Blade Runner (soundtrack)", "text": "Blade Runner (soundtrack)\n\nBlade Runner is the soundtrack for Ridley Scott's 1982 science-fiction noir film \"Blade Runner\", composed by Greek electronic musician Vangelis. It has received acclaim as among Vangelis's best work and an influential work in the history of electronic music. It was nominated in 1983 for a BAFTA and Golden Globe as best original score. \n\nThe score evokes the film's bleak futurism with an emotive synthesizer-based sound, drawing on the jazz scores of classic film noir as well as neo-classical elements and Middle Eastern texture. It features vocals from Demis Roussos and saxophone by Dick Morrissey on \"Love Theme\". The track \"Memories of Green\" from Vangelis' 1980 album \"See You Later\" was also used.\n\nThe official release of the soundtrack was delayed for over a decade. The first 1994 release omitted much of the film's score and included compositions not used in the film. A 25th anniversary edition released in 2007 included further unreleased material and a disc of new music inspired by the film. Various bootleg recordings containing more comprehensive versions of the score, as well as superior sound quality to the original 1994 release, have widely circulated.\n\nAn orchestral rendition of the soundtrack was released in 1982 by the New American Orchestra, but disowned by both Vangelis and director Scott. \n\nVangelis recorded, mixed and produced the score for \"Blade Runner\" in his London recording space Nemo Studios in 1982. He crafted the score on an ad-hoc basis by viewing videotapes of scenes from the film in the studio, and then improvising pieces in synchronisation with the images on the screen. He also applied the use of some foley techniques, using synthesisers to produce diegetic and non-diegetic sounds. \n\nThe most prominent synthesiser used in the score was the Yamaha CS-80, which can be prominently heard in the opening scenes. Other synthesisers employed by Vangelis included four Roland instruments: the ProMars, the Jupiter-4, the CR-5000 drum machine, and the VP-330 Vocoder Plus; a Sequential Circuits Prophet-10; a Yamaha GS1 FM synthesizer; and an E-mu Emulator sampler. A Steinway grand piano, a Yamaha CP-80 electric grand and a modified Fender Rhodes were also used. He also utilised a variety of traditional instruments, including, gamelan, glockenspiel, gong, snare drum, timpani and tubular bells.\n\nIn 1994, an official recording of Vangelis' score was released by East West (Warner Music) in the UK and by Atlantic Records in the US. The album reached the #20 position in the UK album charts. In 2013 it reached #14 on the \"Billboard\" Vinyl Albums chart. It has been variously described as \"influential and mythical\", \"incredible and pristine\", \"evocative\", and \"the pinnacle of synthesiser soundtracks\". AllMusic labeled the score as \n\"bleak and electronically chilling as the film itself\" and praised Vangelis for creating \"haunting soundscapes with whispered subtexts and sweeping revelations\".\n\nThis release nonetheless omits much of the film's original music and cues, and features compositions which were not present in the film. The accompanying booklet featured this explanation by Vangelis:\nWhile most of the tracks on the album are from the film, a number were composed by Vangelis but were ultimately not used in the film itself. Other compositions that appear in the film were not included on this release.\n\nFour of the tracks (\"Main Titles\", \"Blush Response\", \"Wait For Me\", and finally \"Tears in Rain\") feature samples of dialogue from the film. Tracks 1 through 4 are mixed together as a seamless piece; tracks 5 through 7 have silence between them, and the final tracks, 8 through 12, are mixed into another seamless piece.\n\n\"Blade Runner Trilogy: 25th Anniversary\", a 3-CD set, was released in 2007 to coincide with the 5-DVD release to mark the 25th anniversary of the film. It includes the 1994 official CD along with two bonus CDs, both compiled from original material by Vangelis. The second disc includes some previously officially unreleased material, but is still not complete, omitting the \"Main Title\" track, for example. The third disc contains new material inspired by \"Blade Runner\". Each track is a separate piece, separated by silence, rather than any of them being mixed together seamlessly as was the case with all but three tracks in the 1994 version.\n\nAlthough this release claims to be the \"complete\" score, there is still some music heard in the film that is missing.\n\nThe second disc, of previously unreleased music, contains additional music not present in the film, including two bonus tracks. One of these, \"Desolation Path\", is a slightly different version of \"Alternate Love Theme/I Dreamt Music\". This track was originally used in the workprint version of the film, during the Deckard/Rachel love scene.\n\nThe first official release (on LP, tape and CD) was a reinterpretation by the New American Orchestra in 1982. Billed as an \"orchestral adaptation of music composed for the motion picture by Vangelis\", this release consisted of jazz-inspired, orchestrated renditions of the major tracks from the film, but not the original score tracks.\n\nThe delays and poor reproductions of the \"Blade Runner\" score led to the production of many bootleg recordings over the years. A bootleg tape surfaced in 1982 at science fiction conventions and became popular, given the delay of an official release of the original recordings. In 1993 \"Off World Music, Ltd.\" created a bootleg CD that would prove more comprehensive than Vangelis' official CD in 1994. A disc from \"Gongo Music\" features most of the same material, but more of it. The Deck Definitive Edition came about in 2001, with 27 tracks. In 2002, the \"Esper Edition\" bootleg surfaced, followed by \"Los Angeles, November 2019\" in 2003. The double-disc \"Esper Edition\" combined tracks from the official release, the Gongo boot and the film itself. Finally, \"2019\" provided a single-disc compilation almost wholly consisting of ambient sound from the film, padded out with some sounds from the Westwood game \"Blade Runner\".\n\nThe first release of the \"Blade Runner\" score in any form was a tape suspected of coming from a sound engineer during the film's mixing. It was popular, despite subpar audio quality, given there were no plans to release a Vangelis score.\n\nA second bootleg \"Original Motion Picture Soundtrack: Blade Runner\" appeared in 1993 by \"Off World Music, Ltd.\" on CD. Issued as a limited edition of 2000 numbered copies, it was of high quality and actually more comprehensive than the official release by Vangelis in 1994. This release includes the 1939 recording \"If I Didn't Care\" by R&B group The Ink Spots that originally appeared in the workprint of \"Blade Runner\", but was replaced by the Don Percival cut \"One More Kiss, Dear\" in the final version.\n\nIn 1995, a disc from Romanian label \"Gongo Music, Ltd\" was issued as a limited edition of 3000 copies. It contained mostly the same music as the Off World Music release, but included one track, \"Blimpvert\", which had not featured on any previous releases. This track contains an excerpt from \"Ogi no Mato\" by Ensemble Nipponia.\n\nIn 2001, a 27-track CD from Japanese label \"Deck Art\" was released as a limited edition of 500 copies with high-quality sound. No tracklist was provided, but the disc contained material found on earlier bootlegs, as well as music that had not appeared on any previous releases.\n\nIn 2002 a bootleg \"Blade Runner: Esper Edition\" by \"Esper Productions\" was created as a limited edition of 10 copies, providing a comprehensive \"Blade Runner\" soundtrack. It contains some background music that has never been released.\n\nEsper Edition notes:\n\nThe Esper bootleg edition was expanded in 2017 and renamed the \"Retirement' Edition\", consisting of six discs (five CD-DA and one DVD-ROM). It incorporated the missing tracks from the trilogy release.\n\nIn 2017, a sequel to \"Blade Runner\" was released, \"Blade Runner 2049\". Hans Zimmer and Benjamin Wallfisch collaborated on the \"Blade Runner 2049\" score, and the original \"Blade Runner\" soundtrack served as inspiration for their work. The composers included a Yamaha CS-80 analog synthesizer among the instruments in an effort to maintain stylistic continuity with Vangelis's original 1982 film score. Zimmer said of the soundtrack: \"Ridley [Scott] is a hard act to follow – as is Vangelis. While Ben [Wallfisch] was four years old, I had actually experienced all of this. We watched and literally, as we stopped watching, we decided on the palette. We decided this wasn't going to be an orchestral thing. The story spoke to us.\" The sequel score includes a fairly faithful remake of the original \"Tears in Rain\" (retitled \"Tears in the Rain\") and borrows many musical cues from the original Vangelis score throughout, including its frequent use of pitch bending.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947144", "title": "Side platform", "text": "Side platform\n\nA side platform is a platform positioned to the side of one or more railway tracks or guideways at a railway station, tram stop, or transitway. Dual side platform stations, one for each direction of travel, is the basic station design used for double-track railway lines (as opposed to, for instance, the island platform where a single platform lies between the tracks). Side platforms may result in a wider overall footprint for the station compared with an island platform where a single width of platform can be shared by riders using either track.\n\nIn some stations, the two side platforms are connected by a footbridge running above and over the tracks. While a pair of side platforms is often provided on a dual-track line, a single side platform is usually sufficient for a single-track line. \n\nWhere the station is close to a level crossing (grade crossing) the platforms may either be on the same side of the crossing road or alternatively may be staggered in one of two ways. With the 'near-side platforms' configuration, each platform appears before the intersection and with 'far-side platforms' they are positioned after the intersection. \n\nIn some situations a single side platform can be served by multiple vehicles simultaneously with a scissors crossing provided to allow access mid-way along its length.\n\nMost stations with two side platforms have an 'Up' platform which is used by trains heading towards the primary destination of the line, with the other platform being the 'Down' platform which takes trains heading the opposite way. Normally, the main facilities of the station are located on the 'Up' platform with the other platform accessed from a footbridge, subway or a track crossing. However, in many cases the station's main buildings are located on whichever side faces the town or village the station serves.\n\nLarger stations may have two side platforms with several island platforms in between. Some are in a Spanish solution format, with two side platforms and an island platform in between, serving two tracks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947154", "title": "Downsville, Wisconsin", "text": "Downsville, Wisconsin\n\nDownsville is an unincorporated census-designated place in the town of Dunn, in Dunn County, Wisconsin, United States. The community was founded at a crossing of the Red Cedar River in 1855. As of the 2010 census, its population was 146.\n\nThe Empire in Pine Museum is located in Downsville. About 3 miles south of the community lies the girlhood home of Caddie Woodlawn, preserved at the Caddie Woodlawn Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947159", "title": "Wishbone formation", "text": "Wishbone formation\n\nThe wishbone formation, also known simply as the bone, is an offensive formation in American football. The style of attack to which it gives rise is known as the wishbone offense. Like the spread offense in the 2000s, the wishbone was considered to be the most productive and innovative offensive scheme in college football during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nWhile the record books commonly refer to Emory Bellard developing the wishbone formation in 1968 as offensive coordinator at Texas, the wishbone's roots can be traced back to the 1950s. According to Barry Switzer, it was Charles “Spud” Cason, football coach at William Monnig Junior High School of Fort Worth, Texas, who first modified the classic T formation in order “to get a slow fullback into the play quicker.” Cason called the formation “Monnig T”. Bellard learned about Cason's tactics while coaching at Breckenridge High School, a small community west of Fort Worth.\n\nEarlier in his career Bellard saw a similar approach implemented by former Detroit Lions guard Ox Emerson, then head coach at Alice High School near Corpus Christi, Texas. Trying to avoid the frequent pounding of his offensive line, Emerson moved one of the starting guards into the backfield, enabling him to get a running start at the opposing defensive line. Bellard served as Emerson's assistant at that time. During his high school coaching career in the late '50s and early '60s, Bellard adopted the basic approaches of both Cason and Emerson, as he won two 3A Texas state championships Breckenridge in 1958 and 1959 and a 4A state title at San Angelo Central High School in 1966, using a wishbone-like option offense.\n\nIn 1967 Bellard was hired by Darrell Royal and became offensive coordinator a year later. The Texas Longhorns only scored 18.6 points per game in a 6–4 season in 1967. After watching Texas A&M—running offensive coordinator Bud Moore and Gene Stallings' option offense—beat Bear Bryant's Alabama team in the 1968 Cotton Bowl Classic, Royal instructed Bellard to design a new three-man back-field triple option offense. Bellard tried to merge his old high school tactics with Stallings' triple option out of the Slot-I formation and Homer Rice's variations of the Veer, an offensive formation created by Bill Yeoman.\n\nWhen Texas introduced the new offensive scheme at the beginning of the 1968 season, \"Houston Chronicle\" sportswriter Mickey Herskowitz stated it looked like a “pulley bone”; Royal agreed but changed the name to “wishbone”. Royal quickly embraced the idea of the wishbone, though it did not immediately work, as the Longhorns tied their first game running the new offense and went into halftime of their second game against Texas Tech trailing 21–0. This led Royal to make the first of two changes which proved key to the future success of the wishbone. He replaced initial starting quarterback Bill Bradley, who proved to have trouble with the reads and pitches that were key to the new formation, with James Street, who nearly led the Longhorns to a comeback win. Then, while analyzing film from the Texas Tech loss, an assistant noticed that fullback Steve Worster was reaching the line of scrimmage too soon. At the assistant's suggestion, Royal and Bellard then had Worster start a step farther back from the quarterback. According to Bradley, \"When we moved Worster back and James took over, we just caught fire.\" Texas won its next 30 games, leading to two national championships using the formation. In 1971 Royal showed the offense to Bear Bryant, who was so enamored with it that he installed it at Alabama complete with his own touches.\n\nBellard later left Texas and – using the wishbone – guided Texas A&M and Mississippi State to bowl game appearances in the late 1970s. At Mississippi State Bellard “broke the bone” and introduced the “wing-bone”, moving one of the halfbacks up to a wing formation and frequently sending him in motion. Another variation of the wishbone formation is called the flexbone.\n\nIronically, the longest running wishbone offense was run not by Texas but by their arch-rivals, the University of Oklahoma, who ran variations of the wishbone well into the mid-1990s. Oklahoma coach Barry Switzer has been credited by some for having “perfected” the use of the wishbone offense and former OU quarterback Jack Mildren is often referred to as \"the Godfather of the wishbone\" by University of Oklahoma football fans. In 1971, the Oklahoma Sooners wishbone offense set the all-time NCAA single-season rushing record at 472.4 yards per game, a record which still stands to this day.\n\nThe wishbone's reliance on execution and discipline, along with its ability to eat up the play clock, make it a favorite of programs that routinely play opponents with superior size and speed, such as the three service academies. Air Force saw tremendous success running the option game out of the wishbone. In 1985, Air Force climbed to #2 in the country, just barely missing the national championship game, under head coach Fisher DeBerry. Army saw success using the wishbone under head coaches Jim Young and Bob Sutton in the 1980s and early 1990s, leading to the school's first four bowl appearances (10–6 win over Michigan State in the 1984 Cherry Bowl; 31–29 win over Illinois in the 1985 Peach Bowl; 29–28 loss to Alabama in the 1988 Sun Bowl; and a 32–29 loss to Auburn in the 1996 Independence Bowl) and the first of the program's two 10-win seasons.\n\nPhil Jack Dawson, then head coach of Westbrook High School in Westbrook, Maine, developed an effective defense against the wishbone offense then in use by Texas, called “backbone defense”. Dawson contacted Ara Parseghian, then head coach of the University of Notre Dame, and convinced him to use it against Texas in the 1971 Cotton Bowl Classic. Notre Dame beat Texas 24-11.\n\nIn the National Football League, during the strike season of 1987, the San Francisco 49ers used the wishbone successfully against the New York Giants to win 41–21. Coach Bill Walsh used the wishbone because of his replacement quarterback's familiarity with a similar formation in college. The Cleveland Browns also utilized the wishbone at the pro level in a 2018 28–16 win over the Atlanta Falcons.\n\nWhile run-based option offenses, including the wishbone, are now used only by a small number of NCAA Division I programs—mainly the service academies and programs influenced by Paul Johnson such as Georgia Tech—wishbone principles still influence college football to this day. The original architects of the pass-oriented Air Raid offense, Mike Leach and Hal Mumme, explicitly employed wishbone principles in the offense's creation. In a 2018 ESPN story, current Navy head coach Ken Niumatalolo noted that modern spread option offenses also conceptually borrow from the wishbone. Some coaches are convinced that the wishbone could still work in the modern college game. One of them is Switzer, who in the aforementioned ESPN piece specifically named 2016 Heisman Trophy winner Lamar Jackson as a quarterback who would be \"perfect in the Wishbone\", adding, \"There's a lot of them [quarterbacks that could run the formation] out there, with the great speed and quickness that can also throw the football. They're out there by the dozens. They're just playing different positions.\" In the same piece, Leach said, \"Nobody has ever truly stopped the Wishbone. There's a point to where people have lost interest in the Wishbone. But nobody ever really successfully stopped it.\"\n\nThe Oklahoma playbook describes the quarterback, the architect behind the Wishbone, as, \"a running back who can throw.\" They must also have an aptitude for the option and the decision making that lies within the play design as well as durability (cannot miss a practice).\n\nThe fullback is required to be able to handle a physical pounding because he is frequently hit without having the ball; he must also be quick with excellent stamina, and be a good blocker.\n\nThe wishbone was designed to run a triple-option with a lead blocker. The purpose of an option is to eliminate one defender without blocking him. Ideally, the defender must make a choice to eliminate one of two offensive players. This is a double option. This option offensive scheme forces a defender to choose one of two offensive players who can advance the ball and then allows the other offensive player to carry the ball, making whatever choice the defender made the \"wrong\" choice. Because of this aspect of the defensive player taking himself out of the play by his choice, the offensive player that would otherwise block that defensive player can now block a different defender, placing severe pressure on the defense to cover the dive, the quarterback run, the pitch or the pass to a receiver.\n\nThe triple-option, then, eliminates two defenders without blocking them. This frees two offensive linemen to block different defenders, usually inside defenders. This isolates the dive key and the pitch key for the QB to \"read\" and should leave only an outside support defender (usually a safety) and the cornerback to cover the End, who is running a deep pass route. As Pepper Rodgers and Homer Smith stated in \"Installing Football's Wishbone T Offense\", \"To run a Triple Option with a lead blocker is the reason for the Wishbone formation.\" It is the \"extra blocker\" concept that drives the success of the wishbone and its derivatives. The cornerback must cover the outside receiver. The support/safety must support the run defense and (usually) covers the pitch back. The defensive end typically attacks the quarterback and a defensive tackle is assigned the fullback dive. These assignments must be made before the play begins and that totals eight defensive players to both sides of the ball.\n\nAs stated above, however, the offense now has linemen that can be released to block other defenders, usually inside. The play is designed to handle five defenders on either side of the ball. Thus, the defender least able to affect the play, the offside cornerback or deep safety, is not blocked by design. The offensive linemen, now free to block inside, can block the first down lineman to the playside and the first linebacker to the playside. Emory Bellard once said, \"If the threat of the fullback can be applied to the defense, the offense is sound.\". Then, the lead back principle takes over. The lead back can block the defensive end or the safety and there is then a one-on-none possibility for the offensive player with the ball. In order to stop this attack, the defense must defeat blocks or flow defenders to the playside.\n\nThis makes the wishbone a \"complete\" offense. The offense expects to get a one-on-none in the running game and a one-on-one in open space with the passing game. The safety, who must support the run and also defend against the pass, is under tremendous pressure in this attack. The basic wishbone triple option play accounts for every defender on the field. Every defender is threatened before the basic play begins. There is an invitation to overplay or compensate on the basic play and overplaying or making a misstep on the basic play leaves the defense open for counters that leave no one to make up for the mistake.\n\nThe wishbone has the quarterback taking the snap from under center, with a fullback close behind him, and two halfbacks (sometimes called \"tailbacks\") further back, one slightly to the left, and the other slightly to the right. The alignment of the four backs makes an inverted Y, or “wishbone”, shape. There is typically one wide receiver and one tight end, but sometimes two wide receivers, or two tight ends.\n\nThe wishbone was designed to facilitate a running, option offense. It allows the quarterback to easily run the triple option to either side of the line. The quarterback first reads the defensive tackle or linebacker who is unblocked. As he reads the tackle/linebacker, he rides the ball in the fullback's gut. If the defensive tackle/linebacker looks to tackle the fullback the quarterback pulls the ball out and runs down the line to his next option read, usually the defensive end/outside linebacker. If the end/linebacker looks to tackle the quarterback, the ball is pitched to the trailing halfback. The lead halfback is a lead blocker usually looking to block the outside defensive player, a safety or corner. The tight end to the option side 'arc' releases to block the safety.\n"}
{"id": "1947171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947171", "title": "Falooda", "text": "Falooda\n\nFalooda is a South Asian cold dessert. Traditionally it is made from mixing rose syrup, vermicelli, sweet basil seeds with milk, often served with ice cream. The vermicelli used for preparing falooda is made from wheat, arrowroot, cornstarch, or sago.\n\nThe foundation of falooda goes back to Iran (Persia), where a similar dessert, faloodeh, was popular. The dessert came to Medieval India with the many Muslim merchants and dynasties that settled in the Indian subcontinent in the 16th to 18th century. The present form of falooda was developed in the Mughal Empire and spread with its conquests. Muslim rulers who succeeded from the Mughals patronized the dessert with their own adaptations, specifically in Hyderabad Deccan and the Carnatic areas of present-day India. This dessert is now a major part of Pakistani and Bangladeshi culture, specially served on Islamic holidays, weddings and other occasions. It is also a well known part of Sri Lankan modern culture.\n\nIn idiomatic Hindustani, \"falooda\" is sometimes used as a reference to something that has been shredded, which is an allusion to the vermicelli noodles. For example, someone who falls into disrepute might say that his or her \"izzat\" (honour) has been turned to \"falooda\" (इज़्ज़त का फ़लूदा, عزت کا فالودہ, \"izzat ka falooda\"), which is roughly equivalent to saying \"my reputation is shot.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947172", "title": "Jules Beni", "text": "Jules Beni\n\nJules Beni (died 1861) was a western outlaw who robbed stagecoaches in the Colorado Territory. \n\nBeni was involved in illegal activities linked to his trading post near Lodgepole Creek, Colorado, which was called by one Eastern journalist the \"\"wickedest city on the plains\".\" By the end of the decade the city had grown rapidly with the addition of a stagecoach station, which was eventually named Julesburg by the townspeople in honor of Beni. \n\nHowever upon Beni's appointment as manager of the station the stagecoach lines were robbed constantly. As the gang usually targeted specific stages carrying money and other valuable cargo, Beni soon was suspected of involvement and eventually replaced by gunman Jack Slade.\nBeni's involvement, which by then was obvious, led to arguments between Beni and Slade, eventually leading to a gunfight between the two, as Beni ambushed Slade severely wounding him with a shotgun blast. Slade recovered from his wounds however and Beni, who was arrested and awaiting trial, was released after promising to leave the city. Beni returned a year later where he was killed by Slade, who by his account claimed Beni had made another attempt on his life, and left him tied to a fence post, shot several times and his ears cut off.\nSlade was said to have kept the ears as souvenirs, using one of the ears as a watch fob and selling the other for drinking money. \n\nPaul Newlan played Beni, and Gregg Palmer portrayed Slade in a 1955 episode of the syndicated television series \"Stories of the Century\", starring and narrated by Jim Davis. Elaine Riley appeared as Slade's wife, Maria Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947181", "title": "Hardcore Homecoming", "text": "Hardcore Homecoming\n\nHardcore Homecoming was a series of professional wrestling events which were advertised as a reunion of talent from the defunct Extreme Championship Wrestling promotion. The tour was booked and promoted by Cody Michaels, Shane Douglas (a former ECW World Heavyweight Champion) and Jeremy Borash in 2005. The event footage was released on DVD with a companion documentary of ECW's history called \"Forever Hardcore\".\n\nThe inaugural Hardcore Homecoming event was held from 8:00pm to 11:55pm on June 10, 2005 at the Alhambra Arena, formerly known unofficially as the ECW Arena, in South Philadelphia; this was two days before the WWE produced/promoted ECW One Night Stand 2005 reunion show that was held in New York City. The show was preceded by a fan tailgate party in front of the former ECW Arena, with several wrestlers in attendance. This was reminiscent of territorial wrestling in the 1980s, when many independent promotions would hold barbecues before and after the event.\n\nNone of the former ECW performers under contract to WWE appeared at the event (nor the latter three events which soon followed), although Mick Foley, a retired worker who wasn't under contract to WWE at the time, made an unannounced appearance. Former ECW ring announcers Bob Artese (referred to in the DVD's on-screen graphics as \"Bob Ortiz\") and Stephen DeAngelis worked the event, as did former ECW referees John Finnegan, Mike Kehner and John \"Pee Wee\" Moore and former ECW timekeeper Rocco Musciano.\n\nFollowing the success of the inaugural event, Hardcore Homecoming launched an \"Extreme Reunion Tour\" in the month of September. Originally, the tour was supposed to produce three shows, but the September 17 show in Buffalo was shut down just days before the tour started; it is believed that the promoter was unaware that he needed a promoter's license to run a show in New York. However, the tour did continue with two shows, and would make a return to Philadelphia on November 5 (billed as \"November Reign\") for what Tod Gordon has said will stand as the final Hardcore Homecoming show. However, at an ECW reunion convention, Douglas announced that Hardcore Homecoming would return, first with a 'November to Remember' card in 2009 which would later be renamed \"Legends of the Arena\" and took place on June 27, 2009.\n\n\n\n\n\"Forever Hardcore\" is a professional wrestling documentary that interviews wrestlers who participated on June 10, 2005 Hardcore Homecoming show. It was produced by Big Vision Entertainment and TNA booker Jeremy Borash and can be seen as a counterpoint to the WWE documentary \"The Rise and Fall of ECW\".\n\nIt is particularly noteworthy for the interviews with Shane Douglas, Sandman, and Raven, wrestlers who were integral to the history of ECW but who were not featured on \"The Rise and Fall of ECW\" because they weren't under contract to WWE. It also featured another ECW alumnus Sabu in what was at the time a rare speaking role. Also, in the film, New Jack admits to attempting to kill Vic Grimes in the rematch to their notorious scaffold match.\n\nThe two disc set also includes bonus matches from former ECW wrestlers who competed in the now-defunct XPW. It was also released on April 30, 2007 for sale in Europe on region 2 DVD.\n\nUnlike One Night Stand 2005, the June 10, 2005 Hardcore Homecoming event was not broadcast on pay-per-view. A two-disc DVD set of the show was released in August 2005 through the promotion's website, and Big Vision Entertainment later released a \"Platinum Edition\" of the event commercially, coinciding with the commercial release of \"Forever Hardcore\". The broadcast was released in Europe on Region 2 DVD on April 30, 2007. Joey Styles was present at the event and provided play-by-play for the DVD release.\n\nThe second (and final) Philadelphia show from November 2005 was released in early 2006, with a Platinum Edition of it released by Big Vision Entertainment in May 2006. Buck Woodward and Eric Gargiulo were both present at the November 5, 2005 event and provided play-by-play and color commentary for the show's webcast and DVD release. The Platinum Edition does not feature the Sabu/Funk vs. Team 3D match, as Team 3D's contract with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling prohibits them from appearing on non-TNA video releases. However, the Platinum Edition does feature many bonus matches from independent shows in the early 1990s, XPW and matches from the second show on Hardcore Homecoming's reunion tour. A bootleg edition of this event featuring the Sabu/Funk vs. Team 3D match can be purchased from RF Video and Highspots.com.\n\nFootage of both shows from the Reunion tour were released later in 2005, as the entire Cleveland show was released through the promotion's website, as well as through former ECW videographer RF Video. Despite being advertised for future release, the Monaca show has yet to be released in its entirety. However, 4 of the 6 matches from the show were released as bonus features on the commercially released 'November Reign' DVD, with the Dog-Collar and Stairway to Hell matches being omitted from inclusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947214", "title": "Bodger &amp; Badger", "text": "Bodger &amp; Badger\n\nBodger and Badger was a BBC children's comedy programme written by Andy Cunningham, first broadcast in 1989. It starred Cunningham as handyman Simon Bodger and his talking badger companion. The programme was spawned from some appearances the double act made in 1988 as part of the Saturday morning BBC1 children's programme On the Waterfront.\n\nThe programme followed the exploits of Simon Bodger and his puppet companion, Badger, a badly-behaved badger with a proclivity for mashed potato. The first four series focused on Bodger's jobs as a handyman and his attempts to hide Badger from his superiors. Series 1 was set at Troff's Nosherama, a café where Bodger worked as a cook. Series 2 and 3 were set at Letsby Avenue Junior School. Series 4 was set at Chessington World of Adventures, a real theme park in Surrey.\n\nFrom series 5, the character Mousey was introduced, a puppeted mouse with a fondness for cheese. The show was now set at Bodger's rented home and later his B&B hotel. Series 5-7 rarely mentioned Bodger's employment, suggesting he was now unemployed. The later series still focused on Bodger's attempts to hide Badger from figures of authority, his landlady from Series 5-7 and the tourist information officer in series 9. These later episodes increased the slapstick humour with prominent comic sound effects and incidental music.\n\nThe programme had a memorable theme song sung by children. The music was composed by Peter Gosling and the lyrics written by Andy Cunningham. There were a number of different edits of the song used over the years, with the full version used on the end credits of some episodes from 1989 to 1991.\n\n\nIt is not known for certain how Bodger originally met Badger although the opening titles for the first three series suggest that they met when Bodger was purchasing a ticket to make a journey on a London Underground train and Badger (when a fully grown adult Badger) stole the ticket, only to meet him again on the train. In this sequence, Bodger first expresses dismissal of the event only to look puzzled by what has just happened a moment later. A later episode (after those titles stopped being used), however, suggests that Simon Bodger started looking after Badger when he was a badger cub.\n\nThere were several different Badger puppets used throughout the series - all looked very similar bar their ear sizes and the width of the two stripes down Badger's face and snout. The distance between Badger's eyes also varied throughout the show's run and the beret on the series one Badger puppet wasn't very flexible. In all other series it had more flexibility so it could swing round as Badger moved and talked. Badger's clothes changed regularly, but this was designed as a feature of the puppets. The puppet's eyes themselves also changed - always googly eyes around two to three inches in diameter with pupils varying in size but around an inch in diameter. On some puppets the pupils could reach the bottoms of the eyes, in others, the pupils swing about in a \"cradle\" in the middle of the eyes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSeries 1 featured Bodger and Badger working in Troff's Nosherama, a run-down café with pretensions to being a restaurant. While Bodger worked in the kitchens as a chef, both he and Badger made friends with the waitress, Mavis. Troff's Nosherama was run by Mr Troff who was very arrogant, tight-fisted and didn't like to admit when he was wrong. Troff had no idea of Badger's presence until the end of the last episode in the series.\n\nIt was not known during production whether another series was to be recommissioned, hence the last episode of this series is titled \"The Final Episode\".\n\nThe closing titles of this series at first featured specially-shot clips of the cast (in character) then a specially-shot clip of Badger over the technical crew credits. This changed gradually through the series, slowly incorporating repeated clips of cast members (in character) from earlier in the episode, although these were occasionally interspersed with the specially-shot clips, with the latter gradually being phased out. The specially-shot clip of Badger over the technical crew credits remained, however.\n\nAll transmission data is taken from the BBC Genome project.\n\nThis series was repeated on 8 consecutive Tuesdays from 13 February to 3 April 1990 on BBC1 at 3:50pm.\n\nSeries 2 and 3 featured Bodger and Badger working at Letsby Avenue junior school; Simon worked as the caretaker, Badger made friends with the school children and crawled around the air vents - a method of transport he found most useful to keep hidden from the school's teaching staff. Letsby Avenue's headmistress in this series was the overweight and nasty Mrs Trout, there was also the friendly and ditsy deputy head Miss Moon.\n\nThis series was the first to be broadcast in NICAM stereo sound.\n\nAll transmission data is taken from the BBC Genome project.\n\nThis series was first repeated on Mondays from 6 to 27 April 1992 except the bank holiday 20 April. It then switched to Thursdays on 30 April and 7 May 1992. It then began Monday and Thursday repeats from Monday 11th to Thursday 21 May 1992, before moving again to three consecutive Mondays 1 to 15 June 1992. All except the final episode were repeated on BBC1 at 3:50pm. The final episode was repeated on BBC2 in the same timeslot, owing to sports coverage on BBC1. This was the first time Bodger and Badger had been broadcast on BBC2.\n\nSeries 3 is still set in Letsby Avenue junior school, but Mrs Trout was fired halfway through the series and Miss Moon became the new temporary headmistress until Mrs Bogart (Mrs Trout's sister) took over as headmistress, when Mrs Trout became a school governor. Like the previous series, Badger's presence was knowledge to everyone in the school except the school teaching staff. From this series, the closing credits were edited down to contain only one verse of the theme song. This practice of edited down credits was to continue until the end of the series, with new surrounding graphics for series 9. The repeats of clips featuring characters for the actor credits continued, however, the specially-shot clip of Badger over the technical crew credits was gone, the number of credited technical crew roles having been dramatically reduced, so this portion of the end credits consisted entirely of random clips from earlier in the episode (in chronological order).\n\nTransmission information is taken from the BBC Genome project.\n\nThe first ten episodes of this 12 episode series were repeated on consecutive Tuesdays from 6 April to 8 June 1993 at 4:05pm on BBC1. The repeat run was not completed owing to shortening of the afternoon CBBC strand in subsequent weeks for Wimbledon and other various sporting events and there being no available slots in the weeks after those.\n\nSeries 4 featured Bodger and Badger working at Chessington World of Adventures, a theme park in Surrey. Bodger was the caretaker there, and Badger made friends with a girl called Holly who frequently visited the theme park. Owing to her mother being a staff member there, Holly was free to visit whenever she liked. Bodger's boss was Mr Beasley, who was nasty and obsessed with rules. Beasley kept trying to catch Badger to try to get Bodger chucked out.\n\nSeries 4's episodes were cut down to 10 minutes, instead of 15. This is the least-remembered series of all. It is also the hardest to obtain copies of, there are no known copies uploaded to the internet at the time of typing this article. This series was repeated on Mondays and Tuesdays, with an occasional gap of one week, from March to June 1996, commencing the week following the end of the original transmission of series 6. The opening titles to this series and the remaining series were edited short, so that by this point, the full verse of the theme song is not heard in both opening and closing titles (instead concentrating on one verse each). The opening titles now only contain clips from episodes in the series, with no material specially shot for the opening titles. The practice of having clips from earlier in the episode of actors appearing in character over their credits in the closing credits sequence was gone, with random clips from the episode appearing in chronological order throughout the closing credits sequence. This would remain the normal fashion of episode credits for the series until the end (with a surrounding graphics change for series 9).\n\nAll transmission data is taken from the BBC Genome project.\n\nSeries 5 to 7 featured Bodger and Badger living in a rented bedsit flat (Exterior scenes were filmed at No. 78 Grove Avenue, Hanwell in London). This was the beginning of the show's most popular and best-remembered period, series 5–7. Badger met his new friend Mousey in Series 5, a mouse who lived under the floorboards. She became a permanent fixture of the programme from that point onwards. Just as Bodger tries to keep Badger's presence hidden from figures of authority, Badger in turn kept Mousey's presence a secret from Bodger, because Bodger tried to get rid of Mousey in the first episode of Series 5 by setting traps.\n\nThese episodes reverted to the 15 minute format.\n\nAll transmission data was obtained from the BBC Genome project.\n\nFrom this series onwards, no repeat transmission data will be provided on this article, as the show's success beginning with this series meant that the show would be repeated much more regularly from this point onwards than it previously had been, leading to many more repeat dates for each individual episode.\n\nBodger, Badger and Mousey are still living at the same flat as featured in series 5. This series mainly featured the pair having problems with their new landlady, Mrs Dribelle, and Elton her sidekick who did all her dirty work. Mrs Dribelle did not allow her tenants to keep animals in her properties, so Bodger always had to hide Badger whenever she came to the flat. In between the transmissions of series 6 and 7, on Friday 28 June 1996 on BBC2, the characters of Bodger and Badger were special guests in an episode of CBBC's gameshow \"To Me, To You\", presented by the Chuckle Brothers.\n\nAll transmission data was obtained from the BBC Genome project.\n\nBodger, Badger and Mousey were still living in the same flat as in series 5 and 6. After series 6, though, series 7 returned to the format of more everyday adventures and various people moved into the flat upstairs, including a slimy trickster called Mr Smart and Mrs Dribelle's niece, Vicky. Mrs Dribelle herself lived in the upstairs flat temporarily while her house was renovated. Some of the sound effects used are shared from the Sonic the Hedgehog games. This was the longest-running series, running for 6 months with a clip show halfway through the series and another at the end.\n\nDuring this series, on Friday 14 March 1997 (Comic Relief day 1997), Bodger and Badger were special guests in a special Comic Relief-themed episode of the CBBC game show \"The Friday Zone\", entitled \"The Red Nose Zone\".\n\nAll transmission data is taken from the BBC Genome project.\n\nSeries 8 and 9 featured Bodger and Badger running a Bed & Breakfast hotel in the fictional seaside town of Puddleford (location filming for series 8 and 9 took place around Brighton). Various guests stayed at the hotel over the course of the two series and again Bodger kept Badger's presence a secret from all of them. Guests included two Spanish flamenco dancers, Miss Peake (a bad-tempered school teacher), Mr Tucknott (a dim-witted bank manager), the bubbly Mrs Bobbins, Miss Piper (a mad old woman) and Mr Wilson (a pathetic trainee bank manager). In Series 8 the characters of Millie the Milkwoman and China the dog were introduced, who featured in the show until the very end. Millie was friends with Bodger and knew about Badger, as he was friends with her dog, China. Series 8 also featured the return of Mr Smart, as he ran the B&B next door to Bodger's. Smart never seemed to have any guests staying at his hotel and was always trying to steal Bodger's. This was the first series to use the 1997 BBC branding and the last series to use the cream-coloured background for its title card and end credits.\n\nAll transmission data is taken from the BBC Genome project.\n\nSeries 9 continued with the setting of series 8, with Bodger still running his hotel with Badger and (unwittingly) Mousey in tow. In this series the character of Mrs Melly was introduced, the bossy tourist information officer who stopped people from having fun on the beach outside her office. She hated Bodger and refused to recommend his B&B to tourists although she was kind to him in one episode - \"Hundreds And Thousands\". The opening titles changed this series and no longer featured the Bodger & Badger logo.\n\nAndy Cunningham revealed in an interview for a book that Bodger and Badger ended its 10-year run in 1999 when the Head of BBC Children's Programmes - Christopher Pilkington (who had commissioned the show in 1989 and championed it since then) - left his post and the programme was not renewed by his successors - Andy said that he was not surprised by this, but he didn't reveal why. He mentioned that he didn't mind this anyway as he said he was struggling for inspiration for things to do with mashed potato towards the end of the show's run. Reference \n\nAll transmission dates were obtained from the BBC Genome project.\n\nIn 2000 and 2001 all episodes of Bodger and Badger were repeated on archive children's programming strand CBBC on Choice on the BBC Choice digital TV channel. Additionally, they were broadcast on CBeebies in 2002 but then disappeared from schedules until 2005 when the CBBC channel began a repeat of series 6–9. Since 2008 it has not been shown at all.\n\n\"Bodger and Badger\" has enjoyed something of a cult status, particularly among teenagers and young adults who grew up with the programme. It has also found popularity amongst students, tuning into daytime re-runs. As such, it has led to a popular tour of UK universities; 'Mashed Potato Theme Nights' were held at various Universities, including Hull, Aston, Warwick, Bath, Buckinghamshire New and Aberystwyth. A DVD, 'Bodger and Badger: Live', was released on 6 November 2006.\n\nBodger and Badger have also since appeared in other venues, most notably in the kids' field at Glastonbury Festival, where a routine aimed primarily at children is also cleverly seeded with knowing in-jokes about the festival and the people attending it.\n\nIn 2007, two adverts were filmed for instant mashed potoato brand Smash, the first in a planned series of adverts for a new marketing campaign featuring the two characters and playing on Badger's love of mashed potato. However, whilst the first two adverts were completed and shown at trade fairs, as well as some industry literature featuring the characters released, the ad campaign was ultimately dropped and never aired, due to the BBC still owning the rights to the \"Bodger and Badger\" name and concept, which would conflict with the BBC's obligation to not use and of its programmes or stars to promote commercial properties.\n\nAndy Cunningham died of duodenal cancer on 5 June 2017, aged 67.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947226", "title": "The Monster Squad", "text": "The Monster Squad\n\nThe Monster Squad is a 1987 American comedy horror film directed by Fred Dekker (who also wrote and directed \"Night of the Creeps\") and written by Shane Black and Dekker, who met as classmates at UCLA. Peter Hyams was one of the executive producers. It was released by TriStar Pictures on August 14, 1987. The film features the Universal Monsters (re-imagined by a team of special effects artists, including Stan Winston), led by Count Dracula. They, in turn, combat a group of savvy kids out to keep them from controlling the world.\n\nWhile not being a major success during its theatrical run and receiving mixed reviews from critics, the film has gained a positive reception from audiences and has become a cult classic in the years since its release.\n\nThe Monster Squad is a club of pre-teenagers who idolize classic monster-movies and their non-human stars. They hold meetings at a tree-clubhouse in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Club leader Sean Crenshaw (Andre Gower), whose younger sister, Phoebe (Ashley Bank), desperately wants to join the club, is given the diary of legendary monster hunter Dr. Abraham Van Helsing (Jack Gwillim), but his excitement abates when he finds it is written in German. Sean and the rest of the Monster Squad—his friends Patrick Rhodes (Robby Kiger), Horace (Brent Chalem) and Rudy (Ryan Lambert) -- go to visit an elderly man, known as the \"Scary German Guy\" (Leonardo Cimino), actually a kind gentleman and a former concentration camp prisoner, to translate the diary.\n\nThe diary describes, in great detail, an amulet that is composed of concentrated good. One day out of every century, as the forces of good and evil reach a balance, the otherwise indestructible amulet becomes vulnerable to destruction. With the next day of balance happening within a few days, at the stroke of midnight, the kids realize they must gain possession of the amulet and use it — with an incantation from Van Helsing's diary — to open a wormhole in the universe and cast the monsters into Limbo. As shown in the film's prelude, Van Helsing had unsuccessfully attempted this one hundred years ago in order to defeat his old adversary Count Dracula (Duncan Regehr); his apprentices then emigrated to the United States to hide the amulet, where it was out of Dracula's immediate reach.\n\nNevertheless, Dracula seeks to obtain the amulet so that he can take control of the world and plunge it into darkness. To this end, he assembles several of his most dangerous and monstrous allies: The Mummy (Michael MacKay), The Gill-man (Tom Woodruff Jr.), The Wolf Man (Carl Thibault), and in addition, three school girls (Mary Albee, Joan-Carrol Baron, and Julie Merrill) whom the Count transforms into his vampiric consorts. Dracula then steals a crate from a B-25 Mitchell in flight, containing Frankenstein's monster (Tom Noonan), thus completing his army. However, Frankenstein's monster is reluctant to aid Dracula, and wanders into the forest where he encounters Phoebe. Rather than being afraid, she shows him the kindness he has always sought, and they become friends. After Phoebe proves to the Monster Squad that Frankenstein's monster is not evil, he chooses to help the boys instead of Dracula. The Wolfman, when reverting to human form (Jonathan Gries), is a recalcitrant follower of Dracula, and has been making calls to the police about the forthcoming carnage, which are dismissed as prank calls.\n\nThe amulet is buried in a stone room beneath a house that Dracula and the other monsters now occupy and where Van Helsing's diary was found. The secret room is littered with wards which prevent the monsters from taking it. The Monster Squad break into the house and acquire the amulet and narrowly escape Dracula's grasp. They confer with The Scary German Guy who informs them that the incantation must be read by a female virgin. As midnight approaches, the Squad makes their way to a local cathedral to make their last stand. Meanwhile, Dracula destroys their clubhouse with dynamite, drawing the attention of Sean's father, Police Detective Del (Stephen Macht), who has been charged with investigating the strange occurrences in town (as caused by Dracula's cohorts), but remains quite skeptical about their supernatural causes until he sees Dracula in person.\n\nUnfortunately, the doors to the cathedral are locked, so the incantation must be read on the stoop, leaving the Squad vulnerable. They enlist Patrick's beautiful elder sister Lisa (Lisa Fuller) to help them, as she's the only virgin they know. However, the incantation fails since Lisa is actually not a virgin anymore. As the monsters close in, the Squad deduces that Phoebe must complete the task of opening the portal, and the German Guy attempts to help her read the incantation as the rest of the Squad fends off the monsters.\n\nIn the ensuing battle, Dracula's consorts, the Mummy, the Gill-man, and the Wolfman are defeated. Dracula arrives to destroy the amulet when Frankenstein's monster intervenes, impaling him on a wrought-iron cross. Phoebe finishes the incantation, opening the portal which begins to consume the bodies of the monsters. Dracula, still alive, attempts to drag Sean in with him. Sean impales Dracula with a wooden stake as Patrick grabs Sean before he can be sucked into the portal; then Van Helsing appears, having briefly escaped from Limbo gives a thumbs up to Sean on a job well done, and pulls Dracula to his doom. As Frankenstein's monster is drawn into the portal, Phoebe holds onto him and pleads for him to stay. Knowing he doesn't belong on Earth, Frankenstein's monster lets go of Phoebe's hand, but accepts her gift of a stuffed animal to remember her by. The portal then closes, ensuring the world's safety.\n\nIn the aftermath, the United States Army arrives on the scene, having received a letter from Squad member Eugene (Michael Faustino) earlier on asking for their help against the monsters. When the confused General fails to make sense of the situation, Sean steps forward and presents the man with his business card, identifying himself and his friends as \"The Monster Squad\".\n\nThough the film was a financial failure on its initial release, it subsequently developed a cult following. Rotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 64% of 25 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating was 5.96/10. Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that it is \"fun for the kid in all of us\". Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" called it \"a feature-length commercial for a joke store that sells not-great, rubber monster masks\".\n\nThe film was first released by Vestron Video in 1988. It was the film's only VHS release.\n\nA 20th Anniversary Reunion of \"The Monster Squad\" was held with cast members and Director Fred Dekker in attendance in April 2006 in Austin, Texas at the Alamo Drafthouse. This reunion was put together by the staff at \"Ain't It Cool News\", who were longtime fans of the film and on a whim decided to contact and try to connect the cast for a special screening. Two shows were held at the theatre; both sold out with lines formed around the block; some audience members flew from as far as California to watch the film. It was at this screening that Dekker had urged any interested fans to write the copyright holders via snail-mail. \"Ain't It Cool News\" also broke the news of the DVD release in January, 2007. Michael Felsher of Red Shirt Pictures approached Lionsgate Studios to produce and release the 20th anniversary edition.\n\n\"The Monster Squad\" two-disc 20th anniversary special edition DVD was released by Lionsgate on July 24, 2007, and contains a wide range of special features including a 5-part 90 minute retrospective documentary, 2 audio commentaries, deleted scenes, the theatrical trailer, a TV spot, animated storyboards, and more. In 2007 a soundtrack album was made available from the Intrada label; La-La Land Records issued one in 2015 with additional material, including the Michael Sembello-produced songs.\n\nThe Alamo Drafthouse held two sold-out screenings of \"The Monster Squad\" on January 9, 2010 with stars Andre Gower, Ryan Lambert, and Jon Gries along with writer Shane Black and director Fred Dekker all in attendance. The screenings were celebrated with a limited edition poster by artist Tyler Stout.\n\nThe special edition DVD also makes a few references to the death of Brent Chalem, who died of pneumonia in 1997. Chalem played the character Horace.\n\nLionsgate released a region-free Blu-ray version of the film on November 24, 2009, which contains the same extras as the above-mentioned DVD. This edition is now out of print. On February 19, 2013, Olive Films released a region A locked Blu-ray, which does not include any extras. It was available via direct streaming on Hulu in October, 2017.\n\nIn 2018, Gower directed and co-produced \"Wolfman's Got Nards\", a documentary that explored the film's impact over 30 years and how it had gone from a cult to a classic. Henry McComas is the other co-producer of the documentary, which was distributed by Pilgrim Media Group in cooperation with Flitterpiper Entertainment and 1620 Media Group. It earned honors as an official selection for a number of film festivals including Cinepocalypse and Salem Horror Fest.\n\nIn 2008, Rob Cohen, who served as a producer on the original film, said that the rights to the film were back with Paramount and there were plans to remake the film however he had no desire to direct it. In 2010, it was announced that Michael Bay's Platinum Dunes had officially signed on to produce the film with Cohen now confirmed to direct and Mark and Brian Gunn writing the screenplay. The announcement of a remake and Platinum Dunes involvement was not met with much positive reaction from fans of the original. In 2014, Platinum Dunes producers Brad Fuller and Andrew Form confirmed that the remake was no longer happening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947238", "title": "David Bradby", "text": "David Bradby\n\nDavid Bradby (27 February 1942 – 17 January 2011) was a British drama and theatre academic with particular research interests in French theatre, Modernist / Postmodernist theatre, the role of the director and the Theatre of the Absurd. He wrote extensively on the theatre of Samuel Beckett, Roger Planchon, Jacques Lecoq, Arthur Adamov among many others. He also translated several works, principally by Michel Vinaver, Jacques Lecoq and Bernard-Marie Koltès.\n\nBorn in Kollupitiya in Colombo, Sri Lanka, where his father was principal of a teacher-training college, Bradby was educated at Rugby School in Rugby, England, where \"he developed a passion for directing plays, taking over the production of light comedy from his English master\". He originally studied Modern Languages at Trinity College, Oxford, but started to develop an interest in the theatre. During his time as a language assistant in Lyon, Bradby became a bit-part actor in Roger Planchon's theatre company.\n\nBradby's subsequent education saw him taking a postgraduate teaching course at the University of Bristol, and then a PhD on the playwright Arthur Adamov at the University of Glasgow.\n\nHis academic career included the founding of the Department of Drama at the University of Kent in 1970, as well as work with the British Council in Nigeria. He developed the first colloquium on popular film and theatre, featuring contributions from the British theatre director Max Stafford-Clark. Bradby was appointed head of the Department of Drama at the University of Caen, Normandy, before moving to Royal Holloway, University of London in 1988, where he also took the position of department head. He retired in Summer 2007.\n\nBradby edited the Cambridge University Press \"Studies in Modern Drama\" series, as well as the journal \"Contemporary Theatre Review\".\n\nHe was Professor Emeritus of Drama and Theatre at Royal Holloway. He gave many public lectures and broadcasts and was also a consultant and advisor to many productions of works by Jean Genet, Molière, Michel Vinaver and Bernard-Marie Koltès.\n\nIn 1997, Bradby was made a Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres by the French government in recognition of his contribution to the study of French culture.\nBradby had been married to the author Rachel Anderson since 1965. He died aged 68 on 17 January 2011. A celebration of his life and work was held in and around the Department of Drama & Theatre at Royal Holloway on Sunday, 5 June 2011. Awards named after Bradby are given out annually by the Theatre and Performance Research Association and the Standing Conference of University Drama Departments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947244", "title": "Bill Alfonso", "text": "Bill Alfonso\n\nWilliam Matthew \"Bill\" Sierra (born August 11, 1957) is an American former professional wrestling referee and manager better known by his ring name Bill Alfonso. He achieved his greatest success in Extreme Championship Wrestling in the mid-to-late 1990s. He is well known for the whistle that was almost always hanging around his neck, which he blew constantly during his wrestlers' matches.\n\nAlfonso refereed his first match in Texas at the age of 21. He was the official in a chain match between The Sheik and Terry Funk. Shortly thereafter, he took on a regular role as a referee in Championship Wrestling from Florida. He is seen on footage from 1983 as an \"NWA official\" sitting in the conference room as the main event of the first Starrcade between Harley Race and Ric Flair is being announced by Bob Geigel. He then worked in every major American promotion, including World Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation, where he was a referee for The Undertaker and Giant Gonzalez match at Wrestlemania 9.\n\nIn May 1995, he made his debut in Extreme Championship Wrestling as a \"trouble-shooting referee\". Introduced by Shane Douglas, he angered many ECW fans with strict enforcement of the rules and disqualifications of wrestlers for such ECW traditions as using steel chairs as weapons. In this role, he engaged in a feud with ECW founder Tod Gordon that resulted in several wrestling matches.\n\nAlfonso was then stripped of his refereeing duties and took on the role of Taz's manager and helped him on a winning streak that lasted over a year. In the midst of Taz's feud with Sabu, however, Alfonso turned on his charge and aligned with Sabu. In this role, he performed more than the usual duties, as he actually managed Sabu's finances. Rob Van Dam later took on Alfonso as a manager and formed a tag team with Sabu. Alfonso also led Van Dam to the longest ECW World Television Championship reign in the history of ECW. In 1997, Alfonso fought Beulah McGillicutty with this match becoming infamous because Alfonso lost 1/3 of the blood in his body according to Paul Heyman.\n\nAlfonso was at the 2005 ECW One Night Stand managing Sabu and standing in the ring with RVD while RVD delivered a shoot style promo. Alfonso returned at ECW One Night Stand 2006 after Rob Van Dam won the WWE Title, as he celebrated with him and the rest of the then-ECW Roster.\n\nSince the closing of ECW, Alfonso has appeared in several independent promotions. He worked one match in Xtreme Pro Wrestling as a referee. He has also worked in Elite Wrestling Entertainment as a referee and a manager, as well as managing wrestlers in Squared Circle Wrestling and Pro Wrestling Unplugged. In May 2007, he made his first appearance with Women's Extreme Wrestling, where he serves as a manager and as commissioner.\n\nOn August 8, 2010, Alfonso took part in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's ECW reunion show, Hardcore Justice, managing both Rob Van Dam and Sabu during their match against each other. On the following edition of \"TNA Impact!\", the ECW alumni, known collectively as Extreme, Version 2.0 (EV 2.0), were assaulted by A.J. Styles, Kazarian, Robert Roode, James Storm, Douglas Williams and Matt Morgan of Ric Flair's stable, who thought they didn't deserve to be in TNA.\n\nIn October 2002, fellow manager Missy Hyatt sued Alfonso in a case televised on \"Judge Mathis\". She accused Alfonso of damaging her Porsche and was awarded $500.\n\nAlfonso's cousin David Sierra also enjoyed a long career in the ring, including a stint in WCW as Fidel Sierra, where he is remembered for a controversial feud with Hacksaw Jim Duggan. Contrary to popular belief, Alfonso is not related to Mike Awesome with whom he spent time with in ECW. The confusion is thought to have stemmed from the fact that Awesome's real surname was Alfonso.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947247", "title": "Spinifex pigeon", "text": "Spinifex pigeon\n\nThe spinifex pigeon (\"Geophaps plumifera\"), also known as the plumed-pigeon or gannaway pigeon, is one of four endemic Australian bird species within the genus \"Geophaps\". It occurs within a broader group known as bronzewing pigeons. This species is listed under the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List category ‘of least concern’. It most frequently occurs in arid and semi-arid habitats containing hummock-forming grasses of the genera \"Triodia\" and \"Plectrachne\".\n\nJohn Gould described the spinifex pigeon in 1842 and there have been several revisions at both the species and subspecies level. The current taxonomy was determined through a comprehensive examination of twelve variables in 712 specimens from 54 localities. Three subspecies are recognised:\n\n\"Geophaps p.\" subsp. \"plumifera\", is found in the arid areas of north-western and northern Australia, \"Geophaps plumifera\" subsp\". leucogaster\" inhabits central Australia and north-western Queensland, and \"Geophaps plumifera\" subsp. \"ferruginea\", is found in the Pilbara, Western Australia.\n\nThe divergence of the subspecies recognised has been linked to isolation caused by aridity from climatic oscillations during the Pleistocene. It is thought that \"G. p. plumifera\" was originally present in the interior of Australia and much of north and central Australia in a less arid period. Subsequent aridity is thought to have resulted in the isolation of a western group, now recognised as \"G. p\". \"ferruginea\", followed by a later split of a northern group, currently recognised as \"G. p. leucogaster\". The later split thought to have resulted in less divergence.\n\nSubsequent oscillations in climate are thought to have resulted in a degree of hybridisation between the groups with a subsequent split leading to the presence of brown-bellied birds in the western Kimberly and residual genes of brown-bellied birds in the western portion of the central-eastern white-bellied group.\n\nThe spinifex pigeon is a small and compact pigeon, which weighs 80-110 g, has a mean body length of 200 - 235mm, and has their wingspan of 300–350 mm. Males are slightly larger than females, and generally difficult to visually differentiate.<ref name=\"Crome / Shields\"></ref>\n\nThe plumage is distinctively rufous-brown with thin black bars on the wings and back. The forehead, sides of crown and ear coverts are grey and the bill is black. The facial markings are bold and distinctive, a bright red facial mask is bordered by a black supercilium and moustacial stripe. A white band extends from the chin to behind the eye and the throat is black. A white stripe is present on the breast, and the legs and feet are grey. There is no seasonal variation in plumage.\n\nThere is substantial geographical variation in the colour of the plumage on the belly, which is reflected in the separation of the western brown-bellied birds from the other subspecies recognised.\n\nThe spinifex pigeon occurs throughout much of arid and semiarid northern and central Australia. It lives in arid and semi-arid stony habitats on rocky hills and mountainous terrain, gorges, dry rocky creek beds and nearby gibber plains. It occupies environments which often experience extreme heat during the day, extreme cold during the night, high seasonal fluctuations in rainfall, and extended periods of severe drought. This species is most often encountered in habitats containing hummock forming grasses of the Triodia and Plectrachne genera, which are colloquially referred to as ‘spinifex grasses’. These grasses may form extensive areas of grassland in comprise the understorey component of low open savannah and woodlands of Desert Oak (\"Allocasuarina decaisneana\"), Eucalypts and Mulga (\"Acacia aneura\"). Although strong associations with spinifex are reported, in some areas it is rarely sighted in spinifex and prefers other types of sparse grassland.\n\nPresence around urbanised areas is rare, however does occur in natural habitats occupied by humans and is reported to have foraged on food provided to domestic fowl on at least one occasion.\n\nSpinifex pigeons do not travel long distances to water, requiring permanent water in close proximity to foraging areas (withers and Williams). Both natural and man-made water sources are exploited including waterholes and watercourses and stock drinking troughs.\nThis species is considered gregarious and sedentary, restricted to habitats within a few kilometres of permanent supply of surface water. They are most often found in pairs or small groups of between four and twenty birds, however, on a rare occasion, have been recorded in a large flock conservatively estimated to number four hundred birds.\n\nThey are more frequently observed congregating around water sources in small groups for drinking prior to and during the hottest parts of the day around mid-morning and noon.\n\nCongregations of larger groups occur during favourable seasonal conditions, with dispersal during less favourable conditions or when numbers build up in good seasons. Flocks appear to have regular home ranges, travelling to and from foraging and watering points as a group. It is thought that individuals may move between flocks, however the frequency of this is unknown.\n\nOn occasion, this species engages in a spectacular bowing display, where the tail is spread erect like fan, the folded wings are raised and the pupils contract. The shining patches of the secondary feathers flash into view at the same time that the black outer tail feathers become visible. The display is not always directed at other individuals and may simply self-assertive.\n\nThis species also has a head-shaking display that appears as a greeting between pairs and in threat to other individuals. The bird assumes a crouched over position with head lowered and crest flattened and thrusts forward shaking the bill and head.\n\nBreeding occurs throughout the year with highest levels during spring and summer, coinciding with peak rainfall periods and increased supply of food.\n\nCopulation is performed on the ground. The nest is scratched out in a grass-lined depression on stony ground and may be located within sight of other nesting pairs. Two cream coloured eggs are laid and incubated by the female for 16 to 18 days by both the male and female. Observations of captive birds indicate that the young are independent at four to six weeks. Average lifespan for wild birds is not reported in the literature.\n\nLarge populations can form, however birds disperse and numbers decline following extended periods of extreme drought. After rain, when food supplies increase, there is often a slow recovery in numbers due to local breeding.\n\nSpinifex pigeons are unique among many other desert birds in that they are sedentary arid spinifex habitat specialists. They are capable of enduring extreme conditions and the availability of drought-resistant seed plants varies greatly with seasonal conditions, often declining substantially during periods of extended drought.\n\nThey forage on the ground singly, in pairs or small flocks for seeds, vegetable matter and insects, mostly in bare areas between clumps of grasses and occasionally in dry rocky watercourses or dry margins of wetlands.\n\nThe diet is almost entirely made up of the seeds of drought-resistant grasses and herbs, with spinifex perhaps surprisingly not an important food source overall (Frith and baker). Animals and vegetative material contribute to the diet in trace amounts. Spinifex pigeons will also take some foods given by humans, particularly around camping areas.\n\nForaging mostly occurs early in the morning and late in the afternoon during cooler periods of the day in close proximity to water sources.\n\nSpinifex pigeons are weak long distance fliers being more suited to vertical and short horizontal movements, which aid in escape from predators in preferred habitats such as steep hills and gorges.Approached birds are generally bold and may remain still until approached at very close distances. They are a predominantly terrestrial species and rely on running movements and the camouflage provided by their rufous plumage against the desert sand and rocks to escape predators, rather than evasion by flight, and will frequently run away when approached rather than take to the wing.\n\nAt the nest adults have been recorded to respond defensively in captivity and have been recorded to abandon the eggs or hatchlings as a decoy to predators in the wild.\n\nThe spinifex pigeon has a complex repertoire of calls including advertising calls, a display call, contact calls, alarm calls and threat calls (Hanzab). In general calls range from a soft high-pitched coo or cooloo-coo to a deep coo-r-r-r.\n\nSpinifex pigeon inhabit harsh desert environments and must be able to cope with substantial water and heat stress. Their geographic range includes one of the hottest places on earth, Marble Bar Western Australia, where air temperatures exceeding 37.8 °C up to 160 days of the year.\n\nHydration is achieved by drinking and metabolic water production, as water intake from food sources is low and maintenance of positive water balance is crucial due to the importance of evaporative cooling for thermoregulation at high ambient temperatures. Accordingly, spinifex pigeons generally occur is close proximity to permanent water sources.The ability of the spinifex pigeon to withstand high ambient temperatures is a combination of low body heat production, the ability to increase non-evaporative heat loss by hyperthermia and elevated dry thermal conductance, and a relatively high evaporative water loss.\n\nThere are early reports from settlers that the replacement of horse studs with sheep grazing initially resulted in a reduction in the extent of suitable habitats for this species. Other authors suggest, however, that the range of this species is likely to have expanded since European settlement in Australia, due to the installation of permanent stock watering points in areas previously without surface water.\n\nCurrent threats are more likely to include overgrazing by stock and feral animals, inappropriate fire regimes and increase ambient temperatures and reduction in water availability due to climate change.\n\nCurrently the species is listed on the IUCN Red List as a species of least concern and its habitats are protected in several national parks throughout its range including the Tjoritja / West MacDonnell National Park, Watarraka National Park, Purnululu National Park, Kakadu National Park and Diamantina Lakes National Park.\n\nThe crested pigeon and the gannaway pigeon are superficially similar to the spinifex pigeon, as it is the only other Australian pigeon species with an erect crest, however the spinifex pigeon can be easily distinguished by its smaller size, rusty coloured plumage, distinctive facial markings and occurrence in desert habitats. \n"}
{"id": "1947248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947248", "title": "Uruapan International Airport", "text": "Uruapan International Airport\n\nUruapan International Airport , also known as \"Lic. y Gen. Ignacio López Rayón International Airport\", serves the Mexican city of Uruapan, and it is the second-busiest and second-largest international gateway of the Mexican state of Michoacán after Morelia International Airport. It has one terminal. The airport is operated by Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, a federal government-owned corporation.\n\nThe airport sports an asphalt runway 2,400 meters (or 7,874 feet) in length, capable of accommodating aircraft like the Boeing 737 and the Airbus A320. The runway's approach vectors are 20 degrees for the north end of the runway and 200 degrees for the south end. The runway is located at an elevation of 1,603 meters (5,258 feet, or just short of a mile) above sea level.\n\nIn 2018, the airport handled 160,045 passengers, and in 2019 it handled 167,796 passengers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947250", "title": "Lee Kyung-eun", "text": "Lee Kyung-eun\n\nLee Kyung Eun (born ) is a South Korean group rhythmic gymnast. She represents her nation at international competitions. She competed at world championships, including at the 2015 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships.\n"}
{"id": "1947267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947267", "title": "Death of Garry Hoy", "text": "Death of Garry Hoy\n\nGarry Hoy (January 1, 1955 – July 9, 1993) was a lawyer for the law firm of Holden Day Wilson in Toronto who became notorious for the circumstances of his death. In an attempt to prove to a group of prospective articling students that the glass windows of the Toronto-Dominion Centre were unbreakable, He threw himself at a glass wall on the 24th floor. The glass did not break, but the window frame gave way and he fell to his death.\n\nGarry Hoy was a respected corporate and securities law specialist in Toronto. He had also completed an engineering degree before studying law.\n\nWhile giving a tour of the Toronto-Dominion Centre to a group of articling students, Hoy attempted to demonstrate the strength of the structure's window glass by slamming himself into a window. He had apparently performed this stunt many times in the past, having previously bounced harmlessly off the glass. However, in this instance the force of Hoy slamming into the window forced the window from its frame, causing the entire intact window and Hoy to fall from the building. The event occurred in a small conference room adjacent to a boardroom where a reception was being held for new articling students.\n\nStructural engineer Bob Greer was quoted by the \"Toronto Star\" as saying \"I don’t know of any building code in the world that would allow a 160-pound (72.5 kg) man to run up against a glass and withstand it.\" In another interview, the firm's spokesman mentioned that the glass, in fact, did not break, but popped out of its frame, leading to Hoy's fatal plunge.\n\nHoy's death contributed to the closing of Holden Day Wilson in 1996, at the time the largest law firm closure in Canada.\n\nHoy's experience was featured in numerous television shows, including \"MythBusters\" and \"1000 Ways to Die\". It was also recreated on the television show \"Curious And Unusual Deaths\" on Discovery Investigation channel.\n\nFor his unusual death, Hoy was recognized with a Darwin Award in 1996. His unusual death was also re-enacted by Joseph Fiennes in the 2006 movie \"The Darwin Awards\".\n\nThe incident is also recounted in Philip Slayton's \"Bay Street: A Novel\".\n"}
{"id": "1947268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947268", "title": "Morton Deyo", "text": "Morton Deyo\n\nVice Admiral Morton Lyndholm Deyo (1 July 1887 – 10 November 1973) was an officer in the United States Navy, who was a naval gunfire support task force commander of World War II.\n\nBorn on 1 July 1887 in Poughkeepsie, New York, he graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1911, and served over a career of 38 years. His highest Navy rank in active service was Rear Admiral, attaining Vice Admiral at retirement. He was awarded three medals of personal honor, the Distinguished Service Medal (Navy), and the Legion of Merit with Gold Star.\n\nDeyo served in both the Atlantic and Pacific Fleets. In the Atlantic, he commanded the destroyers which provided the first American escort assistance to allied convoys to England just prior to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. He later commanded naval gunfire support at Utah Beach in the Normandy invasion, Task Force 129 at the Bombardment of Cherbourg, as well as during the invasion of Southern France.\n\nWhen transferred to the Pacific, Rear Admiral Deyo assumed command of Cruiser Division 13 (CruDiv 13). He commanded gunfire and covering force for the assault and occupation of Battle of Okinawa. During the battle, he was the last naval commander to form a battle line with battleships as they prepared to intercept the Japanese battleship . At the war's end, he accepted the surrender of Japanese forces at Sasebo, Kyushu and directed the Allied Occupation of Western Japan.\n\nMorton Deyo's career ashore meshed with the seagoing responsibilities he would take on at each stage of his career. Training at the U.S. Naval Academy prepared him in engineering and seamanship. He graduated as a member of the Class of 1911. Most of his academy years were under Superintendent Captain John M. Bowyer at a time of two-year rotations. Deyo then took his first assignment at sea aboard the battleship .\n\nEarly assignments at sea placed Morton Deyo in the Caribbean. \nMorton Deyo was aboard the battleship about the time she participated in coaling-at-sea operations. In the years of his service aboard \"Virginia\", she would take station off Tampico and Vera Cruz, Mexico. Deyo next served aboard the destroyer . In a tour cut short by decommissioning in 1914, \"Duncan\" went to the Caribbean for training, target practice and exercises. In 1914 and 1915, Deyo served aboard the armored cruiser under Captain Edward W. Eberle, commanding. The ship was stationed off of Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, for diplomatic service; Vera Cruz, Mexico; Cap Haitien, Haiti; and returned to Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic, when a crisis recurred there. Deyo's last tour in the Caribbean before marriage and World War I was aboard the destroyer . She sailed to Tampico, Mexico and later supported the U.S. occupation of Vera Cruz. \"Jenkins\" was assigned patrol operations to search for possible German U-boats. Deyo married Maria Ten Eyck Decatur Mayo in 1916.\n\nAs an aide to the Commandant, First Naval District, Boston, 1920–1921, Deyo was a part of an ongoing upgrading of Naval District that would remain in place from 1920 to the outbreak of World War II. The First District absorbed the Second in 1919, and it expanded from a coastal strip to encompass inland states to more nearly correspond to Army districts. The District acquired its own full-time staff, gained new operational functions, and expanded administrative and logistical responsibilities. Proposal for reform of the Naval district regulations were to be revised to embody the lessons of World War I. This is fundamental naval strategy. Mahan had written, \"deficient coast protection reacts unfavorably upon the war fleet, which in all its movements should be free from any responsibility for the mere safety of the ports it quits.\" Deyo's next assignment was as an aide to the U.S. military governor at Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.\n\nService aboard one ship and command of another prepared Deyo for duty ashore in a politically and diplomatically sensitive role. In 1914–1915, Deyo had served on the armored cruiser during service related to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, Vera Cruz, Mexico, and Cape Haitien, Haiti. Capt. Edward W. Eberle, commanding, was active in U.S. attempts to mediate between government and insurgent forces towards a constitutional government with \"observed\" elections. When then Lieutenant Commander Deyo had his first command, of the destroyer , he was attached to the \"Adriatic Detachment\" performing political and diplomatic duties among nations of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire. In 1921–1923, Deyo served on the staff of the military governor closing out the American occupation of Santo Domingo. The military governor at the time was Warren Harding's appointment to fulfill his campaign promise to end the Wilson occupation of the Dominican Republic. Rear Adm. Samuel Robison served from 1921. The occupation officially ended July 1, 1924. \nIn 1923 Deyo was assigned to the staff Battleship Fleet, aboard the battleship .\n\nAs a part of the new full-time staff in the First Naval District, Boston, in 1918, Deyo taught destroyer seamanship. He was assigned the year after Rear Admiral Albert Gleaves, then Commander, Destroyer Force, Atlantic Fleet, became Commander of United States Convoy Operations in the Atlantic in addition to his other duties. He was next transferred to the troopship \"Northern Pacific\" as a part of its regular USN officer complement. World War I's movement of a million men and their supplies was unprecedented. The crews of harbor and pilot boats, inshore scouts and patrol craft, new merchantmen, escorting vessels, all required training. In the First Naval District, Deyo was a part of the destroyer piece.\n\nDeyo was attached to Admiral Samuel Robison's personal staff of ten officers aboard the in 1925–1926. Now a Lieutenant Commander, Deyo was the most junior officer as Flag Lieutenant. The next rung up the ladder was the Assistant Chief of Staff, then Commander Chester W. Nimitz.\n\nFollowing early armored cruiser service in the Caribbean, World War I destroyer service operating in the North Atlantic, and cruiser service crossing the Pacific, Deyo was assigned to a three-year tour teaching seamanship at the Naval Academy, 1926–1929. He was appointed during the tenure of Superintendent Rear Admiral Louis M. Nulton and completed his tour under Rear Admiral Samuel S. Robison with whom he had served in the Dominican Republic. \nHe returned to sea to take command of the destroyer .\n\nHis exemplary promise as a commander at sea resulted in an appointment to the Naval War College staff immediately following his study there. He then returned to sea in 1934 as the Executive Officer aboard the light cruiser .\n\nWith accumulating experience in escort service in the Atlantic, fleet staff service crossing the Pacific, and Asiatic Squadron staff duty for operations and war plans during Japanese expansion, Deyo was prepared for Main Navy assignments from 1939 to 1941 as the Navy's assistant hydographer, then aide to the Secretary of the Navy until war sent him to sea again.\n\nThen a Captain, Deyo was escort commander of Task Unit 4.1.1 and the Commodore of Destroyer Squadron 11. His group was tasked to escort 44 merchant ships ranging from a luxury liner to a rusty ship of the Levant. His pennant and the were the only modern destroyers in the group. The others were \"four-pipers\" with \"outmoded equipment and low fuel capacity\" including the ships of two other squadron commanders. Canadian escorts protected the convoy for the first 350 miles, then the Americans until point \"Momp\" when the British escorted ships to Britain. Deyo then proceeded with the American destroyers to Iceland with three American merchantmen and one Icelandic.\n\nThere was no submarine attack, but the Navy destroyers were inexperienced in their seamanship. They progressed from patrolling only on calm moonlit nights within 1,000 yards of the convoy and staying on station if there was fog, to patrolling 5,000 yards out whatever the sea condition or visibility. U-boat searches were extended to over an hour at a time. Still there was extra work to escorting this convoy. Stragglers, breakdowns and laggards created a ragged formation which was difficult to cordon. The convoy could not sit in the water, so it made numerous course changes to buy time for at-sea overhaul of those falling behind. Nevertheless, when the \"Nigaristan\" sank in high winds and rolling seas, the \"Eberle\" rescued the entire 63-man crew. On return to the U.S., \"Captain Deyo made a number of adversely critical comments in his report\" relative to the demands of anti-submarine warfare, \"leadership, seamanship and marksmanship.\"\n\nOn 6 June 1944, now Rear Admiral Deyo commanded the western Operation Neptune Force \"U\", supporting the landing of the American First Army at Utah and Omaha beaches during the Normandy landings.\n\nDeyo served as Commander, Task Force 129 (CTF 129) during the Bombardment of Cherbourg, and supported General Collins' Army VII Corps in taking Cherbourg, France. The American and British ships dueled port-city shore batteries and surrounding German defenses. The battleship and destroyers , , and were all damaged by enemy fire.\n\nDeyo commanded the naval bombardment for the invasion of Southern France in August 1944 and received Legion of Honour, Officer by the Government of France.\n\nAdmiral Deyo's crowning achievement in the Pacific was command of gunfire and covering force for the assault and occupation of Okinawa. It was for service off Okinawa that he was awarded the Navy Distinguished Service Medal.\n\nRear Admiral Deyo took over Cruiser Division 13 (CruDiv 13) from Rear Admiral Laurance T. DuBose. The Division consisted of four light cruisers: , , , and .\n\nFrom 24 March to 4 May 1945, Task Force 54 under the command of Rear Adm. Deyo commanded battleships, cruisers and destroyers in the bombardment of Kerama Retto and the southeast coast of Okinawa, Japan. \nFollowing the war, he directed the landing of occupation forces in Northern Japan.\n\nMorton Deyo's last duty station, from 1946 to 1949, was as Commandant of the First Naval District, headquartered at the Boston Navy Yard. The First Naval District exercised administrative supervision of all Navy activities in the New England states, except for Connecticut.\n\nWorking out inter-service and inter-department conflicts was a serious goal for the U.S. Navy going into the Cold War. As of September 1945, the qualifications for a district commandant were those of a line officer eligible for command at sea, and the shipyard (specialist) commands were no longer to be held by the same officer. Deyo met the new qualification for District Commandant, and had served at Boston twice before as an instructor and aide to the Commandant during a time of reorganization. Inefficiency from command conflicts were taken under study even before the war ended by the \"Farber Committee\".\n\nThe main feature of reform related to the various types of authority over district activities. The Commandant was to have coordinating \"military command\" over all activities in the district akin to Army districts. The Navy Secretary directed satisfactory relationships. With a background of local relationships, technical expertise, leadership and diplomatic skills, Morton Deyo was the man chosen to make it happen.\n\nHe retired at the end of his tour with a promotion to Vice Admiral. In retirement he lived at Hooke's Cove in Kittery Point, Maine. In 1959 he was elected as an honorary member of the New Hampshire Society of the Cincinnati.\n\nAdmiral Deyo died November 10, 1973 at his home in Kittery Point, Maine.\n\nThe destroyer was the 27th and the first ship to be named to honor Vice Admiral Deyo. She was commissioned on March 22, 1980. The \"Deyo\" was last home-ported in Norfolk, Virginia. Stricken from the Navy list on April 6, 2003, she was sunk as a target on August 25, 2005 in the Atlantic.\n\nMilestones\n\n1887, July 1 Born, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.\n\n1916 Married Maria Ten Eyck Decatur Mayo\n\n1949 Retired from navy as vice admiral\n\n1973, Nov. 10 Died, Portsmouth, N.H. \n\nEarly service\n\n1911 Graduated, United States Naval Academy\n\n1911–1913 Served on (Battleship)\n\n1913–1914 Served on (Destroyer)\n\n1914–1915 Served on (Heavy cruiser)\n\n1915–1916 Served on (Destroyer)\n\n1916–1918 Served on (Destroyer), Ireland, \"Sims' Destroyers\"\n\n1918 Trained destroyer crews, First Naval District, Boston, Mass.\n\n1918–1919 Served on , troop transport, Europe to U.S.\n\n1919 Served on (German ship taken over as transport)\n\nInterwar\n\n1919–1920 Commanding (Destroyer), Adriatic, Mediterranean\n\n1920–1921 Aide to commandant, First Naval District, Boston, Mass.\n\n1921–1923 Aide to military governor, Santo Domingo\n\n1923–1925 Staff, Battleship Fleet, (Flagship)\n\n1925–1926 Staff, U.S. Fleet, (Flagship)\n\n1926–1929 Instructor in seamanship, U.S. Naval Academy\n\n1929–1930 Commanding (Destroyer)\n\n1930–1931 Commanding (Destroyer)\n\n1931–1934 Student, staff, Naval War College, Newport, RI\n\n1934–1936 Executive officer, (Light cruiser)\nPre-war\n\n1936–1939 Operations and war plans, staff, U.S. Asiatic Fleet, (Flag)\n\n1939–1940 Assistant hydrographer, Navy Department, Washington DC\n\n1940–1941 Aide to Secretary of the Navy, Washington DC\n\nAtlantic\n\n1941 Commanding Destroyer Squadron II, Atlantic, first convoy to Iceland\n\n1942 Commanding (Auxiliary transport)\n\n1942 Commanding (Heavy cruiser), Aleutians bombardment\n\n1942–1943 Commanding destroyers, Atlantic Fleet\n\n1944 Commanding Ranger Task Group Atlantic\n\n1944 Commanded bombardment, Normandy and southern France, Atlantic\n\nPacific\n\n1944 Commanded Cruiser Division 13, Task Forces in 3rd and 5th Fleets, Pacific\n\n1945 Commanded Task Force 54, Okinawa campaign, Pacific\n\nPost-war\n\n1945 Commanded Task Forces 55 and 56, surrender, occupation of Japan\n\n1946–1949 Commandant, First Naval District, Boston, Mass.\n\nNovember 10, 1973 Admiral Deyo dies in Kittery Point, Maine\n\n"}
{"id": "1947273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947273", "title": "TheWolfWeb", "text": "TheWolfWeb\n\nTheWolfWeb, also known as TWW or T-dub, is an unofficial message board for North Carolina State University (NCSU), created by Jacob Morgan (CrazyJ). TWW was the prototype for the \"party in college\" message boards, which provide an online community for a number of universities across the country. It was also a source of the codebase for TheCollegeWeb but is not part of that network despite the similarity of all of those sites to TWW. \n\nIt serves as a source of local (Raleigh, NC) news, as frequently posting members of the message board will provide both eyewitness accounts and frequent updates on events in the area, ranging from vehicle accidents to on-campus crime and suicide events. It has also been significant in transmitting many Internet memes through the NCSU student body (notably the terms pwnt, bwn, and FDT). \nOn February 26, 2004, News 14 Carolina, now known as Spectrum News North Carolina, was subject to a prank by members of TheWolfWeb when it was discovered that the system used to report closings and delays for businesses, schools, and churches for inclement weather put submissions on the air without review. Members of the message board exploited this fact to make fictitious business ranging from referencing All Your Base Are Belong To Us to containing lewd or obscene references be listed on the air during the channel's winter weather coverage. After the exploit gained national attention, many news stations, News 14 Carolina included, implemented or enhanced their verification and vetting processes for listing closings and delays as to avoid a repeat of the incident. \n\nOn June 16th 2016, the site went down suddenly and was down for approximately eight hours. When it returned, ownership announced that the site was underwater and could possibly be shut down in a matter of days. Panic set in for the users, who called for the immediate resignation of Tom Dollins, The Wolf Web’s CEO at the time. Dollins resigned two days later, on June 18th, 2016, and then-CFO Henrico Flatchery was promoted to CEO. Flatchery’s vision led The Wolf Web into its current state, in what has been coined by regular users as “the glory days”.\n\nTWW does not yet have a mobile app or mobile interface, but Flatchery has assigned a team of six software developers to the task. The mobile application (“TWW Mobile”) is expected to completed in late-2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947285", "title": "Environmental movement in New Zealand", "text": "Environmental movement in New Zealand\n\nThe environmental movement in New Zealand started in the 1960s, a period of rapid social change. Since then numerous high-profile national campaigns have contested various environmental issues. The environmental movement eventually spawned the Values Party, which was the first political party with a strong focus on environmental issues to contest national elections. The Values Party eventually morphed into the Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand.\n\nA number of commentators consider that the earliest major environmental issue in New Zealand was the national campaign to prevent the raising of the levels of Lakes Manapouri and Te Anau as part of stage two of the development of the Manapouri Power Project. A \"Save Manapouri Campaign\" ran from 1959 through to 1962, involving organisations such as the Forest and Bird Protection Society and the Scenery Preservation Society, resulting in two petitions to parliament and the formation of the Nature Conservation Council, a government advisory body. The \"Save Manapouri Campaign\", which commenced in Invercargill in October 1969, became a national campaign in 1970 with a third petition to parliament, a Cabinet Committee report and a Commission of Inquiry. The Save Manapouri debate lasted until the 1972 general election, when the incoming Kirk administration promised not to raise the levels of either Lakes Manapouri and Te Anau, establishing instead the Guardians of Lakes Manapouri and Te Anau to ensure that both lakes would be operated within their natural levels.\n\nCertainly the Save Manapouri Campaign occurred during a time of heightened international concern for the popular concept of the 'environment', but it was neither the first - nor the last - of a succession of campaigns to preserve aspects of New Zealand's natural heritage dating back to the creation of the first scenic reserves and national parks. Earlier 'scenery preservation' campaigns, such as the Waipoua Forest debate, when the Waipoua Preservation Society, campaigned against the government's plans in 1946 to log the Waipoua Forest, included many recognisable elements of later 'environmental' campaigns - appeals to public opposition to the loss of natural landscapes, petitions and on-site consideration of the potential impacts of logging. What was different by 1969, therefore, was the sophistication of the conservation/environmental debate, which was able to use the new international lexicon of 'environmentalism' to describe those tangible and intangible features of the Manapouri landscape, which were threatened by the power project.\n\nOther major issues have included nuclear energy, preventing native forest logging and halting the growing of GE food crops. Logging protests occurred in Whirinaki, Pureora, and on the West Coast of the South Island.\n\nAs of 2010 the environmental movement is active in many areas, including opposition to new large-scale hydro dams, protecting conservation land from mining and preventing overuse of water resources.\n\nThe largest conservation organisation, formed in 1923, is Forest and Bird. Greenpeace New Zealand carries out advocacy and direct action in and around New Zealand. Environment and Conservation Organisations of Aotearoa New Zealand (ECO) is an umbrella organisation of about 50 environmental organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947303", "title": "List of high schools in Maine", "text": "List of high schools in Maine\n\nThis is a list of high schools in the state of Maine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947309", "title": "List of oldest Major League Baseball players", "text": "List of oldest Major League Baseball players\n\nThis is a list of the oldest Major League Baseball (MLB) players, with their last season in parentheses. Only baseball players who played at least one game when they were older than 45 are included on the list. Active are players in bold type.\n\nPitchers\n\n\nPosition players\n\nNote: Paige, O'Leary, O'Rourke, Jennings, Street, McGuire and Evers each made one token major league appearance years (or even decades) after their careers had otherwise ended. The careers of Altrock, Miñoso and Latham had also effectively ended many years before their final major league appearances, though each were brought back for token appearances several times (spanning several seasons) before their final game. Julio Franco is the oldest position player to appear regularly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947311", "title": "Grim Reaper (Nedor Comics)", "text": "Grim Reaper (Nedor Comics)\n\nGrim Reaper is a fictional character and a superhero. Created by writer/editor Richard E. Hughes He first appeared in \"Fighting Yank\" #7 (Feb 1944), and was quickly promoted to cover feature of \"Wonder Comics\" (Better Publications), beginning with #1 (May 1944). His origin story was told in \"Wonder Comics\" #2.\n\nThe character was revived in the modern age in Tom Strong #11 by Alan Moore and Chris Sprouse. He was killed by The Terror in the Terra Obscura miniseries.\n\nBill Norris is studying at the Sorbonne in Paris, France when the Nazis occupy the city. Intervening in a Nazi harassment of a citizen, Norris is arrested and sent to a concentration camp. He helps an old man, who eventually confides to Norris that he's the leader of the French Underground and knows the location of an important French General, who has to be safely brought to Africa to continue the battle. Fashioning an all black Grim Reaper outfit, Norris, with help from the French citizenry, rescues the General. The Reaper regularly kills his Nazi foes with his bare hands.\n\nHe is, at one point, number one on the Gestapo's wanted list.\n\nThe Grim Reaper is often shown working behind enemy lines in the German underground. The Reaper makes his way to England in \"Wonder Comics\" #4.\n\nIn one adventure, the Reaper brings an armored Nazi super-zeppelin to England and wants nothing more than to go back to the continent. \"The only reward I want is a chance to fight the Nazi beasts again and again... to spread terror among the foulest terrorists the world has ever known! Tremble, you Nazis! The Grim Reaper is coming back!\"\n\nAfter the war ended, Norris returned to America in \"Wonder Comics\" #8 (Oct 1946), and continued his superheroics. He battled Mr. Meek, the Robed Phantom, the Chameleon and the Crying Bandit. His final story was published in \"Wonder Comics\" #17 (April 1948).\n\nThe Grim Reaper, along with other heroes from Nedor Comics, were revived by Alan Moore in his series \"Tom Strong\". This revival set the characters on a parallel world called Terra Obscura, which was also the title of the resulting mini-series.\n\nThis Reaper eventually opposed the goals of the revived Black Terror and was killed, during his own unsuccessful attempt to put an end to the Terror.\n\nThe Grim Reaper has no superhuman powers; but, in the Golden Age, he used guns and a sword to fight Nazis. When revived by ABC, his sword could project electromagnetic blasts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947339", "title": "John Kronus", "text": "John Kronus\n\nGeorge B. Caiazzo (January 13, 1969 – July 18, 2007) was an American professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, John Kronus, and later simply Kronus. Caiazzo worked for Extreme Championship Wrestling, the United States Wrestling Association and Xtreme Pro Wrestling. He was perhaps best known as one-half of the tag team The Eliminators with Perry Saturn.\n\nCaiazzo's father, George Caiazzo, Sr., played football with the New York Giants before suffering an injury.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Caiazzo met professional wrestler Perry Saturn when he began working as a bouncer in a Boston nightclub managed by Saturn. Caiazzo expressed an interest in becoming a wrestler to Saturn, who responded by directing Caiazzo to a professional wrestling school operated by Killer Kowalski. Caiazzo debuted in 1989, briefly wrestling as \"The Eliminator\".\n\nIn the early 1990s, Saturn offered to form a tag team with Caiazzo. The Greek equivalent of the Roman deity Saturn was Cronus, so Saturn chose the ring name \"John Kronus\" for Caiazzo. As Saturn and Kronus were their civilizations' respective harvest deities, Saturn proposed that the tag team be known as \"The Harvesters of Sorrow\". After promoter Jerry Lawler advised Saturn that the significance of the name would not be evident to many fans, Saturn named the team \"The Eliminators\".\n\nThe Eliminators wrestled their first match together at a United States Wrestling Association house show in 1993. They were hired at a starting salary of $40 a week (they later negotiated a 100% pay raise), and shared an apartment with four other wrestlers. On May 2, 1994, The Eliminators defeated Brian Christopher and Eddie Gilbert for the USWA Tag Team Championship. They held the USWA World Tag Team Championship until June 13, 1994, when they were defeated by PG-13.\n\nIn 1994 and 1995, The Eliminators wrestled in Japan for the WAR promotion.\n\nThe Eliminators debuted in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania-based Extreme Championship Wrestling promotion at Gangstas Paradise in September 1995. They were initially brought in to job to the Steiner Brothers but after it became apparent that Steiners were leaving ECW, the Eliminators were booked to win their debut match, a six-man tag team match, which pitted Eliminators with Jason against Taz and Steiner Brothers. ECW promoter Paul Heyman quickly abandoned plans to give them a sadism and masochism character and instead booked them as an unstoppable force in the ECW tag team division. They were managed by Jason. The Eliminators won the ECW Tag Team Championship on three occasions between 1996 and 1997, feuding with teams such as the Dudley Boyz, The Gangstas, The Pitbulls, Sabu and Rob Van Dam and the Steiner Brothers.\n\nOn May 31, 1997, Saturn tore his anterior cruciate ligament during a match. After intense reconstructive surgery, he was given a recovery time of up to a year. Kronus briefly defended the ECW Tag Team Championship single-handedly before losing to the Dudley Boyz. In late 1997, Saturn left ECW for World Championship Wrestling.\n\nKronus competed in the singles division before forming a new tag team, \"The Gangstanators\", with New Jack. The Gangstanators won the ECW Tag Team Championship in 1997. Kronus left ECW in early 1999.\n\nHe joined the California-based Xtreme Pro Wrestling promotion. In 2000, Kronus aligned himself with the \"Black Army\" faction. He remained with XPW until leaving in 2001. During this period, Kronus appeared in the 2000 softcore bondage film \"Violence on Violence\".\n\nKronus also helped develop and promote local Philadelphia, Pennsylvania company Dangerously Intense Wrestling. During his time as champion he feuded with G.O.D.D., Method and The Sickness. Kronus held both the DIW World Heavyweight Title and Inner City Title.\n\nIn 2002, Kronus retired from professional wrestling, relocating to the Lakes Region in Sanbornton, New Hampshire. He temporarily came out of retirement in 2005, making two appearances with the ECW reunion promotion Hardcore Homecoming.\n\nCaiazzo was found dead in his fiancée Brandy Laundry's home in Laconia, New Hampshire on July 18, 2007, several days after undergoing knee surgery. He was 38 years old. Caiazzo died in his sleep. His death was subsequently attributed to heart failure resulting from an enlarged heart. He was survived by his nine-year-old son, Gage Christian Caiazzo. Former tag team partner New Jack was the only ECW alumnus to attend his funeral.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947381", "title": "Art Fleming", "text": "Art Fleming\n\nArthur Fleming Fazzin (May 1, 1924 – April 25, 1995) was an American actor and television host. He is most notable for being the original host of the television game show \"Jeopardy!\", which aired on NBC from 1964 until 1975.\n\nFleming was born in New York City. His parents, William and Marie Fazzin, had immigrated to the United States from Austria. They were a popular dance team in Europe and brought their show to America. Their son Art was a varsity letterman football player at James Monroe High School in New York City, standing 6 feet 4 inches (1.93 m), weighing 220 pounds (100 kg). He later attended Colgate and Cornell universities, starring on the football team, as well as water polo teams at both colleges. Fleming was a World War II veteran who served in the U.S. Navy for three and a half years as the pilot of a patrol bomber in the Atlantic.\n\nAfter leaving the Navy, Fleming became an announcer at a radio station in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. Here, he first shortened his name to \"Art Fleming\". His radio career later took him to Akron, Ohio, and back home to New York. He was the first announcer to deliver the slogan \"Winston tastes good, like a cigarette should\" for Winston cigarettes.\n\nFleming's acting career began at age four, when he starred in a Broadway play. His first television role was as a stunt double for Ralph Bellamy in the detective series \"Man Against Crime\". In 1959 he starred as detective Ken Franklin in the ABC TV series \"International Detective\", credited as Arthur Fleming. He also played attorney Jeremy Pitt in \"The Californians\", an NBC Western set in San Francisco during the gold rush of the 1850s.\n\nFleming also appeared in many television commercials. He was first spotted by Merv Griffin on a commercial for Trans World Airlines. Griffin thought Fleming was \"authoritative, yet warm and interesting\", and Fleming was invited to audition for the role of host for a quiz show Griffin was developing. Fleming (an actor with no prior TV quiz show experience) was initially skeptical, but his agent encouraged him to \"act like a game show host\" at his audition, and Fleming ultimately won the job. The show was \"Jeopardy!\", which Fleming hosted from March 30, 1964, to January 3, 1975, and again from October 2, 1978, to March 2, 1979. Although often described as the \"host\" of the program, announcer Don Pardo's introduction of him announced, \"and here's the star of Jeopardy!, Art Fleming.\" As \"the world's greatest quiz show's\" first host, Fleming earned two Emmy Award nominations. While he was host of \"Jeopardy!\", Fleming never missed a taping.\n\nBecause he hosted a quiz show, and in part because he was an avid reader with multiple college degrees, Fleming earned a reputation as being a storehouse of trivia. While appearing as a guest star on \"Hollywood Squares\" (another NBC game show in the 1960s and 1970s), Fleming was once selected as the \"secret square\". His question was, \"In 1938, who won the Wimbledon women's tennis championship?\" Fleming picked Helen Wills Moody, one of the three choices read to him. The female contestant (who had selected Fleming) turned to \"Hollywood Squares\" MC Peter Marshall, saying, \"Art Fleming would never lie! I agree!\" He was right, and the contestant won $11,000. Fleming later said he did not know a thing about tennis and had guessed the answer. He hoped the contestant would disagree, thinking he was wrong.\n\nThroughout his career, Fleming starred in about 5,000 episodes of television programs and 48 motion pictures. After \"Jeopardy!'s\" first cancellation in 1975, Fleming returned to acting. In 1977 he played the role of W. Averell Harriman in the movie \"MacArthur\" starring Gregory Peck, and appeared in the comedy film \"American Raspberry\", and also appeared in episodes of \"Starsky and Hutch\", \"\", and the 1976 TV miniseries \"The Moneychangers\".\n\nFleming also hosted a radio version of \"College Bowl\" for CBS Radio from 1979 to 1982. He hosted the NBC radio weekend magazine \"Monitor\" during 1972. Fleming reprised his role as host of \"Jeopardy!\" in the 1982 movie \"\" and in \"Weird Al\" Yankovic's music video \"I Lost on Jeopardy\". Fleming was also often called upon to host mock versions of \"Jeopardy!\" at trade shows and conventions.\n\nFleming was asked to reprise his role as \"Jeopardy!\" host when Merv Griffin began developing a revival of the show in 1983. He declined, later stating in 1989 that he did not like the direction the show had gone in moving the show to Hollywood (being partial to his native New York, he felt that the Hollywood setting made the show dumber and less realistic). As a result, Alex Trebek (a personal friend of Fleming's) took the position instead and has hosted the program ever since. Fleming and the staff of the modern \"Jeopardy!\" had a somewhat public feud over the nature of the show's clues, as Fleming believed that the writers were inserting hints into the clues to make the correct question seem obvious and easy to guess.\n\nFrom 1979 to 1992, Fleming hosted a daily radio talk show on KMOX in St. Louis, which continued until his retirement. On Sunday evenings, he occasionally co-hosted \"Trivia Spectacular\" with David Strauss, a St. Louis schoolteacher. He also hosted the syndicated radio program \"When Radio Was\".\n\nMr. Fleming was first married to actress Peggy Ann Ellis, who worked on \"The Merv Griffin Show\". They had a daughter, Jan Marie Hanna and were divorced after five years. (Fleming denied having a child in a 1974 interview, conducted after his first divorce.) Despite insisting he would never marry again after his first divorce, Fleming married Becky Lynn in a private ceremony at Norman Vincent Peale's home. He soon adopted Becky's two children from a prior marriage. Together they had five grandchildren. In 1992, Fleming retired and the family moved to Crystal River, Florida. He remained active in charity work: he hosted fundraising videos for the Citrus County United Way and became involved with the Citrus County Abuse Shelter Association, Inc. (where Becky served as director). He also hosted a syndicated television program, called \"Senior America\", which showcased seniors and senior activities.\n\nFleming died of pancreatic cancer at his home on April 25, 1995, six days before his 71st birthday. His ashes were scattered at sea.\n"}
{"id": "1947406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947406", "title": "Loch Eil", "text": "Loch Eil\n\nLoch Eil (Scottish Gaelic, \"Loch Iall\") is a sea loch in Lochaber, Scotland that opens into Loch Linnhe near the town of Fort William.\n\n\".. the name of the Chief of Clan Cameron is spelt LOCHIEL, while the name of the loch is spelt LOCH EIL..\"\n\nLoch Eil Outward Bound railway station and Locheilside railway station are both situated on the northern shore of the loch. Achaphubuil is on the southern shore.(Gaelic : Achadh a' phubùill : Field of the booth or tent) \n\nLochiel was a historic place east of Fassfern on the north shore of Loch Eil. The place was home to Jacobite chieftain Donald Cameron, of Lochiel.\n\nThe earliest known residence of the chiefs of Clan Cameron was on Eilean nan Craobh (The island of the trees) just outside the entrance to Loch Eil. They moved from there to Tor Castle in the 17th century and later to Achnacarry. The island has now become part of harbour works.\n\nLoch Eil and Loch Linnhe are joined by narrows at Annat where a paper mill once stood and where there is a now a large timber yard.\n"}
{"id": "1947410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947410", "title": "Critical period", "text": "Critical period\n\nIn developmental psychology and developmental biology, a critical period is a maturational stage in the lifespan of an organism during which the nervous system is especially sensitive to certain environmental stimuli. If, for some reason, the organism does not receive the appropriate stimulus during this \"critical period\" to learn a given skill or trait, it may be difficult, ultimately less successful, or even impossible, to develop certain associated functions later in life. Functions that are indispensable to an organism's survival, such as vision, are particularly likely to develop during critical periods. \"Critical period\" also relates to the ability to acquire one's first language. Researchers found that people who passed the \"critical period\" would not acquire their first language fluently.\n\nSome researchers differentiate between 'strong critical periods' and 'weak critical periods' (a.k.a. 'sensitive' periods) — defining 'weak critical periods' / 'sensitive periods' as more extended periods, after which learning is still possible. Other researchers consider these the same phenomenon.\n\nFor example, the critical period for the development of a human child's binocular vision is thought to be between three and eight months, with sensitivity to damage extending up to at least three years of age. Further critical periods have been identified for the development of hearing and the vestibular system.\n\nExamples of strong critical periods include monocular deprivation, filial imprinting, monaural occlusion, and Prefrontal Synthesis acquisition. These traits cannot be acquired after the end of the critical period.\n\nExamples of weak critical periods include phoneme tuning, grammar processing, articulation control, vocabulary acquisition, music training, auditory processing, sport training, and many other traits that can be significantly improved by training at any age.\n\nCritical periods of plasticity occur in the prenatal brain and continue throughout childhood until adolescence and are very limited during adulthood. Two major factors influence the opening of critical periods: cellular events (i.e. changes in molecular landscape) and sensory experience (i.e. hearing sound, visual input, etc). Both need to coincide for the critical period to open properly. At the cellular level, critical periods are characterized by maturation of the inhibitory circuits. More precisely, factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and orthodenticle homeobox 2 (Otx2) contribute to the maturation of a major class of inhibitory neurons: parvalbumin-positive interneurons (PV cells). Prior to the onset of the critical period, modulation of this circuit is hampered by early factors such as polysialic acid (PSA). PSA acts, in part, by preventing Otx2 interaction with PV cells. Soon after the opening of the critical period, PSA levels decrease, allowing PV cell maturation by activating inhibitory GABAa receptors that facilitate inhibitory circuit remodeling. Artificially removing PSA, or experimentally manipulating inhibitory transmission can result in early opening of the critical period. While the timing of these molecular events seems to be partially explained by clock genes, experience is crucial as sensory deprivation experiments have been shown to interfere with the proper timing of critical periods.\n\nHebbian theory guides the idea of activity-dependent competition: if two neurons both have the potential to make a connection with a cell, the neuron that fires more will make the connection.\n\nThis phenomenon of activity-dependent competition is especially seen in the formation of ocular dominance columns within the visual system. Early in development, most of the visual cortex is binocular, meaning it receives roughly equal input from both eyes. Normally, as development progresses, the visual cortex will segregate into monocular columns that receive input from only one eye. However, if one eye is patched, or otherwise prevented from receiving sensory input, the visual cortex will shift to favor representation of the uncovered eye. This demonstrates activity-dependent competition and Hebbian theory because inputs from the uncovered eye make and retain more connections than the patched eye.\n\nAxon formation and growth is another key part of plasticity and activity-dependent competition. Axon growth and branching has been shown to be inhibited when the neurons electrical activity is suppressed below the level of an active neighbor. This shows that axonal growth dynamics are not independent but rather depend on the local circuits within which they are active (i.e. the activity of the other neurons competing for connections).\n\nMicroglia inherently play a role in synaptic pruning during adolescence. As resident immune cells of the central nervous system, microglia’s main role is phagocytosis and engulfment. Studies have found that during critical periods in the visual cortex, neural synapses become the target of microglial phagocytosis. Neurons who received less frequent input from retinal ganglion cells during early postnatal periods were more prone to be engulfed and pruned by microglia, as per monocular deprivation experiments. Similar results were found when manipulating G-coupled purinergic receptors on microglial processes. Blocking these receptors or performing a knockout experiment significantly lowered microglial interactions and synaptic pruning during the early visual cortex critical period. More recently, the expression of the complement component 4 gene has been found to significantly contribute to abnormally high levels of microglial synaptic pruning during early stages of development in schizophrenic neurons and microglia, suggesting a genomic connection between the immune system and critical periods.\n\nDendritic spine motility is the altering of the dendritic morphology of a neuron, specifically the appearing and disappearing of the small protrusions known as spines. In early postnatal development, spine motility has been found to be at very high levels. Due to its most pronounced occurrence during postnatal days 11 through 15, spine motility is thought to have a role in neurogenesis. Motility levels significantly decrease before the start of the visual cortex critical period and monocular deprivation experiments show that motility levels steadily decrease until the critical period is over, hinting that motility might not be explicitly involved in this process. However, binocular deprivation before eye-opening resulted in a significant up-regulation of spine motility until the peak of the critical period, resulting in controversial findings regarding the role of dendritic spine motility.\n\nAnother critical component of neuronal plasticity is the balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs. Early in development, GABA, the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult brain, exhibits an excitatory effect on its target neurons. However, due to changes in internal chloride levels due to the up-regulation of potassium chloride pumps, GABA then switches to inhibitory synaptic transmission. The maturation of the GABAergic inhibitory system helps to trigger the onset of critical periods. Strengthened GABAergic systems can induce an early critical period, while weaker GABAergic inputs can delay or even prevent plasticity. Inhibition also guides plasticity once the critical period has begun. For example, lateral inhibition is especially important in guiding columnar formation in the visual cortex. Hebbian theory provides insight on the importance of inhibition within neural networks: without inhibition, there would be more synchronous firing and therefore more connections, but with inhibition, fewer excitatory signals get through, allowing only the more salient connections to mature.\n\nCritical period closure has been shown to be modulated by the maturation of inhibitory circuits, mediated by the formation of perineuronal nets around inhibitory neurons. Perineuronal nets (PNNs) are structures in the extracellular matrix formed by chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, hyaluronan, and link proteins. These structures envelop the soma of inhibitory neurons in the central nervous system, appearing with age to stabilize mature circuits. PNN development coincides with the closure of critical periods, and both PNN formation and critical period timing is delayed in dark-rearing. For example, PNN digestion by ABC chondroitinase in rats leads to a shift in ocular dominance upon monocular deprivation, which is normally restricted to its critical period much earlier in development.\n\nAdditionally, PNNs are negatively charged, which is theorized to create a cation-rich environment around cells, potentially leading to an increased firing rate of inhibitory neurons, thereby allowing for increased inhibition after the formation of PNNs and helping to close the critical period. The role of PNNs in critical period closure is further supported by the finding that fast-spiking parvalbulmin-positive interneurons are often surrounded by PNNs.\n\nPerineuronal nets have also been found to contain chemorepulsive factors, such as semaphorin3A, which restrict axon growth necessary for plasticity during critical periods. In all, these data suggest a role for PNNs in the maturation of CNS inhibition, the prevention of plastic axonal growth, and subsequently, critical period closure.\n\nAnother mechanism that closes the critical period is myelination. Myelin sheaths are formed by oligodendrocytes in the CNS that wrap around segments of axons to increase their firing speed. Myelin is formed in the early stages of development and progresses in waves, with brain areas of later phylogenetic development (i.e. those associated with “higher” brain functions like the frontal lobes) having later myelination. The maturation of myelination in intracortical layers coincides with critical period closure in mice, which has led to further research on the role of myelination on critical period duration.\n\nMyelin is known to bind many different axonal growth inhibitors that prevent plasticity seen in critical periods. The Nogo Receptor is expressed in myelin and binds to the axonal growth inhibitors Nogo and MAG (among others), preventing axon growth in mature, myelinated neurons. Instead of affecting the timing of the critical period, mutations of the Nogo receptor prolong the critical period temporarily. A mutation of the Nogo receptor in mice was found to extend the critical period for monocular dominance from around 20 – 32 days to 45 or 120 days, suggesting a likely role of the myelin Nogo receptor in critical period closure.\n\nAdditionally, the effects of myelination are temporally limited, since myelination itself may have its own critical period and timing. Research has shown that social isolation of mice leads to reduced myelin thickness and poor working memory, but only during a juvenile critical period. In primates, isolation is correlated with abnormal changes in white matter potentially due to decreased myelination.\n\nIn all, myelin and its associated receptors bind several important axonal growth inhibitors which help close the critical period. The timing of this myelination, however, is dependent on the brain region and external factors such as the social environment.\n\nWhile the presence or absence of sensory experiences most robustly shapes brain development during the critical period, the behavioral context (i.e. the amount of attention, arousal, fear and reward experienced) concurrent with the sensory inputs have been suggested to be important in regulating the brain remodeling mechanisms. In terms of brain connectivity, these behavioral and contextual inputs activate the neuromodulatory system, which have substantial connectivity to the cortex The molecular effectors released by the neuromodulatory system are called neuromodulators, which include acetylcholine, dopamine, and noradrenaline among others. Investigating the effect of these molecules, as well as the neurons that release and bind them, has been one approach to elucidate the biology of neuromodulation. Research using this approach has highlighted the role of neuromodulation in sensory processing during the critical period. For example, on the one hand, in kittens, a shift in ocular dominance resulting from monocular deprivation during the critical period is reduced by combined destruction of noradrenergic and cholinergic neurons. In addition, prenatal exposure to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) causes a shift in perceptual narrowing on language to earlier in development. On the other hand, neuromodulatory stimulation has been shown to induce brain plasticity in adult mice. While being subjected to cholinergic or dopaminergic stimulation, adult mice listening to a tone of specific frequency exhibited expansion of the tonotopic area in the auditory cortex that responds specifically to sounds of that frequency.\n\nMechanistically, neuromodulation is increasingly being recognized for its fine-tuning of the PV cell-mediated inhibition of excitatory pyramidal neurons' soma. Central to the neuromodulatory regulation of PV cell activity is the existence of distinct subsets of inhibitory neurons, which are responsive to activation by neuromodulators and which inhibit PV cells. Within these cells, some also inhibit specific pyramidal cell dendrites. By inhibiting PV cells activity, the neuromodulator-sensitive inhibitory cells such as those expressing Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) or somatostatin (SST) lift the inhibition of the pyramidal neurons; in other words, the activity of VIP and SST-expressing cells result in the disinhibition of pyramidal neurons. Then, by inhibiting only certain dendritic branches of these now dis-inhibited pyramidal neurons, the neuromodulation-activated cells allow select sensory inputs to excite the pyramidal neurons and be represented in the brain circuitry. Thus, in a landscape of global inhibition by maturing inhibitory signaling, neuromodulation allows windows of dis-inhibition, temporally and spatially, that allow behaviorally important sensory inputs the opportunity to influence the brain.\n\nThe critical period hypothesis (CPH) states that the first few years of life constitute the time during which language develops readily and after which (sometime between age 5 and puberty) language acquisition is much more difficult and ultimately less successful. The hypothesis that language is acquired during a critical period was first proposed by neurologists Wilder Penfield and Lamar Roberts in 1959 and popularized by linguist Eric Lenneberg in 1967. Lenneberg argued for the hypothesis based on evidence that children who experience brain injury early in life develop far better language skills than adults with similar injuries.\n\nDr. Maria Montessori was one of the earlier educators who brought attention to this phenomenon and called it \"Sensitive Periods\", which is one of the pillars of her philosophy of education.\n\nThe two most famous cases of children who failed to acquire language after the critical period are Genie and the feral child Victor of Aveyron. However, the tragic circumstances of these cases and the moral and ethical impermissibility of replicating them make it difficult to draw conclusions about them. The children may have been cognitively disabled from infancy, or their inability to develop language may have resulted from the profound neglect and abuse they suffered.\n\nMany subsequent researchers have further developed the CPH, most notably Elissa Newport and Rachel Mayberry. Studies conducted by these researchers demonstrated that profoundly deaf individuals who are not exposed to a sign language as children never achieve full proficiency, even after 30 years of daily use. While the effect is most profound for individuals who receive no sign language input until after the age of 12, even those deaf people who began learning a sign language at age 5 were significantly less fluent than native deaf signers (whose exposure to a sign language began at birth). Early language exposure also affects the ability to learn a second language later in life: profoundly deaf individuals with early language exposure achieve comparable levels of proficiency in a second language to hearing individuals with early language exposure. In contrast, deaf individuals without early language exposure perform far worse.\n\nOther evidence comes from neuropsychology where it is known that adults well beyond the critical period are more likely to suffer permanent language impairment from brain damage than are children, believed to be due to youthful resiliency of neural reorganization.\n\nSteven Pinker discusses the CPH in his book, The Language Instinct. According to Pinker, language must be viewed as a concept rather than a specific language because the sounds, grammar, meaning, vocabulary, and social norms play an important role in the acquisition of language. Physiological changes in the brain are also conceivable causes for the terminus of the critical period for language acquisition. As language acquisition is crucial during this phase, similarly infant-parent attachment is crucial for social development of the infant. An infant learns to trust and feel safe with the parent, but there are cases in which the infant might be staying at an orphanage where it does not receive the same attachment with their caregiver. Research shows that infants who were unable to develop this attachment had major difficulty in keeping close relationships, and had maladaptive behaviors with adopted parents.\n\nThe discussion of language critical period suffers from the lack of a commonly accepted definition of language. Some aspects of language, such as phoneme tuning, grammar processing, articulation control, and vocabulary acquisition can be significantly improved by training at any age and therefore have weak critical periods. Other aspects of language, such as Prefrontal Synthesis, have strong critical periods and cannot be acquired after the end of the critical period. Consequently, when language is discussed in general, without dissection into components, arguments can be constructed both in favor and against the strong critical period of L1 acquisition.\n\nThe theory has often been extended to a critical period for second language acquisition (SLA), which has influenced researchers in the field on both sides of the spectrum, supportive and unsupportive of CPH, to explore. However, the nature of this phenomenon has been one of the most fiercely debated issues in psycholinguistics and cognitive science in general for decades.\n\nCertainly, older learners of a second language rarely achieve the native-like fluency that younger learners display, despite often progressing faster than children in the initial stages. This is generally accepted as evidence supporting the CPH. Incorporating the idea, \"younger equals better\" by Penfield, David Singleton (1995) states that in learning a second language there are many exceptions, noting that five percent of adult bilinguals master a second language even though they begin learning it when they are well into adulthood—long after any critical period has presumably come to a close. The critical period hypothesis holds that first language acquisition must occur before cerebral lateralization completes, at about the age of puberty. One prediction of this hypothesis is that second language acquisition is relatively fast, successful, and qualitatively similar to first language only if it occurs before the age of puberty. To grasp a better understanding of SLA, it is essential to consider linguistic, cognitive, and social factors rather than age alone, as they are all essential to the learner's language acquisition.\n\nOver the years, many experimenters have tried to find evidence in support of or against the critical periods for second language acquisition. Many have found evidence that young children acquire language more easily than adults, but there are also special cases of adults acquiring a second language with native-like proficiency. Thus it has been difficult for researchers to separate correlation from causation.\n\nIn 1989, Jacqueline S. Johnson and Elissa L. Newport found support for the claim that second languages are more easily acquired before puberty, or more specifically before the age of seven. They tested second language learners of English who arrived in the United States at various ages ranging from three to thirty-nine, and found that there was a decline in grammatical correctness after the age of seven. Johnson and Newport attributed this claim to a decline in language learning ability with age. Opponents of the critical period argue that the difference in language ability found by Johnson and Newport could be due to the different types of input that children and adults receive; children received reduced input while adults receive more complicated structures.\n\nAdditional evidence against a strict critical period is also found in the work of Pallier et al. (2003) who found that children adopted to France from Korea were able to become native-like in their performance of French even after the critical period for phonology. Their experiment may represent a special case where subjects must lose their first language in order to more perfectly acquire their second.\n\nThere is also some debate as to how one can judge the native-like quality of the speech participants produce and what exactly it means to be a near-native speaker of a second language. White et al. found that it is possible for non-native speakers of a language to become native-like in some aspects, but those aspects are influenced by their first language.\n\nRecently, a connectionist model has been developed to explain the changes that take place in second language learning assuming that sensitive period affects lexical learning and syntactic learning parts of the system differently, which sheds further light on how first and second language acquisition changes over the course of learners development.\n\nIn mammals, neurons in the brain that process vision actually develop after birth based on signals from the eyes. A landmark experiment by David H. Hubel and Torsten Wiesel (1963) showed that cats that had one eye sewn shut from birth to three months of age (monocular deprivation) only fully developed vision in the open eye. They showed that columns in the primary visual cortex receiving inputs from the other eye took over the areas that would normally receive input from the deprived eye. In general electrophysiological analyses of axons and neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus showed that the visual receptive field properties was comparable to adult cats. However, the layers of cortex that were deprived had less activity and fewer responses were isolated. The kittens had abnormally small ocular dominance columns (part of the brain that processes sight) connected to the closed eye, and abnormally large, wide columns connected to the open eye. Because the critical period time had elapsed, it would be impossible for the kittens to alter and develop vision in the closed eye. This did not happen to adult cats even when one eye was sewn shut for a year because they had fully developed their vision during their critical period. Later experiments in monkeys found similar results consistent with the strong critical period.\n\nIn a follow-up experiment, Hubel and Wiesel (1963) explored the cortical responses present in kittens after binocular deprivation; they found it difficult to find any active cells in the cortex, and the responses they did get were either slow-moving or fast-fatiguing. Furthermore, the cells that did respond selected for edges and bars with distinct orientation preferences. Nevertheless, these kittens developed normal binocularity. Hubel and Wiesel first explained the mechanism, known as orientation selectivity, in the mammalian visual cortex. Orientation tuning, a model that originated with their model, is a concept in which receptive fields of neurons in the LGN excite a cortical simple cell and are arranged in rows. This model was important because it was able to describe a strong critical period for the proper development of normal ocular dominance columns in the lateral geniculate nucleus, and thus able to explain the effects of monocular deprivation during this critical period. The critical period for cats is about three months and for monkeys, about six months.\n\nIn a similar experiment, Antonini and Stryker (1993) examined the anatomical changes that can be observed after monocular deprivation. They compared geniculocortical axonal arbors in monocularly deprived animals in the long term (4- weeks) to short term (6–7 days) during the critical period established by Hubel and Wiesel (1993). They found that in the long term, monocular deprivation causes reduced branching at the end of neurons, while the amount of afferents allocated to the nondeprived eye increased. Even in the short term, Antonini and Stryker (1993) found that geniculocortical neurons were similarly affected. This supports the aforementioned concept of a critical period for proper neural development for vision in the cortex.\n\nStudies of people whose sight has been restored after a long blindness (whether from birth or a later point in life) reveal that they cannot necessarily recognize objects and faces (as opposed to color, motion, and simple geometric shapes). Some hypothesize that being blind during childhood prevents some part of the visual system necessary for these higher-level tasks from developing properly. The general belief that a critical period lasts until age 5 or 6 was challenged by a 2007 study that found that older patients could improve these abilities with years of exposure.\n\nExpression of the protein Lynx1 has been associated with the normal end of the critical period for synaptic plasticity in the visual system.\n\nIn psychology, imprinting is any type of rapid learning that occurs in a particular life stage. While this rapid learning is independent of the behavioral outcome, it also establishes it and can effect behavioral responses to different stimuli. Konrad Lorenz is well known for his classic studies of filial imprinting in graylag geese. From 1935 to 1938, he presented himself to a group of newly hatched gosling and took note of how he was instantly accepted, followed, and called to as if he were the one who laid them himself. As the first moving object they encountered, Lorenz studied the phenomenon in how quickly the geese were able to form such an irreversible bond. Through his work he demonstrated that this only developed during a brief “critical period,” which was about a few hours after hatching, suggesting a strong critical period.\n\nLorenz also discovered a long-lasting effect of his studies, and that was a shift in the species' sexual imprinting as a result from imprinting upon a foster mother of a second species. For certain species, when raised by a second one, they develop and retain imprinted preferences and approach the second species they were raised by rather than choose their own, if given a choice.\n\nImprinting serves as the distinguishing factor between one's own mother and other mother figures. The mother and the infant both identify with each other, this is a strong bonding moment for humans. It provides a sort of model or guide to adult behaviors in addition to other factors such as nurture, protection in infancy, guidance, and nourishment. The imprinting process, Lorenz also found, brought about a sense of familiarity for the young animals. When such a strong bond is formed at such an early stage, it creates a sense of security and comfort for the subject and actually encourages the imprinting behavior.\n\nPheromones play a key role in the imprinting process, they trigger a biochemical response in the recipient, leading to a confirmed identification in the other individual. If direct contact between mother and infant is not maintained during the critical imprinting period, then the mother goose may reject the infant because she is unfamiliar with her newborn's scent. If that does happen, then the infant's life would be in jeopardy unless it were claimed by a substitute mother, possibly leading to awkward social behavior in later life. In relation to humans, a newborn during the critical period identifies with its mother's and other peoples' scents since its scent is one of the most developed senses at that stage in life. The newborn uses this pheromone identification to seek the people it identifies with, when in times of distress, hunger, and discomfort as a survival skill. Inferences could be made for newborns based upon Lorenz's studies. When imprinting on their mothers, newborns look to them for nourishment, a sense of security, and comfort. Human newborns are among the most helpless known with orangutang newborns ranking second. Newborns of these species have a very limited array of innate survival abilities. Their most important and functional ability is to form bonds with close individuals who are able to keep them alive. Imprinting is a crucial factor of the critical period because it facilitates the newborn's abilities to form bonds with other individuals, from infancy to adulthood.\n\nMany studies have supported a correlation between the type of auditory stimuli present in the early postnatal environment and the development on the topographical and structural development of the auditory system.\n\nFirst reports on critical periods came from deaf children and animals that received a cochlear implant to restore hearing. Approximately at the same time, both an electroencephalographic study by Sharma, Dorman and Spahr and an in-vivo investigation of the cortical plasticity in deaf cats by Kral and colleagues demonstrated that the adaptation to the cochlear implant is subject to an early, developmental sensitive period. The closure of sensitive periods likely involves a multitude of processes that in their combination make it difficult to reopen these behaviorally. The understanding of the mechanisms behind critical periods has consequences for medical therapy of hearing loss. M. Merzenich and colleagues showed that during an early critical period, noise exposure can affect the frequency organization of the auditory cortex.\n\nRecent studies have examined the possibility of a critical period for thalamocortical connectivity in the auditory system. For example, Zhou and Merzenich (2008) studied the effects of noise on development in the primary auditory cortex in rats. In their study, rats were exposed to pulsed noise during the critical period and the effect on cortical processing was measured. Rats that were exposed to pulsed noise during the critical period had cortical neurons that were less able to respond to repeated stimuli; the early auditory environment interrupted normal structural organization during development.\n\nIn a related study, Barkat, Polley and Hensch (2011) looked at how exposure to different sound frequencies influences the development of the tonotopic map in the primary auditory cortex and the ventral medical geniculate body. In this experiment, mice were reared either in normal environments or in the presence of 7 kHz tones during early postnatal days. They found that mice that were exposed to an abnormal auditory environment during a critical period P11- P15 had an atypical tonotopic map in the primary auditory cortex.\nThese studies support the notion that exposure to certain sounds within the critical period can influence the development of tonotopic maps and the response properties of neurons. Critical periods are important for the development of the brain for the function from a pattern of connectivity. In general, the early auditory environment influences the structural development and response specificity of the primary auditory cortex.\n\nAbsolute pitch manifests itself almost always before adolescence and rarely if ever among individuals who are first exposed to music after mid-childhood, suggesting that exposure to music or similar phenomena (\"e.g.\", tonal languages) in early to mid-childhood is a necessary condition for its development or refinement. Studies that ask musicians and non-musicians to sing or hum well-known popular songs that have definitive recordings (and hence are sung in standardized keys) show that—on average—participants sing within a semitone of the standardized key but that outside the small subset of participants with absolute pitch there is broad variation (the \"bell curve\" that reflects the degree of approximation to the standard key is broad and flat). These results suggest that almost all humans have some innate aptitude for absolute pitch recognition—though other factors may enhance or limit the level of that aptitude. Also, the results' conjunction with the aforementioned chronological observations suggests that early to mid-childhood exposure to environments whose interpretation depends on pitch is a developmental \"trigger\" for whatever aptitude an individual possesses.\n\nIn our vestibular system, neurons are undeveloped at neuronal birth and mature during the critical period of the first 2-3 postnatal weeks. Hence, disruption of maturation during this period can cause changes in normal balance and movement through space. Animals with abnormal vestibular development tend to have irregular motor skills.\nStudies have consistently shown that animals with genetic vestibular deficiencies during this critical period have altered vestibular phenotypes, most likely as a result of insufficient input from the semicircular canals and dopaminergic abnormalities. Moreover, exposure to abnormal vestibular stimuli during the critical period is associated with irregular motor development. Children with hypofunctioning vestibular receptors frequently have delayed motor development. The results of the studies done on ferrets and rats reinforced the idea that the vestibular system is very important to motor development during the initial neonatal period. If the vestibular receptors are present during the initial six months to a year when the infant is learning to sit and stand, then the child may develop motor control and balance normally.\n\nThe vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) is a reflex eye movement that stabilizes images on the retina during head movement. It produces an eye movement in the direction opposite to head movement, thus preserving the image on the center of the visual field. Studies in fish and amphibians revealed a sensitivity in their VOR. They launched into space flight for 9-10, some with developing VOR's and others with already developed reflexes. The fish with developing reflexes developed an upward bend in their tails. The altered gravity resulted in a shift of orientation. Those who were already matured with the reflex were insensitive to the microgravity exposure.\n\nRecent studies also support the possibility of a critical period for the development of neurons that mediate memory processing. Experimental evidence supports the notion that young neurons in the adult dentate gyrus have a critical period (about 1–3 weeks after neuronal birth) during which they are integral to memory formation. Although the exact reasoning behind this observation is uncertain, studies suggest that the functional properties of neurons at this age make them most appropriate for this purpose; these neurons: (1) Remain hyperactive during the formation of memories; (2) are more excitable; and (3) More easily depolarizable due to GABAergic effects. It is also possible that hyperplasticity makes the neurons more useful in memory formation. If these young neurons had more plasticity than adult neurons in the same context, they could be more influential in smaller numbers.\nThe role of these neurons in the adult dentate gyrus in memory processing is further supported by the fact that behavioral experiments have shown that an intact dentate gyrus is integral to hippocampal memory formation. It is speculated that the dentate gyrus acts a relay station for information relating to memory storage. The likelihood of a critical period could change the way we view memory processing because it would ultimately mean that the collection of neurons present is constantly being replenished as new neurons replace old ones. If a critical period does indeed exist, this could possibly mean that: (1) Diverse populations of neurons that represent events occurring soon after one another may connect those events temporally in the memory formation and processing; OR (2) These different populations of neurons may distinguish between similar events, independent of temporal position; OR (3) Separate populations may mediate the formation of new memories when the same events occur frequently.\n\nIn physical sports, humans need several years of practice before reaching the highest competitive level. To date, no single professional football or basketball player has been able to play in the best leagues after starting practice at age 20. The same applies to mental sports like chess, where no player has arrived to the top 100 after starting practice at age 20. In general, to reach the highest level in sport, the sooner a person begins to train, the better.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947432", "title": "World B. Free", "text": "World B. Free\n\nWorld B. Free (born Lloyd Bernard Free; December 9, 1953) is an American retired professional basketball player who played in the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 1975 to 1988. Free was known as the \"Prince of Midair\" as well as \"All-World\".\n\nBorn in Atlanta, Free attended Canarsie High School in Brooklyn, New York before attending Guilford College in North Carolina. As a freshman, he led Guilford's basketball team and helped the team win the NAIA National Championship and was named MVP of the NAIA Tournament.\n\nFree played for the San Diego Clippers, Philadelphia 76ers, Golden State Warriors, Cleveland Cavaliers and Houston Rockets in the National Basketball Association. He got his name from his days in Brooklyn, where a friend nicknamed him \"World\" because of his 44-inch vertical leap and 360 degree dunks. Free was known for his \"rainbow\" jump shots, referring to the extreme arch of the ball during the shot. He was also known for taking high risk shots and playing flamboyantly. During Free's time playing for the San Diego Clippers, fans would shout \"shoot, shoot, shoot\" whenever Free took possession of the ball.\n\nFor both the 1978–79 and 1979–80 campaigns, George Gervin and Free were number 1 and 2 in the league in scoring. Free averaged 20.3 points per game over 13 seasons in the NBA. His best season was 1979–80 with the Clippers, averaging 30.2 points per game, as well as 4.2 assists per game and 3.5 rebounds per game in 68 games. He was an All-Star that season as well, although the Clippers failed to make the playoffs.\n\nDuring the season, Free became the 39th player in league history to surpass 15,000 career points.\n\nFree also played in the United States Basketball League (USBL) for the Miami Tropics after being waived by the Philadelphia 76ers in March 1987. He was USBL Man of The Year in 1987 and the Miami Tropics won the championship. His USBL stint took place the summer before Free went to the Houston Rockets for the 1987–88 season, which was his last NBA season. For Free, the highlight of that season was November 12, 1987, when he scored 38 points against the Sacramento Kings at ARCO Arena and brought the Rockets back to win the game.\n\nFree loved to go one-on-one against a defender and either whirl around him or take a jump shot. His shot was possibly his greatest strength: a soft, high-arcing lob that stayed in the air longer than the average jump shot and was very straight when he was \"on\" that it barely jostled the net. When he was younger, on the playgrounds of New York City, his jump shot was a flat line drive, but he was tired of having the ball blocked, so he developed a new style of shooting.\n\nFree admired Muhammad Ali.\n\nOn December 8, 1981, a day before his 28th birthday, he legally changed his first name to World. According to Free, \"the fellas back in Brownsville gave me the nickname \"World\" when I was in junior high... they just started calling me 'all-world', because all-city and all-county and things like that weren't good enough. Finally they just started calling me World... I'm still the same guy I was when I was Lloyd, though. I'll say what I'm going to do, and then I'll go out and do it.\"\n\nCurrently, Free is director of player development and a community ambassador for the Philadelphia 76ers. Among other things, he greets fans at 76ers home games in his flamboyant/colorful wardrobe. Free has also led the Sixers' \"Summer Hoops Tour\". On November 30, 2005, Free was honored as a Cleveland Cavaliers Legend at halftime of the Cavaliers game against the Los Angeles Clippers. Dick Vitale often uses his name in college basketball season previews to give the award for best name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947433", "title": "2001 Singaporean general election", "text": "2001 Singaporean general election\n\nGeneral elections were held in Singapore on 3 November 2001. The ruling People's Action Party (PAP) won 82 of the 84 elected seats in Parliament. Due to the large number (51) of uncontested seats, only 675,306 of the 2,036,923 eligible voters (33.2%) had an opportunity to vote. As of the recent election in 2015, this was the most recent, and fourth overall (third consecutive) election PAP returned to power on nomination day with a majority of uncontested walkovers. The election marked Goh Chok Tong's last election in which he led the party into a general election; his successor, Lee Hsien Loong, would succeed Goh on 12 August 2004.\n\nThe ruling PAP's secretary-general and Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong initially scheduled for the election to be held in 2002, but pushed to November after Singapore faced an economic crisis due to the events of September 11 attacks in the United States.\n\nFor the first time since 1963, a formal political umbrella emerged from within the opposition. The four-party Singapore Democratic Alliance (SDA), which consist of the leader party Singapore People's Party (SPP), the National Solidarity Party (NSP), Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura (PKMS) and Singapore Justice Party (SJP), was led by Chiam See Tong. SDA fielded the most candidates in the election, where NSP provided the bulk of nine candidates, SPP with four, and PKMS providing a required minority candidate.\n\nFormer Workers' Party (WP) Non-Constituency Member of Parliament Joshua Benjamin Jeyaretnam, who lost his seat after being declared a bankrupt owing to lawsuits by PAP leaders, resigned from the party, citing disagreements with the present leadership. The only WP Member of Parliament, Low Thia Khiang took over as secretary-general. During nomination day, WP was nominated on only two wards (Hougang and Nee Soon East SMC), as their sole GRC team who attempt to nominate in Aljunied Group Representation Constituency was disqualified for filing incomplete papers.\n\nA seat had been vacated in 1999 after the conviction of Jalan Besar GRC's MP Choo Wee Khiang over commercial crimes, but no by-election was held as the seat was within a GRC. Under the law, an entire electoral constituency (for both single member and GRC seats) has to be vacated before a by-election could be called, as this was done during the Marine Parade GRC by-election of 1992. \n\nThis election saw its shortest campaigning period of 17 days after opening of the register of electors, as well as the absence of four-member GRCs from the electoral map (four-member GRCs would reappear again in the 2011 elections, in nearly a decade later). Another increase of the election deposit amount this time was the most significant one in history, which almost doubled.\n\nThe end result saw WP's Low and SDA's Chiam retaining their seats, but saw their winning margins slashed from the 1997. With these two opposition wins, one NCMP seat was offered to and accepted by Steve Chia of Singapore Democratic Alliance, who became the youngest and first-ever non-WP NCMP.\n\nSingapore Democratic Party (SDP) leader Chee Soon Juan came under fire in the media when he encountered Prime Minister Goh while campaigning at a hawker centre. He used a megaphone to ask the Goh, \"Where is the $18 billion that you have lent to (Indonesian President) Suharto?\". Goh and Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew sued Chee for defamation shortly after the election. \n\nChee lost the lawsuits and was ordered to pay damages of S$300,000 to Goh and S$200,000 to Lee. On 10 February 2006, Chee was declared bankrupt by the High Court after failing to pay the damages owed to Goh and Lee, and was unable to stand in the elections held later May that year, until on 23 November 2012 where Chee was discharged from bankruptcy, and later returned to participate in the 2015 elections.\n\nThere were a total of 40 (25 PAP) candidates making their political debut in the 2001 election. Among the new faces were Tharman Shanmugaratnam and Halimah Yacob who would later became future Senior Minister and President of Singapore, respectively. 24 incumbent MPs retired prior to the announcements. 15 candidates outside PAP were also new, among which new faces include Chee Siok Chin, sister of the SDP's leader Chee Soon Juan, as well as Desmond Lim, who would later lead the newly-formed SDA in future years, and a future Perennial candidate Ooi Boon Ewe.\nPAP won a landslide victory and its best result since 1980. The party achieved its third highest score among the general elections it has contested since 1959. The PAP's vote percentage of 75.3% signalled an overwhelming endorsement of the PAP to lead the nation out of the crisis that came at a time of great uncertainty over world security and the recession that came after the September 11 attacks. \n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947439", "title": "Bloody Tubs", "text": "Bloody Tubs\n\nThe Bloody Tubs or Blood Tubs were a 19th-century gang of opportunistic street thugs in Baltimore, Maryland, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who worked primarily for Nativist Know Nothing politicians to commit election fraud.\n\nFormed in the mid-1850s, the gang became known as the Bloody Tubs for their method of dunking political opponents in slaughterhouse tubs. Other sources claim it was derived from the \"bloody oaths\" members took upon joining the gang. The gang's violent tactics included blocking voting booths and attacking opposing voters, discouraging many people from the polls altogether.\n\nDuring the presidential election of 1860, the Blood Tubs reportedly planned to abduct, or possibly assassinate, President-elect Abraham Lincoln when he visited Baltimore. At various times they also championed the Union cause. After the infamous Pratt Street Riot, the Blood Tubs could be seen sailing up and down the harbor flying U.S. flags.\n\nThe gang operated for more than a decade before their brutal acts caused so much public outrage that politicians were forced to withdraw their political support, and after 1870 the gang was eventually broken up by police \"head smashers\" or \"strong arm squads,\" as were many other gangs of the era.\n"}
{"id": "1947444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947444", "title": "Refael Reuvain Grozovsky", "text": "Refael Reuvain Grozovsky\n\nRefael Reuvain Grozovsky (; 1886, Minsk, Belarus – 1958, United States) was a leading Orthodox rabbi, Jewish religious leader and rosh yeshiva (\"dean\") known for his Talmudic analytical style.\n\nHe was the son of Rabbi Shimshon Grozovsky, the leading dayan (Halachic judge) of Minsk. He attended Yeshiva Knesses Yisrael, known as the Slabodka yeshiva, and studied under Rabbis Moshe Mordechai Epstein and Nosson Tzvi Finkel. In 1919, Rabbi Grozovsky married the daughter of Rabbi Baruch Ber Lebowitz, whose analytical method of textual study continues to be extremely influential in modern-day yeshivas. After his marriage, Rabbi Grozovsky moved to the Vilna suburb of Lukishuk. Later, he moved with his father-in-law to Kaminetz and continued to learn at the yeshiva there () under the tutelage of his father-in-law, whom he considered his main teacher. Rabbi Grozovsky had two sons and two daughters. He eventually became the dean of the Kaminetz Yeshiva.\n\nRabbi Grozovsky was known to lead a simple and sparse life. Sometimes he and his wife had to borrow money from his students. They shared a cramped apartment with his wife's parents, both because of Grozovsky's modest way of life and his desire to learn as much as possible from his famous father-in-law.\n\nDuring World War II, Rabbi Grozovsky escaped Europe and the Holocaust with a group of his students and arrived on the west coast of the United States. He then journeyed to New York City where he joined Rabbis Aharon Kotler and Avraham Kalmanowitz in leading the Vaad Hatzalah's efforts to save Jews from the Nazi Holocaust, including lobbying and fundraising. In the process, he also brought 110 members of the Kaminetz community to safety in America.\n\nRabbi Grozovsky was extremely active in the Agudath Israel of America organization. However, he preferred to work behind the scenes. His concern for the spiritual state of affairs in Israel was well known. He read many magazine and newspaper articles about Israel and asked students to translate articles written in English. As a result of his knowledge, in May 1951 he organized a public demonstration protesting the unilateral action of the Israeli government in involuntarily sending religious refugee children to anti-religious kibbutzim (\"communes\").\n\nRabbi Grozovsky was asked by Rabbi Shraga Feivel Mendlowitz to head the Yeshiva Torah Vodaas located in Brooklyn, New York. There he earned a reputation for incisive analytical reasoning combined with vast Talmudic knowledge and a humble and modest personality. Although he spent less than a year in this position, his influence on the Yeshiva belies the relatively short time he was associated with it.\n\nReb Reuvain's schedule would have worn out many men who were physically stronger. He arrived at Beth Medrash Elyon in Upstate New York, every Thursday and remained awake all night preparing for the Friday Talmudic lecture. The same routine was followed the next night, when after his Shabbos meal, he would prepare for his Sunday afternoon lecture. He then returned to Brooklyn on Monday to present the same lecture, modified for his different audience, on Tuesday.\n\nSix years before his death, he was struck by a car under suspicious circumstances[Rumour has it was the butcher meat mafia who arranged it, though there were other suspects . he then suffered a stroke which impaired his physical functioning. Nonetheless, the Rosh Yeshiva remained mentally alert and was able to study until his death in 1958. He was survived by his sons, Rabbi Chaim Grozovsky and rabbi Shamshon Grozovsky and his sons-in-law, Rabbis Don Ungarisher (Rosh Yeshiva of Beth Medrash Elyon) and Levi Krupenia.\n\nThe thrust of Rav Grozovsky's method of Talmudic analysis was an emphasis on extreme thoroughness. This manifested in two areas:\n\n\nGrozovsky was a fierce opponent of Zionism and the State of Israel. He wrote several essays attacking the Zionist movement and describing how Haredim should deal with the State. These essays were later collected and published in the book \"Ba'ayos Hazman\". In one essay, Grozovsky stressed that Agudath Israel differed from the extreme anti Zionist Neturei Karta only in tactics, not in ideology. He also participated in demonstrations against various actions of the Israeli government, and spoke against it in strong terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947455", "title": "Chinese alchemy", "text": "Chinese alchemy\n\nChinese alchemy is an ancient Chinese scientific and technological approach to alchemy, a part of the larger tradition of Taoist body-spirit cultivation developed from the traditional Chinese understanding of medicine and the body. According to original texts such as the Cantong qi, the body is understood as the focus of cosmological processes summarized in the five agents, or wu xing, the observation and cultivation of which leads the practitioner into greater alignment with the operation of the Tao, the great cosmological principle of everything. Therefore, the traditional view in China is that alchemy focuses mainly on the purification of one's spirit and body in the hopes of gaining immortality through the practice of Qigong and/or consumption and use of various concoctions known as alchemical medicines or elixirs, each of which having different purposes.\n\n\"Pao zhi\" (\"Pao chi\") cites the pharmacological processing (of Chinese materia medica) as used in the practice of Traditional Chinese Medicine, such as honey or wine frying and roasting with toxic metals such as mercury, lead, and arsenic.\n\nTaoism had two distinct parts, the classical Tao Chia, which was mystical and stemmed primarily from Laozi and Zhuangzi, and the more popular Tao Chiao, which was the popular, magical and alchemical side of Taoism. A common viewpoint is that \"classical Taoism [Daoism] was the original but was too austere and rarefied for the general populace ... [but] Tao Chiao fulfilled the day-to-day needs of the people.\"\n\nBy refining bases into gold and ingesting the \"fake\" or synthetic gold, the alchemist believed that immortal life would be delivered. The idea that fake gold was superior to real gold arose because the alchemists believed the combination of a variety of substances (and the transformation of these substances through roasting or burning) gave the final substance a spiritual value, possessing a superior essence when compared to natural gold. Gold and cinnabar (\"jindan\") were the most sought-after substances to manipulate and ingest, believed to have longevity and thus able to elongate the life of the consumer. \n\nCinnabar is a mineral with a reddish-brown colour and is the most common source of mercury in nature. The significance of its red colour and difficulty with which it was refined implied to alchemists its connection with the search for immortality. The colour was significant to symbolic belief as well, red being considered in Chinese culture to be the \"zenith of the colour representing the sun, fire, royalty and energy.\" Cinnabar could also be roasted, which produced a liquid form of silver known as quicksilver, now known as mercury. This substance was ingested but it could also be combined with sulphur and burned again to return to its natural form of cinnabar, the solid seen as the yang to quicksilver's yin. In China, gold was quite rare, so it was usually imported from other surrounding countries. However, cinnabar could be refined in the mountains of Sichuan and Hunan provinces in central China.\n\nAlthough the majority of \"xian\" (immortality) elixirs were combinations of \"jindan\", many other elixirs were formed by combining metallic bases with natural herbs or animals bi-products. The rhinoceros' horn was commonly used in medicines and elixirs and was held to have fertility-increasing abilities. Elixirs were composed of metallic compounds such as gold and silver, but could also be made of more lethal components like arsenic, and sulphur.\n\nBoth the Eastern practice and the later Western practice of alchemy are remarkably similar in their methods and ultimate purpose. To be sure, the desire to create an elixir of immortality was more appealing to the Taoists, but European alchemists were not averse to seeking out formulas for various longevity-boosting substances. The secret of transmuting one element into another, specifically base metals into gold or silver, was equally explored by both schools for obvious reasons.\n\nIn the European outlook, the ability to turn relatively worthless materials into gold was attractive enough to allow medieval alchemy to enjoy extensive practice long after the Chinese form had been forgotten. Alternatively, transmutation was also a means of accruing the precious metals that were key in making life-extending elixirs, and were otherwise expensive and difficult to obtain. Alchemical knowledge in the East and West favored different opinions of the true form of alchemy due to different theological views and cultural biases, however these disputes do not lessen the integrity of alchemy's canonical nature.\n\nChinese alchemy specifically was consistent in its practice from the beginning, and there was relatively little controversy among its practitioners. Definition amongst alchemists varied only in their medical prescription for the elixir of immortality, or perhaps only over their names for it, of which sinology has counted about 1000. Because the Chinese approach was through the fundamental doctrine of \"Yin\" and \"Yang\", the influence of the \"I Ching\", and the teachings of the Five Elements, Chinese alchemy had its roots considerably more in obtaining a higher mental-spiritual level.\n\nIn the West, there were conflicts between advocates of herbal and \"chemical\" (mineral) pharmacy, but in China, mineral remedies were always accepted. In Europe, there were conflicts between alchemists who favored gold-making and those who thought medicine the proper goal, but the Chinese always favored the latter. Since alchemy rarely achieved any of these goals, it was an advantage to the Western alchemist to have the situation obscured, and the art survived in Europe long after Chinese alchemy had simply faded away.\n\nDespite much research, many scholars are still unable to marshal conflicting evidence in order to determine when exactly Chinese alchemy started. It was thought that China was making gold about one thousand years before Confucius' time, but this is contradicted by other academics stating that during the 5th century BCE there was no word for gold and that it was an unknown metal in China. \n\nHowever, despite the uncertain origins, there are enough similarities in the ideas of practices of Chinese alchemy and the Daoist tradition so that one can conclude that Laozi and Zhang Daoling are the creators of this tradition. In her article, Radcliffe tells that Zhang rejected serving the Emperor and retreated to live in the mountains. At this time, he met Laozi and together they created (or attempted to create) the Elixir of Life (Radcliffe, 2001), by creating the theory that would be used in order to achieve the making of such an elixir. This is the starting point to the Chinese tradition of alchemy, whose purpose was to achieve immortality.\n\nOne of the first evidence of Chinese alchemy being openly discussed in history is during the Qin's First Emperor's period when Huan Kuan (73-49 BC) states how modifying forms of nature and ingesting them will bring immortality to the person who drinks them. Before Huan Kuan, the idea of alchemy was to turn base metals into gold. Conflicting research on the origins of alchemy are further demonstrated by Cooper, who claims that alchemy \"flourished well before 144 BCE, for at that date the Emperor issued an edict which ordered public execution for anyone found making counterfeit gold\". This suggests that people were well aware of how to heat the metals in order to change them into a desired form. A further counter to Pregadio from Cooper is the latter's contention that an emperor in 60 BCE had hired \"a well-known scholar, Liu Hsiang, as Master of the Recipes so that he could make alchemical gold and prolong the Emperor's life.\" All of these conflicting origins considered, it is nearly impossible to claim any absolute knowledge on the origins of Chinese alchemy. However, historical texts of Daoist teaching include alchemical practices, most of which posit the existence of an elixir or the Golden Elixir that, when ingested, gives the drinker eternal life. \n\nAs there is a direct connection between Daoism and Laozi, some suggest he played a major role in the creation of Chinese alchemy. Zhou Dynasty philosopher Zou Yan is said to have written many of the alchemical books, although none of them have ever been found, nor have the existing ones been credited to him. The likeliest proponents of Chinese alchemy are as previously stated, Laozi, and Zhang Daoling as well as Zhuangzi. Each of these men are major icons in Daoist teachings. Although these three are credited with the creation of alchemy, there is no definitive proof to suggest or dispute that they were responsible for its creation.\n\nWith the rise of alchemy in Chinese civilization, it came to be seen as an art. Among many practitioners, a significant number of women were known to have mastered this art. The earliest recorded woman alchemist had the family name of Fang (), and lived around the first century B.C. Raised in a scholarly family skilled in the alchemical arts, she studied alchemy with one of the Emperor Han Wu Ti's spouses, and therefore had access to the highest levels of society. Fang was credited with the discovery of the method to turn mercury into silver. It was believed that she may have used the chemical technique of silver extraction from ores using mercury, where pure silver residue is left behind from the boiled mercury. Fang's husband Cheng Wei () was known to have physically abused her trying to obtain the secret procedure, although she refused to give it to him. Fang eventually went insane and killed herself. Details of Fang's life were recorded by author and alchemist Ge Hong.\n\nKeng Hsien-Seng (circa A.D. 975) was another female alchemist who, according to the science writings of Wu Shu \"mastered the art of the yellow and white [alchemy] with many other strong transformations, mysterious and incomprehensible\". Wu Shu also described Keng as being acquainted with other Taoist techniques and was believed able to control the spirits. She also mastered the transformation of mercury and \"snow\" into silver, probably using the technique of extraction of silver from its ores, as well as using a primitive type of Soxhlet process to continuously extract camphor into alcohol.\n\nOther female alchemists who have been recognized in Chinese literature are Pao Ku Ko (third century A.D.), Li Shao Yun (11th century), Thai Hsuan Nu, Sun Pu-Eh (12th century), and Shen Yu Hsiu (15th century).\n\nThe concept of yin-yang is pervasive throughout Chinese alchemical theory. Metals were categorized as being male or female, and mercury and sulphur especially were thought to have powers relating to lunar and solar respectively.\n\nPrior to Taoist tradition, the Chinese already had very definitive notions of the natural world's processes and \"changes\", especially involving the \"wu xing\": Water, Fire, Earth, Metal and Wood. These were commonly thought to be interchangeable with one another; each were capable of becoming another element. The concept is integral, as the belief in outer alchemy necessitates the belief in natural elements being able to change into others. The cyclical balance of the elements relates to the binary opposition of yin-yang, and so it appears quite frequently.\n\nChinese alchemy can be divided into two methods of practice, \"waidan\" or \"external alchemy\" and \"neidan\" or \"internal alchemy\". Doctrine can be accessed to describe these methods in greater detail; the majority of Chinese alchemical sources can be found in the Daozang, the \"Taoist Canon\".\n\nThe meaning of \"waidan\" derives from \"wai\" (outside, exterior) and \"dan\" referring to alchemical operations, such as the preparation of chemical elixirs, made from cinnabar, realgar, and other substances generally involving mercury, sulfur, lead, and arsenic or else the animal and botanical products which are found in Chinese herbology and Traditional Chinese medicine. Waidan refers to practices relating to the process of making an elixir often containing herbal or chemical substances found outside of the body. This process involves esoteric oral instructions, building a laboratory, kindling and sustaining the special fires used in the production process, rules of seclusion and purification for the alchemist to follow, and various practices including the performance of ceremonies to protect the self and the ritual area. Waidan can also include following a dietary regimen which prescribes or proscribes certain foods. Preparing medicines and elixirs can be referred to as outer practices or waidan as these practices occur outside of the body until they are verified by the ingestion of medicines, herbs, and pills to bring about physical changes within the body, separate to the soul.\n\nThe term Neidan can be divided into two parts: Nei, meaning inner, and Dan, which refers to alchemy, elixir, and cinnabar (mercury). Neidan uses techniques such as: composed meditation techniques, visualization, breathing and bodily posture exercises. Breathing exercises were used to preserve jing or \"life essence\" and bodily postures were used to improve qi or \"energy\" flow in the body. Neidan comprises the elixir from the principles of Traditional Chinese Medicine and the cultivation of substances already present in the body, in particular the manipulation of three substances in the body known as the \"Three Treasures\".\n\nThe three treasures are:\n\nThe three treasures are also associated with locations in the body where the alchemical process takes place. These locations include major organs and energy centers, called dantians.\n\nWhen ingested, these compounds did not always result in the desired outcome. Many individuals died or had psychological difficulties after taking certain elixirs. However, the loss of life may not have seemed a large risk, when compared with the promise of the afterlife. Although these elixirs were lethal or dangerous, there is some contention that these individuals were not ignorant of the fatality of some of the materials they were ingesting.\n\nThere were certain grades of immortality, so if the practiced alchemist died, the level of immortality they achieved was determined by their corpse. If their corpse was sweet-smelling, it was said that they had achieved immortality in an ephemeral state. Likewise, if their corpse disappeared, leaving behind only the clothes, such as in the death of an adept named Ko Hung, this was another form of immortality known as \"shih chieh hsien\" (corpse-free immortals) (Cooper, 14).\n\nMedicines can be used to heal ailments on the exterior or interior of the body, to control the ageing of the body, or even to prevent death. The term medicine and elixir are virtually interchangeable because of the array of ailments they can influence. The difference between defining an elixir from a medicine was that many medicines were composed mainly of all natural products like herbs and animal products. Never the animals themselves, only their products, which could consist of dung or fur. Although metal compounds are more potent when curing ailments, herbs were used because they were easier to combine and more abundantly available. To make medicines one would use ingredients like: Kolo nuts, which would be used in famous longevity pills like \"Fo-Ti-Ti\"; Asparagus, which was used because it was known to increase strength; sesame, which prevents senility; and pine which has over 300 different uses. (Cooper, 1990. Pg. 62) Mushrooms were and still are very popular, they are known as the \"magic fungus\" (Ganoderma) and have thousands of purposes within Chinese alchemy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947462", "title": "Bryan Clark", "text": "Bryan Clark\n\nBryan Emmett Clark (born March 14, 1964) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling, the World Wrestling Federation and All Japan Pro Wrestling under the ring names The Nightstalker, Adam Bomb and Wrath and under his own name. He is a former WCW World Tag Team Champion and AJPW World Tag Team Champion.\n\nClark made his wrestling debut in 1989 under the ring name The Nightstalker and quickly rose to a main event status wrestler. Clark competed in the Minnesota-based American Wrestling Association. He appeared at live AWA house and television events, mainly in the mid-west area of The United States. Some of these matches were broadcast on the ESPN, AWA Championship Wrestling show. (ESPN Classic continues to air re-runs of the show). Wrestling legend Ox Baker began to manage Clark during this time, providing for some classic promotional segments with Baker on the mic. The Nightstalker had a heated feud with The Trooper (Del Wilkes, later to be known as The Patriot). This began as The Nightstalker appeared during a Trooper match versus W.T. Jones on April 13, 1990 at an ESPN televised show in Rochester, Minnesota. Ox Baker began to challenge any and all wrestlers to include Larry Zbyszko, even telling The Trooper that he \"couldn't even join the boy scouts\". Clark's in ring look included black and white face paint, while gripping an over-sized hatchet.\n\nAs the AWA went into dormancy in the fall of 1990, Clark made the jump to World Championship Wrestling. He made his first appearance on the November 10 edition of \"WCW Saturday Night\" and defeated Gary Jackson. Ten days later Clark faced Sid Vicious at and was defeated. He then formed an alliance with The Big Cat and was scheduled to team with him against Vicious and Dan Spivey at Starrcade. Clark would miss the pay-per-view and be replaced by The Motor City Madman.\n\nClark would be absent from WCW until October 1991, when he made an appearance as a masked \"ghoul\" at Halloween Havoc. Two months later he replaced an injured Diamond Studd at Starrcade to team with Rick Steiner in a losing effort to Vader and Mr. Hughes.\n\nClark moved to Herb Abrams' Universal Wrestling Federation, making his first appearance on June 19, 1992 at a TV taping in Spartanburg, SC. He had three matches, defeating Johnny Kid and Jake Steele while losing by disqualification to Death Row 3260.\n\nClark joined Smoky Mountain Wrestling in October 1992 and made his debut on a show in Knoxville, TN, losing to SMW Champion Brian Lee by countout. He later defeated Tracy Smothers to become the promotion's second-ever \"Beat The Champ\" Television Champion on February 2, 1993. He lost the title to Tim Horner six days later.\n\nOn March 8, 1993 Clark received a tryout match for the World Wrestling Federation, wrestling Reno Riggins at a \"WWF Superstars\" taping in North Charleston, South Carolina as The Nightstalker. He had another tryout match the following night at a \"WWF Wrestling Challenge\" taping, defeating Ricky Nelson. In May 1993, Clark debuted as Adam Bomb, the newest client of Johnny Polo. Wearing luminous green contact lenses, and sporting a red tongue. Bomb's gimmick was that of a survivor of the infamous Three Mile Island nuclear meltdown accident, which was further emphasized by his ring name being a pun on the \"atom bomb\". This gimmick was partly realistic; Clark had actually been born and raised in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, not far from Three Mile Island. Seven months after his debut, Harvey Wippleman replaced Polo as Bomb's manager because Polo wanted to focus on managing WWF Tag Team Champions The Quebecers. The Adam Bomb concept and costume was designed and created by Tom Fleming.\nBomb made his pay-per-view debut at Survivor Series, where he teamed up with Irwin R. Schyster, Diesel and \"The Model\" Rick Martel against Razor Ramon, The 1-2-3 Kid, Marty Jannetty and \"The Macho Man\" Randy Savage in an elimination match. His team went on to lose the match, though he was the last remaining wrestler for his team before being pinned by Jannetty after a roll-up.\n\nFollowing this, he participated in the 1994 Royal Rumble, where he was the final entrant in the match. However, he lasted less than five minutes before being eliminated by Lex Luger. He also was one of nine wrestlers who helped Yokozuna beat Undertaker during a Casket match. Following the Rumble and a feud with Earthquake, at WrestleMania X, Bomb lost to Earthquake in 35 seconds. Bomb turned face after his manager Harvey Wippleman turned on him and helped new client Kwang attack him. As a face, he would throw rubber nuclear missiles into the audience as he walked to the ring and after he won a match. After briefly feuding with Kwang and Bam Bam Bigelow, Bomb was moved down the card and began competing exclusively on \"WWF Superstars\" before leaving the promotion in August 1995.\n\nAt Uncensored 1997, Clark rejoined WCW as Wrath, a helmeted martial artist who, along with Mortis, battled Glacier and Ernest Miller. The four characters, collectively known as \"Blood Runs Cold\", was WCW's attempt to tap into the popularity of the \"Mortal Kombat\" video games. The angle continued until 1998 when Clark suffered an injury. After recovery, he returned to singles action later in the year as a face, debuting both a new attire and finishing move called the Meltdown while all Blood Runs Cold references were phased out. After a lengthy undefeated streak, Clark was rumored to be slated to become a future challenger to Bill Goldberg but had his momentum stopped on November 23, 1998 in a big loss to Kevin Nash. Wrath would continue to gain many victories into 1999 and entered a feud with Bam Bam Bigelow. At WCW/nWo Souled Out, Bigelow defeated Wrath to end the feud. Clark tore his ACL in a match against Jerry Flynn on April 15, 1999 and spent a year recuperating.\n\nClark returned to the ring in April 2000, now using his real name. He formed a tag team with Brian Adams known as KroniK, and both became members of the New Blood. However, KroniK switched allegiances to the Millionaires Club after Vince Russo betrayed them and, on May 15, 2000, they defeated Shane Douglas and The Wall to win the vacant World Tag Team Championship. They later lost the title on May 30 to New Blood members Shawn Stasiak and Chuck Palumbo. KroniK was granted a rematch for the title at Bash at the Beach on July 9, and was successful in reclaiming World Tag Team Championship. KroniK then entered a feud with the entire Natural Born Thrillers stable, but retained the title against the Thrillers before losing it to Vampiro and The Great Muta at New Blood Rising on August 13. Following the title loss, KroniK turned heel after Vince Russo managed to bribe them in order to have them attack Bill Goldberg, who would be fired if he lost a single match. However, Goldberg managed to overcome the odds and pinned both Clark and Adams in a handicap match at Halloween Havoc. KroniK continued working as \"hired muscle\" by helping The Boogie Knights battle The Filthy Animals, and eventually helped their former enemies the Natural Born Thrillers before turning face once again in January 2001 by siding with Ernest Miller.\n\nKroniK was sidelined when Clark needed stitches for a wound from a chair shot while Adams was hospitalized with appendicitis. While they were injured, WCW was purchased by the World Wrestling Federation in March 2001.\n\nClark and Adams returned to the WWF on the September 4, 2001 episode of \"SmackDown!\" by attacking and double chokeslamming The Undertaker. The team would go on to face The Brothers of Destruction at Unforgiven 2001 in a match for the WCW Tag Team Championship, which Clark and Adams lost. After two dark matches and a pay-per-view appearance, Clark was released from his contract while Adams began working for the Heartland Wrestling Association, which served as WWF's developmental territory.\n\nAfter Brian Adams was released from the WWF in November 2001, he and Clark reformed KroniK made a number of appearances on the independent circuit, most prominently for World Wrestling All-Stars and All Japan Pro Wrestling. During their time in AJPW, they defeated Keiji Mutoh and Taiyō Kea for the World Tag Team Championship on July 17, 2002. KroniK were later stripped of the title due to contract problems. They wrestled their last match together in January 2003, losing to Goldberg and Keiji Mutoh. Shortly afterwards, both Adams and Clark retired due to injuries.\n\nIn July 2016, Clark was named part of a class action lawsuit filed against WWE which alleged that wrestlers incurred traumatic brain injuries during their tenure and that the company concealed the risks of injury. The suit was litigated by attorney Konstantine Kyros, who has been involved in a number of other lawsuits against WWE. The lawsuit was dismissed by US District Judge Vanessa Lynne Bryant in September 2018. \n\nIn February 2020, Clark was arrested in Arizona on five felony charges relating to alleged acts between January and April 2019. They include conspiracy, drug possession, illegal control of enterprise, transporting or selling narcotics, and possessing a weapon during a drug offense. He pleaded not guilty to all.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947467", "title": "Radical polymerization", "text": "Radical polymerization\n\nFree-radical polymerization (FRP) is a method of polymerization by which a polymer forms by the successive addition of free-radical building blocks. Free radicals can be formed by a number of different mechanisms, usually involving separate initiator molecules. Following its generation, the initiating free radical adds (nonradical) monomer units, thereby growing the polymer chain.\n\nFree-radical polymerization is a key synthesis route for obtaining a wide variety of different polymers and material composites. The relatively non-specific nature of free-radical chemical interactions makes this one of the most versatile forms of polymerization available and allows facile reactions of polymeric free-radical chain ends and other chemicals or substrates. In 2001, 40 billion of the 110 billion pounds of polymers produced in the United States were produced by free-radical polymerization.\n\nFree-radical polymerization is a type of chain-growth polymerization, along with anionic, cationic and coordination polymerization.\nInitiation is the first step of the polymerization process. During initiation, an active center is created from which a polymer chain is generated. Not all monomers are susceptible to all types of initiators. Radical initiation works best on the carbon–carbon double bond of vinyl monomers and the carbon–oxygen double bond in aldehydes and ketones. Initiation has two steps. In the first step, one or two radicals are created from the initiating molecules. In the second step, radicals are transferred from the initiator molecules to the monomer units present. Several choices are available for these initiators.\n\n\n\nDue to side reactions and inefficient synthesis of the radical species, chain initiation is not . The efficiency factor \"f\" is used to describe the effective radical concentration. The maximal value of \"f\" is 1, but typical values range from 0.3 to 0.8. The following is a list of reactions that decrease the efficiency of the initiator.\n\n\nDuring polymerization, a polymer spends most of its time in increasing its chain length, or propagating. After the radical initiator is formed, it attacks a monomer (Figure 11). In an ethene monomer, one electron pair is held securely between the two carbons in a sigma bond. The other is more loosely held in a pi bond. The free radical uses one electron from the pi bond to form a more stable bond with the carbon atom. The other electron returns to the second carbon atom, turning the whole molecule into another radical. This begins the polymer chain. Figure 12 shows how the orbitals of an ethylene monomer interact with a radical initiator.\nOnce a chain has been initiated, the chain propagates (Figure 13) until there are no more monomers (living polymerization) or until termination occurs. There may be anywhere from a few to thousands of propagation steps depending on several factors such as radical and chain reactivity, the solvent, and temperature. The mechanism of chain propagation is as follows:\nChain termination is inevitable in radical polymerization due to the high reactivity of radicals. Termination can occur by several different mechanisms. If longer chains are desired, the initiator concentration should be kept low; otherwise, many shorter chains will result.\n\nContrary to the other modes of termination, chain transfer results in the destruction of only one radical, but also the creation of another radical. Often, however, this newly created radical is not capable of further propagation. Similar to disproportionation, all chain transfer mechanisms also involve the abstraction of a hydrogen or other atom. There are several types of chain transfer mechanisms.\n\n\"Effects of chain transfer:\" The most obvious effect of chain transfer is a decrease in the polymer chain length. If the rate of transfer is much larger than the rate of propagation, then very small polymers are formed with chain lengths of 2-5 repeating units (telomerization). The Mayo equation estimates the influence of chain transfer on chain length (\"x\"): formula_1. Where \"k\" is the rate constant for chain transfer and \"k\" is the rate constant for propagation. The Mayo equation assumes that transfer to solvent is the major termination pathway.\n\nThere are four industrial methods of radical polymerization:\nOther methods of radical polymerization include the following:\n\nAlso known as living radical polymerization, controlled radical polymerization, reversible deactivation radical polymerization (RDRP) relies on completely pure reactions, preventing termination caused by impurities. Because these polymerizations stop only when there is no more monomer, polymerization can continue upon the addition of more monomer. Block copolymers can be made this way. RDRP allows for control of molecular weight and dispersity. However, this is very difficult to achieve and instead a pseudo-living polymerization occurs with only partial control of molecular weight and dispersity. ATRP and RAFT are the main types of complete radical polymerization.\n\nIn typical chain growth polymerizations, the reaction rates for initiation, propagation and termination can be described as follows:\n\nwhere \"f\" is the efficiency of the initiator and k, k, and k are the constants for initiator dissociation, chain propagation and termination, respectively. [I] [M] and [M•] are the concentrations of the initiator, monomer and the active growing chain.\n\nUnder the steady state approximation, the concentration of the active growing chains remains constant, i.e. the rates of initiation and of termination are equal. The concentration of active chain can be derived and expressed in terms of the other known species in the system.\n\nIn this case, the rate of chain propagation can be further described using a function of the initiator and monomer concentrations\n\nThe kinetic chain length v is a measure of the average number of monomer units reacting with an active center during its lifetime and is related to the molecular weight through the mechanism of the termination. Without chain transfer, the kinetic chain length is only a function of propagation rate and initiation rate.\n\nAssuming no chain transfer effect occurs in the reaction, the number average degree of polymerization P can be correlated with the kinetic chain length. In the case of termination by disproportionation, one polymer molecule is produced per every kinetic chain:\n\nTermination by combination leads to one polymer molecule per two kinetic chains:\n\nAny mixture of both these mechanisms can be described by using the value , the contribution of disproportionation to the overall termination process:\n\nIf chain transfer is considered, the kinetic chain length is not affected by the transfer process because the growing free-radical center generated by the initiation step stays alive after any chain transfer event, although multiple polymer chains are produced. However, the number average degree of polymerization decreases as the chain transfers, since the growing chains are terminated by the chain transfer events. Taking into account the chain transfer reaction towards solvent \"S\", initiator \"I\", polymer \"P\", and added chain transfer agent \"T\". The equation of P will be modified as follows:\n\nIn chain growth polymerization, the position of the equilibrium between polymer and monomers can be determined by the thermodynamics of the polymerization. The Gibbs free energy (ΔG) of the polymerization is commonly used to quantify the tendency of a polymeric reaction. The polymerization will be favored if ΔG < 0; if ΔG > 0, the polymer will undergo depolymerization. According to the thermodynamic equation ΔG = ΔH – TΔS, a negative enthalpy and an increasing entropy will shift the equilibrium towards polymerization.\n\nIn general, the polymerization is an exothermic process, i.e. negative enthalpy change, since addition of a monomer to the growing polymer chain involves the conversion of π bonds into σ bonds, or a ring–opening reaction that releases the ring tension in a cyclic monomer. Meanwhile, during polymerization, a large amount of small molecules are associated, losing rotation and translational degrees of freedom. As a result, the entropy decreases in the system, ΔS < 0 for nearly all polymerization processes. Since depolymerization is almost always entropically favored, the ΔH must then be sufficiently negative to compensate for the unfavorable entropic term. Only then will polymerization be thermodynamically favored by the resulting negative ΔG.\n\nIn practice, polymerization is favored at low temperatures: TΔS is small. Depolymerization is favored at high temperatures: TΔS is large. As the temperature increases, ΔG become less negative. At a certain temperature, the polymerization reaches equilibrium (rate of polymerization = rate of depolymerization). This temperature is called the ceiling temperature (T). ΔG = 0.\n\nThe stereochemistry of polymerization is concerned with the difference in atom connectivity and spatial orientation in polymers that has the same chemical composition.\nStaudinger studied the stereoisomerism in chain polymerization of vinyl monomers in late 1920s, and it took another two decades for people to fully appreciate the idea that each of the propagation steps in the polymer growth could give rise to stereoisomerism. The major milestone in the stereochemistry was established by Ziegler and Natta and their coworkers in 1950s, as they developed metal based catalyst to synthesize stereoregular polymers. The reason why the stereochemistry of the polymer is of particular interest is because the physical behavior of a polymer depends not only on the general chemical composition but also on the more subtle differences in microstructure. Atactic polymers consist of a random arrangement of stereochemistry and are amorphous (noncrystalline), soft materials with lower physical strength. The corresponding isotactic (like substituents all on the same side) and syndiotactic (like substituents of alternate repeating units on the same side) polymers are usually obtained as highly crystalline materials. It is easier for the stereoregular polymers to pack into a crystal lattice since they are more ordered and the resulting crystallinity leads to higher physical strength and increased solvent and chemical resistance as well as differences in other properties that depend on crystallinity. The prime example of the industrial utility of stereoregular polymers is polypropene. Isotactic polypropene is a high-melting (165 °C), strong, crystalline polymer, which is used as both a plastic and fiber. Atactic polypropene is an amorphous material with an oily to waxy soft appearance that finds use in asphalt blends and formulations for lubricants, sealants, and adhesives, but the volumes are minuscule compared to that of isotactic polypropene.\n\nWhen a monomer adds to a radical chain end, there are two factors to consider regarding its stereochemistry: 1) the interaction between the terminal chain carbon and the approaching monomer molecule and 2) the configuration of the penultimate repeating unit in the polymer chain. The terminal carbon atom has \"sp\" hybridization and is planar. Consider the polymerization of the monomer CH=CXY. There are two ways that a monomer molecule can approach the terminal carbon: the mirror approach (with like substituents on the same side) or the non-mirror approach (like substituents on opposite sides). If free rotation does not occur before the next monomer adds, the mirror approach will always lead to an isotactic polymer and the non-mirror approach will always lead to a syndiotactic polymer (Figure 25). However, if interactions between the substituents of the penultimate repeating unit and the terminal carbon atom are significant, then conformational factors could cause the monomer to add to the polymer in a way that minimizes steric or electrostatic interaction (Figure 26). \n\nTraditionally, the reactivity of monomers and radicals are assessed by the means of copolymerization data. The \"Q–e\" scheme, the most widely used tool for the semi-quantitative prediction of monomer reactivity ratios, was first proposed by Alfrey and Price in 1947. The scheme takes into account the intrinsic thermodynamic stability and polar effects in the transition state. A given radical formula_16 and a monomer formula_17 are considered to have intrinsic reactivities P and Q, respectively. The polar effects in the transition state, the supposed permanent electric charge carried by that entity (radical or molecule), is quantified by the factor \"e\", which is a constant for a given monomer, and has the same value for the radical derived from that specific monomer. For addition of monomer 2 to a growing polymer chain whose active end is the radical of monomer 1, the rate constant, \"k\", is postulated to be related to the four relevant reactivity parameters by\n\nThe monomer reactivity ratio for the addition of monomers 1 and 2 to this chain is given by\n\nFor the copolymerization of a given pair of monomers, the two experimental reactivity ratios r and r permit the evaluation of (Q/Q) and (e – e). Values for each monomer can then be assigned relative to a reference monomer, usually chosen as styrene with the arbitrary values Q = 1.0 and e = –0.8.\n\nFree radical polymerization has found applications including the manufacture of polystyrene, thermoplastic block copolymer elastomers, cardiovascular stents, chemical surfactants and lubricants. Block copolymers are used for a wide variety of applications including adhesives, footwear and toys.\n\nFree radical polymerization has uses in research as well, such as in the functionalization of carbon nanotubes. CNTs intrinsic electronic properties lead them to form large aggregates in solution, precluding useful applications. Adding small chemical groups to the walls of CNT can eliminate this propensity and tune the response to the surrounding environment. The use of polymers instead of smaller molecules can modify CNT properties (and conversely, nanotubes can modify polymer mechanical and electronic properties). For example, researchers coated carbon nanotubes with polystyrene by first polymerizing polystyrene via chain radical polymerization and subsequently mixing it at 130 °C with carbon nanotubes to generate radicals and graft them onto the walls of carbon nanotubes (Figure 27). Chain growth polymerization (\"grafting to\") synthesizes a polymer with predetermined properties. Purification of the polymer can be used to obtain a more uniform length distribution before grafting. Conversely, “grafting from”, with radical polymerization techniques such as atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP) or nitroxide-mediated polymerization (NMP), allows rapid growth of high molecular weight polymers. \n\nRadical polymerization also aids synthesis of nanocomposite hydrogels. These gels are made of water-swellable nano-scale clay (especially those classed as smectites) enveloped by a network polymer. They are often biocompatible and have mechanical properties (such as flexibility and strength) that promise applications such as synthetic tissue. Synthesis involves free radical polymerization. The general synthesis procedure is depicted in Figure 28. Clay is dispersed in water, where it forms very small, porous plates. Next the initiator and a catalyst are added, followed by adding the organic monomer, generally an acrylamide or acrylamide derivative. The initiator is chosen to have stronger interaction with the clay than the organic monomer, so it preferentially adsorbs to the clay surface. The mixture and water solvent is heated to initiate polymerization. Polymers grow off the initiators that are in turn bound to the clay. Due to recombination and disproportionation reactions, growing polymer chains bind to one another, forming a strong, cross-linked network polymer, with clay particles acting as branching points for multiple polymer chain segments. Free radical polymerization used in this context allows the synthesis of polymers from a wide variety of substrates (the chemistries of suitable clays vary). Termination reactions unique to chain growth polymerization produce a material with flexibility, mechanical strength and biocompatibility.\n\nThe radical polymer glass PTMA is about 10 times more electrically conductive than common semiconducting polymers. PTMA is in a class of electrically active polymers that could find use in transparent solar cells, antistatic and antiglare coatings for mobile phone displays, antistatic coverings for aircraft to protect against lightning strikes, flexible flash drives, and thermoelectric devices, which convert electricity into heat and the reverse. Widespread practical applications require increasing conductivity another 100 to 1,000 times.\n\nThe polymer was created using deprotection, which involves replacing a specific hydrogen atom in the pendant group with an oxygen atom. The resulting oxygen atom in PTMA has one unpaired electron in its outer shell, making it amenable to transporting charge. The deprotection step can lead to four distinct chemical functionalities, two of which are promising for increasing conductivity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947471", "title": "Rishon model", "text": "Rishon model\n\nThe Harari–Shupe preon model (also known as rishon model, RM) is the earliest effort to develop a preon model to explain the phenomena appearing in the Standard Model (SM) of particle physics. It was first developed independently by Haim Harari and by Michael A. Shupe and later expanded by Harari and his then-student Nathan Seiberg.\n\nThe model has two kinds of fundamental particles called rishons (which means \"primary\" in Hebrew). They are T (\"Third\" since it has an electric charge of +⅓ \"e\", or Tohu which means \"unformed\" in Hebrew) and V (\"Vanishes\", since it is electrically neutral, or Vohu which means \"void\" in Hebrew). All leptons and all flavours of quarks are three-rishon ordered triplets. These groups of three rishons have spin-½. They are as follows:\n\nEach rishon has a corresponding antiparticle. Hence:\n\nThe W boson = TTTVVV;\nThe W boson = .\n\nBaryon number (\"B\") and lepton number (\"L\") are not conserved, but the quantity \"B\"−\"L\" is conserved. A baryon number violating process (such as proton decay) in the model would be\n\nwhich would appear in a particle detector as\n\nNote that:\n\nIn the expanded Harari–Seiberg version the rishons possess color and hypercolor, explaining why the only composites are the observed quarks and leptons. Under certain assumptions, it is possible to show that the model allows exactly for three generations of quarks and leptons.\n\nCurrently, there is no scientific evidence for the existence of substructure within quarks and leptons, but there is no profound reason why such a substructure may not be revealed at shorter distances. In 2008, Piotr Zenczykowski has derived the RM by starting from a non-relativistic O(6) phase space. Such model is based on fundamental principles and the structure of Clifford algebras, and fully recovers the RM by naturally explaining several obscure and otherwise artificial features of the original model.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947481", "title": "Hinduism in Myanmar", "text": "Hinduism in Myanmar\n\nHinduism is practised by 0.5% of the population of Myanmar. Hinduism is practised by about 252,763 people in Myanmar, and has been influenced by elements of Buddhism, with many Hindu temples in Myanmar housing statues of the Buddha.\n\nHinduism, along with Buddhism, arrived in Burma during ancient times. Both names of the country are rooted in Hinduism; Burma is the British colonial officials' phonetic equivalent for the first half of \"Brahma Desha\", the ancient name of the region. Brahma is part of Hindu trinity, a deity with four heads. The name \"Myanmar\" is the regional language transliteration of \"Brahma\", where \"b\" and \"m\" are interchangeable.\n\nArakan (Rakhine) Yoma is a significant natural mountainous barrier between Burma and India, and the migration of Hinduism and Buddhism into Burma occurred slowly through Manipur and by South Asian seaborne traders. Hinduism greatly influenced the royal court of Burmese kings in pre-colonial times, as seen in the architecture of cities such as Bagan. Likewise, the Burmese language adopted many words from Sanskrit and Pali, many of which relate to religion.\n\nWhile ancient and medieval arrival of ideas and culture fusion transformed Burma over time, it is in 19th and 20th century that over a million Hindu workers were brought in by British colonial government to serve in plantations and mines. The British also felt that surrounding the European residential centre with Indian immigrants provided a buffer and a degree of security from tribal theft and raids. According to 1931 census, 55% of Rangoon's (Yangon) population were Indian migrants, mostly Hindus.\n\nAfter independence from Britain, Burma Socialist Programme Party under Ne Win adopted xenophobic policies and expelled 300,000 Indian ethnic people (many of whom were Hindus), along with 100,000 Chinese, from Burma between 1963 and 1967. The Indian policy of encouraging democratic protests in Burma increased persecution of Indian-ethnicity residents and Burmese retaliatory support of left-leaning rebel groups in northeastern states of India.\n\nThe Burmese census data only reports individuals who stated Hinduism. Pew Research estimated a range of 820,000 to 840,000 Hindus in 2010.\nPopulation of Hindus by State/Region, according to the 2014 census\n\nPredominantly, Burmese Indians make up Myanmar's population of Hindus. The practice of Hinduism among Burmese Indians is also influenced by Buddhism. In addition to Hindu deities, the Buddha is also worshiped and many Hindu temples in Myanmar house statues of the Buddha. The Burmese Indians include Myanmar Tamils, Bengalis, Odias etc.\n\nThe majority of the Meitei (or Manipuri) in Myanmar practice Hinduism. They are descendants of forced labourers taken from Manipur during the Manipuri–Burmese war from 1819 to 1825. Manipuris are concentrated in about 13 villages in the Mandalay, Sagaing and Amarapura areas. Manipuri settlements are also found along the Ningthi river, and the areas sandwiched between the river and the boundary of Manipur.\n\nMany Nepali-speaking Burmese Gurkha in Myanmar also practice Hinduism. Burmese Gurkha came along with British Army during colonial period.There are approximately 250 Hindu Temples build by Burmese Gurkha in and across country which of 30 temples are in Mandalay Region of Mogok City alone. Apparent there are three to five temples which are over 100 years old. \nA small minority of predominantly-Muslim Rohingya people also practice Hinduism.\n\nEthnic data was last collected in Myanmar for the 1983 Census, and the census department didn't published stats related to ethnicity after that. Back in 1983, there were 428,428 Indians, 42,140 Pakistanis, 567,985 Rohingya and 28,506 Nepalis. Due to the mutual overlap in religious traditions, it is possible that some of the Hindus among these ethnicities reported as Buddhist during the 1983 Census. This may explain the low number of Hindus reported in 1983 (177,215).\n\nAs per the 1983 Census report, among the ethnic Indians 27.10% reported themselves as Buddhist, 33.64% as Hindu, 32.71% as Muslim, 4.44% as Christian and 2.10% as Others. Among the ethnic Burmese, the census reported three thousand Hindus. Out of the 174,401 Hindus reported in 1983, the ethnicity was as follows: Indian - 143,545, Chinese - 43, Mixed race - 4,882, Pakistani - 567, Bangladeshi - 865, Nepalese - 17,410, Other foreigners - 679, Kachin -48, Kayah - 3, Karen - 55, Chin - 155, Burmese - 2,988, Mon - 27, Rakhine - 99, Shan - 69 and other indigenous - 2,966.\n\nAspects of Hinduism continue in Burma today, even in the majority Buddhist culture. For example, Thagyamin is worshipped whose origins are in the Hindu god Indra. Burmese literature has also been enriched by Hinduism, including the Burmese adaptation of the Ramayana, called Yama Zatdaw. Many Hindu gods are likewise worshipped by many Burmese people, such as Saraswati (known as Thuyathadi in Burmese), the goddess of knowledge, who is often worshipped before examinations; Shiva is called \"Paramizwa\"; Vishnu is called \"Withano\", and others. Many of these ideas are part of thirty seven Nat or deities found in Burmese culture.\n\nIn modern Myanmar, most Hindus are found in the urban centres of Yangon and Mandalay. Ancient Hindu temples are present in other parts of Burma, such as the 11th century Nathlaung Kyaung Temple dedicated to Vishnu in Bagan.\n\nISKCON(Hare Krishna) has a presence in Myanmar.The largest hare Krishna community is in Myitkyina which has about 400 Hare Krishna followers.\n\nDeepavali is a public holiday in Myanmar.\n\nAfter independence from Britain, Burma Socialist Programme Party under Ne Win adopted xenophobic policies and expelled 300,000 Indian ethnic people (many of whom were Hindus and included Sikhs Buddhists and Muslims), along with 100,000 Chinese, from Burma between 1963 and 1967.\nOn 25 August 2017, the villages in a cluster known as Kha Maung Seik in northern Maungdaw District of Rakhine State in Myanmar were attacked by Rohingya Muslims of Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA).This was called Kha Maung Seik massacre. Amnesty International said that about 99 Hindus were killed in that day.\nDue to these, many Rohingya Hindus have started identifying themselves as Chittagonian Hindus rather than Rohingyas. In Myanmar and in Bangladeshi refugee camps—according to some media accounts—Hindu Rohingyas (particularly women) faced kidnapping, religious abuse and \"forced conversions\" at the hands of Muslim Rohingyas.\n\nMyanmar Hindu Central Council and Sanatan Dharma Swayamsevak Sangh are the two largest Hindu organizations in Myanmar.\n\nAll Myanmar Gurkha Hindu Religious Association is another Hindu organisation representing Gurkha Hindus.ISKCON has 12 centres in Myanmar and a school in Zayyawadi which provides religious education to brahmacharis\n\n"}
{"id": "1947484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947484", "title": "Hinduism in Thailand", "text": "Hinduism in Thailand\n\nHinduism is a minority religion in Thailand followed by 0.03% of its population. Despite being a Bhuddist majority nation, Thailand has a very strong Hindu influence.The popular Thai epic Ramakien is based on the Ramayana. The Emblem of Thailand depicted Garuda who is the vahana of Vishnu.\n\nA number of Hindus remain in Thailand. They are mostly located in the cities. In the past, the nation came under the influence of the Khmer Empire, which had strong Hindu roots. Despite the fact that today Thailand is a Buddhist majority nation, many elements of Thai culture and symbolism demonstrates Hindu influences and heritage. For example, the popular epic, Ramakien, is based on the Ramayana. The Royal emblem of Thailand depicted Garuda, the vahana (vehicle) of Vishnu.\n\nThe Thai city, Ayutthaya near Bangkok, is named after Ayodhya, the birthplace of Rama. Numerous rituals derived from Brahmanism are preserved in rituals, such as the use of holy strings and pouring of water from conch shells. Furthermore, Hindu deities are worshipped by many Thais alongside Buddhism, such as Brahma at the famous Erawan Shrine, and statues of Ganesh, Indra, and Shiva, as well as numerous symbols relating to Hindu deities are found, e.g., Garuda, a symbol of the monarchy. Reliefs in temple walls, such as the 12th-century \"Prasat Sikhoraphum\" near Surin (Thailand), show a dancing Shiva, with smaller images of Parvati, Vishnu, Brahma and Ganesha.\n\nThe Devasathan is a Hindu temple established in 1784 by King Rama I. The temple is the centre of Brahminism in Thailand. The royal court Brahmins operate the temple, they perform several royal ceremonies per year.\nAn annual Giant Swing ceremony known as \"Triyampavai-Tripavai\" was held in major cities of Thailand until 1935, when it was abolished for safety reasons. The name of the ceremony was derived from the names of two Tamil language Hindu chants: \"Thiruvempavai\" and \"Thiruppavai\". It is known that Tamil verses from \"Thiruvempavai\" — \"poet pratu sivalai\" (\"opening the portals of Shiva's home\") — were recited at this ceremony, as well as the coronation ceremony of the Thai king. According to T.P. Meenakshisundaram, the name of the festival indicates that Thiruppavai might have been recited as well. The swinging ceremony depicted a legend about how the god created the world. Outside shops, particularly in towns and rural areas, statues of Nang Kwak as the deity of wealth, fortune and prosperity (version of Lakshmi) are found.\n\nThe elite, and the royal household, often employ Brahmins to mark funerals and state ceremonies such as the Royal Ploughing Ceremony to ensure a good harvest. The importance of Hinduism cannot be denied, even though much of the rituals has been combined with Buddhism.\n\nAccording to the Thai Census of 2005, there are 52,631 Hindus living in Thailand, making up just 0.09% of the total population.\n\nThailand has two ethnic Thai Brahmin communities-Brahm Luang (Royal Brahmins) and Brahm Chao Baan (folk Brahmins). The Brahm Luang(Royal Brahmins) mainly perform royal ceremonies of the Thai King. They belong to the long family bloodline of Brahmins in Thailand. The Brahm Chao Baan or folk Brahmins are the category of Brahmins who are not from a bloodline of priests. Generally, these Brahmins have a small knowledge about the rituals and ceremonies. The Devasathan is the centre of Brahmin activity in Thailand. It was built more than 200 years ago. Apart from this there are also Indian Brahmins from India who migrated to Thailand.\n\nDuring the Sukhothai and Ayutthaya periods, evidence of the presence of sizable number of Indians in the Thai court is described by a number of western travelers. However most of the contemporary Indians came to Thailand after 1920, and during the first half of the 19th century.\n\nThe Mariamman Temple, Bangkok is the first temple built in the South Indian architecture.It was built in 1879 by Vaithi Padayatchi,a Tamil Hindu immigrant.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Thailand census there are 41,808 Hindus in Thailand constituting 0.06% of the population. In the 2015 census this population decreased to 22,110 or 0.03%.\n\nHowever the Pew research data found that Hinduism constituted 0.1% of the Thai population in 2014 and is also fastest growing religion in Thailand. The Pew research data reports that the Hindu population is expected to increase from 0.1% in 2014 to 0.2% by 2050\n\n"}
{"id": "1947493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947493", "title": "KroniK", "text": "KroniK\n\nKroniK was an American professional wrestling tag team in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), composed of Brian Adams and Bryan Clark.\n\nAdams and Clark first joined together as a duo in April 2000 in World Championship Wrestling (WCW). Upon joining together as a tag team, Kronik (originally spelled Kronic) assisted Vince Russo in his vision of a clean sweep for his New Blood alliance at the 2000 Spring Stampede pay-per-view. Adams and Clark interfered in the WCW World Tag Team Championship match, allowing the team of Buff Bagwell and Shane Douglas to win the title.\n\nWhile in WCW, Kronik moved between babyface and heel roles several times - holding the WCW Tag Team Championship twice. In the final months of WCW, Kronik became hired muscle, adopting the catch phrase \"\"breakin' necks and cashin' checks\"\", similar to the WWE's popular APA tag team. Their contracts were not picked up by WWF when WCW was sold by Time Warner.\n\nIn September 2001, Brian Adams and Bryan Clark each made their re-debut as a World Wrestling Federation (WWF) tag team. Recruited by Stevie Richards, Kronik was called in to settle past differences Richards had with The Undertaker, stemming from the disbanding of Richards' stable, \"Right to Censor\" earlier that year. Kronik wrestled their first tag team match defeating Kaientai on the September 20, 2001 episode of \"SmackDown\" and their last tag team match for WWF a few days later at Unforgiven, losing to then WCW Tag Team Champions The Brothers of Destruction (Kane and The Undertaker).\n\nAfter two dark matches, four appearances on Raw and Smackdown and a pay-per-view appearance, Clark was released from his contract for being unconditioned and unsafe during their PPV match, while Adams began working for the Heartland Wrestling Association, which served as WWF's developmental territory, for conditioning. Adams requested his release from the WWF in November 2001, he and Clark reformed KroniK made a number of appearances on the independent circuit, most prominently for World Wrestling All-Stars and All Japan Pro Wrestling. During their time in AJPW, they defeated Keiji Mutoh and Taiyō Kea for the World Tag Team Championship on July 17, 2002. KroniK were later stripped of the title due to contract problems. They wrestled their last match together in January 2003, losing to Goldberg and Keiji Mutoh. \n\nFollowing their WWF departure, KroniK joined up with World Wrestling All-Stars and appeared on their second pay-per-view: Revolution defeating Navajo Warrior and Ghost Walker in less than five minutes.\n\nThe team then joined All Japan Pro Wrestling in the summer of 2002 and made an immediate impact defeating Keiji Mutoh and Taiyo Kea for the World Tag Team Championship on July 17, 2002. They would only make one successful title defense against Mike Barton and Jim Steele on August 30, 2002 before being stripped of the titles in October as they cancelled their appearances.\n\nThey returned for the WRESTLE-1 show on January 19, 2003 losing to Keiji Muto and Goldberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947499", "title": "Electrical equipment", "text": "Electrical equipment\n\nElectrical equipment includes any machine powered by electricity. It usually consists of an enclosure, a variety of electrical components, and often a power switch. Examples of these include:\n\nMore specifically, electrical equipment refers to the individual components of an electrical distribution system. These components may involve:\n\n"}
{"id": "1947500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947500", "title": "Loch Lyon", "text": "Loch Lyon\n\nLoch Lyon (Scottish Gaelic, \"Loch Lìobhann\") is a freshwater loch in Glen Lyon, located in Perthshire, Scotland, which feeds the River Lyon, a tributary of the River Tay. Loch Lyon lies in Glen Lyon, that is the longest enclosed Glen in Scotland, stretching over 30 miles from Fortingall in the east to Loch Lyon in the west. Sir Walter Scott described Glen Lyon as the \"longest, loneliest and loveliest glen in Scotland\".\n\nThe original natural loch was much expanded by a hydro-electric dam, part of the North of Scotland Hydro-Electric Board's Breadalbane scheme.\n"}
{"id": "1947513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947513", "title": "Bill Mosienko", "text": "Bill Mosienko\n\nWilliam Mosienko (November 2, 1921 – July 9, 1994) was a Ukrainian Canadian professional ice hockey right winger who played 14 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Chicago Black Hawks. He is best noted for recording the fastest hat trick in NHL history. In a 1952 game against the New York Rangers, Mosienko scored three goals in 21 seconds.\n\nIn the NHL, Mosienko won the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy in 1945 as the most gentlemanly player in the league, played in five All-Star Games and was twice named to the second All-Star Team. He left the league in 1955 to help bring professional hockey to his hometown of Winnipeg. He helped create the Winnipeg Warriors of the Western Hockey League and was a three-time All-Star in his four years of play in the league. He won the league championship in 1956.\n\nMosienko was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1965 and into the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame and Museum in 1980.\n\nMosienko was born on November 2, 1921 in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He was one of 14 children, having nine brothers and four sisters. His father was a Ukrainian immigrant and worked as a boilermaker with the Canadian Pacific Railway. Mosienko grew up in Winnipeg's north end.\n\nHe developed a passion for hockey and began playing at the age of 10 with the Tobans and later Sherburn athletic clubs. At 17, he sought to try out with the St. James Canadians junior team in 1939 and after being told he was too young, instead joined the Winnipeg Monarchs.\n\nChicago Blackhawks player Joe Cooper discovered Mosienko playing on outdoor rinks in Winnipeg and recommended that Hawks management sign him. Mosienko signed with Chicago at the age of 18 and was assigned to their minor league team, the Kansas City Americans. In his first two seasons, he split time between the Americans, the Providence Reds and the Blackhawks. The Blackhawks first recalled Mosienko in 1942, replacing players who had left to fight World War II. He scored his first two NHL goals on February 9, 1942, 21 seconds apart.\n\nExempted from military service for medical reasons likely related to his small size, Mosienko was unable to cross into the United States as a result of travel restrictions and played the 1942–43 season primarily with the Quebec Aces of the Quebec Senior Hockey League. He appeared in two games when the Hawks traveled to Toronto. He finally established himself as an NHL regular in 1943–44 and scored a career high 70 points. Mosienko and his linemates Clint Smith and Doug Bentley combined to score 219 points, at that time an NHL record. His 70 points set a team rookie record that stood for 37 years until broken by Denis Savard in 1980–81.\n\nIn 1944–45, Mosienko finished sixth in league scoring with 54 points and did not record a single penalty minute throughout the course of the season. He was awarded the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy as the NHL's most gentlemanly player and named a Second-Team All-Star. He was also voted the most popular player on the team by its fans.\n\nThe following season, Chicago coach Johnny Gottselig paired Mosienko with the Bentley brothers: Max and Doug. The trio formed what came to be known as the \"Pony Line\" due to their speed and small size and emerged as one of the top scoring trios in the NHL. Max Bentley led the league in scoring in 1945–46, and despite missing time with a knee injury, Mosienko finished sixth. He was again named a Second-Team All-Star. He played in the first National Hockey League All-Star Game prior to the start of the 1947–48 season, during which he suffered a broken leg and was initially feared lost for the year. He ultimately missed the first two months of play, while the Pony Line was broken up for good shortly after his injury when Max Bentley was traded to the Toronto Maple Leafs.\n\nMosienko remained a key contributor to the Blackhawks offence, appearing in five All-Star Games during his career. His most famous moment came on March 23, 1952, in a game against the New York Rangers on the final night of the regular season. He scored three goals in a 21-second span of the third period against New York's Lorne Anderson to set a new record for the fastest hat-trick by one player. Linemate Gus Bodnar assisted on all three goals, and he nearly had a fourth goal 45 seconds later on a shot that deflected off the goalpost. Mosienko's feat remains an NHL record.\n\nDue to his small size, Mosienko was a frequent target of physical abuse from larger opponents, and suffered numerous injuries as a result. Despite this, he refrained from retaliation and was well regarded across the league for his gentlemanly conduct. In 14 NHL seasons, he totaled only 121 penalty minutes and had just one fight.\n\nMosienko left the NHL in 1955 and joined fellow player Alf Pike in bringing professional hockey back to Winnipeg. They joined the new Winnipeg Warriors of the Western Hockey League. He led the Warriors to the President's Cup championship in the team's first year of 1955–56 and helped the Warriors defeat the Quebec Hockey League's Montreal Royals for the Edinburgh Trophy, Canada's minor professional championship. He scored two goals in the deciding sixth game of a 3–1 victory to capture the trophy. He was named to the WHL All-Star Team three times: 1957, 1958 and 1959. Though he scored 88 points in the 1958–59 season, Mosienko announced his retirement after 18 seasons of professional hockey. He coached the team for one season in 1959–60.\n\nAt the time of his retirement from the NHL, Mosienko was seventh all-time in league scoring with 540 points. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1965, and to the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame and Museum in 1980. Additionally, Mosienko is honoured by the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame and in 2000 was named to its provincial All-Century First All-Star Team.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Mosienko and Joe Cooper operated a string of bowling alleys in Winnipeg, one of which continues to be operated by his family. He was a supporter of Winnipeg minor hockey and Manitoba oldtimers associations. There is an arena named in Mosienko's honor in his hometown of Winnipeg.\n\nMosienko died of cancer in Winnipeg in 1994 at the age of 72. He had a wife, Wanda, two sons and one daughter. His grandson, Tyler, is also a professional hockey player. The younger Mosienko remembers his grandfather as a humble man who would join him on the family's backyard rink when he was learning to skate as a child.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947526", "title": "Telegraphic speech", "text": "Telegraphic speech\n\nTelegraphic speech, according to linguistics and psychology, is speech during the two-word stage of language acquisition in children, which is laconic and efficient.\n\nThe name derives from the fact that someone sending a telegram was generally charged by the word. To save money, people typically wrote their telegrams in a very compressed style, without conjunctions or articles. As children develop language, they speak similarly: when a child says \"Daddy here\", it is understood that the child means \"Daddy is here\", omitting the copula. The words dropped in this style of speech are closed class or function words.\n\nIn the field of psychology, telegraphic speech is defined as a form of communication consisting of simple two-word long sentences often composed of a noun and a verb that adhere to the grammatical standards of the culture's language. For example, an English-speaking child would say \"Give cupcake\" to express that they would like a cupcake rather than \"Cupcake give\", as a Turkish- or Japanese-speaking child would. Researchers have noted that this period of language acquisition occurs some time between the ages of 18–36 months and is present not just in English-speaking cultures, but can be found worldwide.\n\nIn adults, regression to telegraphic speech may indicate a neurological problem such as multiple sclerosis. Telegraphic speech is also common in non-fluent aphasia (Broca's aphasia), which is caused by a stroke damaging the posterior-inferior frontal lobe. It is also a potential symptom of schizophrenia, as a manifestation of manneristic speech.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947528", "title": "Windows Live OneCare", "text": "Windows Live OneCare\n\nWindows Live OneCare (previously Windows OneCare Live, codenamed A1) was a computer security and performance enhancement service developed by Microsoft for Windows. A core technology of OneCare was the multi-platform RAV (Reliable Anti-virus), which Microsoft purchased from GeCAD Software Srl in 2003, but subsequently discontinued. The software was available as an annual paid subscription, which could be used on up to three computers.\n\nOn 18 November 2008, Microsoft announced that Windows Live OneCare would be discontinued on 30 June 2009 and will instead be offering users a new free anti-malware suite called Microsoft Security Essentials to be available before then. However, virus definitions and support for OneCare would continue until a subscription expires. In the end-of-life announcement, Microsoft noted that Windows Live OneCare would not be upgraded to work with Windows 7 and would also not work in Windows XP Mode.\n\nWindows Live OneCare entered a beta state in the summer of 2005. The managed beta program was launched before the public beta, and was located on BetaPlace, Microsoft's former beta delivery system. On 31 May 2006, Windows Live OneCare made its official debut in retail stores in the United States.\n\nThe beta version of Windows Live OneCare 1.5 was released in early October 2006 by Microsoft. Version 1.5 was released to manufacturing on 3 January 2007 and was made available to the public on 30 January 2007. On 4 July 2007, beta testing started for version 2.0, and the final version was released on 16 November 2007.\n\nMicrosoft acquired Komoku on 20 March 2008 and merged its computer security software into Windows Live OneCare.\n\nWindows Live OneCare 2.5 (build 2.5.2900.28) final was released on 3 July 2008. On the same day, Microsoft also released Windows Live OneCare for Server 2.5.\n\nWindows Live OneCare features integrated anti-virus, personal firewall, and backup utilities, and a tune-up utility with the integrated functionality of Windows Defender for malware protection. A future addition of a registry cleaner was considered but not added because \"there are not significant customer advantages to this functionality\". Version 2 added features such as multi-PC and home network management, printer sharing support, start-time optimizer, proactive fixes and recommendations, monthly reports, centralized backup, and online photo backup.\n\nWindows Live OneCare is built for ease-of-use and is designed for home users. OneCare also attempts a very minimal interface to lessen user confusion and resource use. It adds an icon to the notification area that tells the user at a glance the status of the system's health by using three alert colors: green (good), yellow (fair), and red (at risk).\n\nVersion 1.5 of OneCare is only compatible with the 32 bit versions of Windows XP and Windows Vista. Version 2 of OneCare supports 64 bit compatibility to Vista. In version 2.5, Microsoft released Windows Live OneCare for Server which supports Windows Server 2008 Standard 64-bit and Windows Small Business Server 2008 Standard and Premium editions. No edition of OneCare operates in safe mode. Windows Live OneCare will not support Windows 7 as its development has been discontinued and replaced by Microsoft Security Essentials.\n\nWindows Live OneCare requires users to activate the product if they wish to continue using it after the free trial period (90 days) through a valid Windows Live ID. When the product is activated, the grey message bar at the top of the program disappears. The subscription remains active for 1 year from the date of activation. Windows Live OneCare does not require the operating system to be checked with Windows Genuine Advantage.\n\nWindows Live OneCare Protection Plus is the security component in the OneCare suite. It consists of three parts:\n\nWindows Live OneCare 1.5 onwards also monitors Internet Explorer 7 and 8 security settings and ensures that the automatic website checking feature of the Phishing Filter is enabled.\n\nWindows Live OneCare Performance Plus is the component that performs monthly PC tune-up related tasks, such as:\n\nWindows Live OneCare Backup and Restore is the component that aids in backing up important files. Files can be backed up to various recordable media, such as external hard disks, CDs, and DVDs. When restoring files, the entirety or a subset of them can also be restored to a networked computer, as long as it's running OneCare as well. The Backup and Restore component supports backup software features such as incremental backups and scheduling.\n\nWindows Live OneCare has been criticized from both users and competing security software companies.\n\nMicrosoft's acquisition of GeCAD RAV, a core technology of OneCare, and their subsequent discontinuation of that product, deprived the GNU/Linux platform (and others) of one of its leading virus scanning tools for e-mail servers, bringing Microsoft's ultimate intentions into question.\n\nOn 26 January 2006, Windows Live OneCare was criticized by Foundstone (a division of the competing McAfee anti-virus) for the integrated firewall having default white lists which allow Java applications and digitally signed software to bypass user warnings, since neither of those applications carry assurances that they will not have security flaws or be written with a malicious intent. Microsoft has since responded to the criticism, justifying their decision in that Java applications are \"\"widely used by third party applications, and is a popular and trusted program among our users\"\", and that \"\"it is highly unusual for malware to be signed.\"\"\n\nWindows Live OneCare has also been criticized for the lack of adherence to industry firewall standards concerning intrusion detection. Tests conducted by Agnitum (the developers of Outpost Firewall) have shown OneCare failing to detect trojans and malware which hijack applications already resident on an infected machine.\n\nIn February 2007, the first Windows Vista anti-virus product testing by Virus Bulletin magazine (a sister company of Sophos, the developers of Sophos Anti-Virus) found that Windows Live OneCare failed to detect 18.6% of viruses. Fifteen anti-virus products were tested. To pass the Virus Bulletin's VB100 test, an anti-virus product has to detect 100% of the viruses.\n\nAV-Comparatives also released results that placed Windows Live OneCare last in its testing of seventeen anti-virus products. In response, Jimmy Kuo of the Microsoft Security Research and Response (MSRR) team pledged to add \"truly important\" (\"actively being spread\") malware as soon as possible, while \"[test detection] numbers will get better and better\" for other malware \"until they are on par with the other majors in this arena.\" He also expressed confidence in these improvements: \"Soon after, [other majors] will need to catch up to us!\"\n\nAs of April 2008, Windows Live OneCare has passed the VB100 test under Windows Vista SP1 Business Edition. As of August 2008, Windows Live OneCare placed 14th out of 16 anti-virus products in on-demand virus detection rates. On the other hand, as of May 2009, Windows Live OneCare placed 2nd in a proactive/retrospective performance test conducted by AV-Comparatives. AV-Comparatives.org, the test issuer, denotes that it had \"very few false alarms, which is a very good achievement.\" The publisher also points out that false positives can cause as much harm as genuine infections, and furthermore, anti-virus scanners prone to false alarms essentially achieve higher detection scores.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947529", "title": "Brisbane Trades Hall", "text": "Brisbane Trades Hall\n\nThe Brisbane Trades Hall is a former Trades Hall building in Edward Street Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.\n\nThe foundation stone of the original trades hall in Turbot Street, Brisbane, was laid on 4 April 1891 by Sir Charles Lilley. There was a procession of unionists from Ann Street, along Queen Street and then up Edward Street to the building site. However, by the 1920s, a larger building was needed as the labour movement had succeeding in unionising about two-thirds of the workforce.\n\nFollowing on from the extension of the railway line and tunnel underway from Roma Street in 1889 to Central Station, concern with the weight of the first Trades Hall over the tunnel resulted in land resumption, with a new site selected at Upper Edward Street. \n\nThe foundation stone of the second trades hall was laid on 1 May 1920 by the Queensland Lieutenant-Governor William Lennon. The site was on Turbot Street looking down Edward Street, adjacent to Jacob's Ladder.\n\nThe building was used by the Queensland trade union movement for meetings, offices, social and educational events, and is the location of the Trades and Labour Council, now known as the Queensland Council of Unions. In the late 1960s, part of the building housed the FOCO club and bookshop, where the group Society for Democratic Action (SDA) met.\n\nIn 1984 the Trades and Labour Council, as the board of management, sold the property and moved to a new property at Peel Street, South Brisbane. As the original property was granted for the specific purpose of being used as a Trades Hall, the \"Brisbane Trades Hall Management Act 1984\" was required to be passed authorising the transaction, with planning controls on the use of the original historic building.\n\nThe building was subsequently demolished and the site is now occupied by the high-rise IBM building.\n"}
{"id": "1947534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947534", "title": "List of high schools in Vermont", "text": "List of high schools in Vermont\n\nThis is a list of 84 high schools in the state of Vermont.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947541", "title": "Queensland Legislative Council", "text": "Queensland Legislative Council\n\nThe Queensland Legislative Council was the upper house of the parliament in the Australian state of Queensland. It was a fully nominated body which first took office on 1 May 1860. It was abolished by the Constitution Amendment Act 1921, which took effect on 23 March 1922.\n\nConsequently, the Legislative Assembly of Queensland is the only unicameral state Parliament in Australia. Two territories, the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory, also maintain unicameral parliaments.\n\nMost of the early members of the Council came from wealthy families, were well educated and were born in England. Absenteeism was a problem in the early years, with some members returning to England, being absent for several years.\n\nThe Legislative Council was seen by the Labor Party as undemocratic and a tool of patronage, and upon the establishment of a secure Labor majority in the Assembly in 1915, Labor sought the house's abolition. Bills for this purpose were rejected by the Council itself in 1915 and 1916, and a referendum failed on 5 May 1917 on a vote of 179,105 to 116,196. In 1920, the Government under Premier Ted Theodore changed tack, persuading the Governor of Queensland to appoint additional Labor members of the Council, thus securing a majority in that Chamber.\n\nThe abolition bill was eventually passed by the Assembly on a 51–15 vote on 24 October 1921. The bill was then introduced to the Council by the leader of the Government in the Council, Alfred James Jones, who remarked, \"Until we had a majority here, [the Council] was obstructive, and now that we have a majority here it is useless.\" However, Opposition councillor Patrick Leahy protested that the abolition of the chamber would result in the Assembly being \"able to do what it thinks fit\" and becoming unaccountable. On 26 October 1921, the Council voted itself out of existence; the members who voted for the abolition were known as the \"suicide squad\". The Council rose for the last time at 8:37 p.m. the next evening.\n\nThe non-Labor parties petitioned the British Government, but the Colonial Secretary, Winston Churchill, concluded that the matter was \"essentially one for determination locally\", and the Governor felt \"unable to say that there is evidence of any strong or widespread feeling in the country against this assent being given.\" Royal Assent was given on 3 March 1922, and the Act was proclaimed in the Government Gazette 20 days later, abolishing the Council.\n\nLabor's view was summed up in 1980 by Labor politician and historian Dr Denis Murphy, who claimed the \"dominance of wealth and property over the Queensland parliament\" was broken. However, some scholars and political commentators have argued that the excesses of the Bjelke-Petersen years (1968–1987) in Queensland were only possible because of the absence of a house of review, and that the problem was not the Council itself but its existence as a nominated rather than elected body (Legislative Councils in all other states were fully elective by 1900, except in New South Wales where some nominative features lasted until the 1970s.)\n\nSeveral independents have at various times supported the reintroduction of an upper house. The Queensland Greens support the reintroduction of an upper house elected by proportional representation. Neither major party currently supports the reintroduction of an upper house.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947543", "title": "Shaking the Tree: Sixteen Golden Greats", "text": "Shaking the Tree: Sixteen Golden Greats\n\nShaking the Tree: Sixteen Golden Greats is a compilation album by the English rock musician Peter Gabriel. It was released in 1990 as Gabriel's first career retrospective, including songs from his first solo album \"Peter Gabriel\" (I or \"Car\") (1977), through \"\" (1989). It was remastered with most of Gabriel's catalogue in 2002.\n\nThe tracks are creatively re-ordered, ignoring chronology. Some of the tracks were different from the album versions. New parts were recorded for several tracks in Gabriel's Real World Studios. Most songs are edited for time, either as radio, single, or video edit versions. \"Shaking the Tree\"—a track from Youssou N'Dour's 1989 album \"The Lion\"—is a 1990 version featuring new vocals from Gabriel. \"I Have the Touch\" is listed as a 1983 remix, although it is actually the 1985 remix which appeared on the \"Sledgehammer\" single. (The 1985 remix is similar to the 1983 remix, which appeared as the B-side of the \"Walk Through The Fire\" single, but is edited down to 3m 45s long, as here.)\n\n\"Here Comes the Flood\" is a new recording from 1990. This version is a piano and voice arrangement, that is far simpler than the highly produced version on \"Peter Gabriel\" (1977). Its sparseness is closer to the version that Gabriel recorded with Robert Fripp on Fripp's \"Exposure\" (1979). In interviews, Gabriel has said that he preferred the 1979 version, and it was that version with Fripp that he chose to overdub in German as the flipside of the single \"Biko\" released before \"Ein deutsches Album\" (1980).\n\nAlthough this album highlights songs from Peter Gabriel's earlier albums, tracks from \"Peter Gabriel\" (II, or \"Scratch\") and the soundtrack to the film \"Birdy\" are not included. \"In Your Eyes\" is notably missing from the compilation. \"Say Anything...\", in which it was played in a prominent scene, had been released the year before. Although this made \"In Your Eyes\" perhaps the most well known Peter Gabriel song aside from \"Sledgehammer\", it failed to crack the top 20 and was thus omitted from the album in favour of five of the other eight tracks from \"So\"—four other hits and album track \"Mercy Street\".\n\nNOTE: All tracks marked with * are not on the vinyl release of the album.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947544", "title": "Nellyville", "text": "Nellyville\n\nNellyville is the second studio album by American rapper Nelly. It was released on June 25, 2002, by Universal Records and the indie label Fo' Reel. Recording sessions took place over a course of the whole year, with Nelly himself, alongside Kevin Law and C-Love serving as the records executive producers. The album includes the production by Jay E, who frequently did most work with Nelly, while the additional production was provided by The Neptunes and Just Blaze. The album was supported by six singles: \"#1\", \"Hot in Herre\", \"Dilemma\" duet with Kelly Rowland, \"Air Force Ones\" featuring St. Lunatics, \"Work It\" featuring Justin Timberlake, and \"Pimp Juice\". The singles \"Hot in Herre\" and \"Dilemma\" both topped the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for seven and ten weeks, respectively.\n\n\"Nellyville\" debuted at number one on the US \"Billboard\" 200, selling 715,000 copies in its opening week. The album stayed atop the chart for four non-consecutive weeks and became certified six-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipments of over six million copies, making this Nelly's second number-one album, second multi-platinum album, and second top ten in the United States, following his debut album \"Country Grammar\" in 2000. Internationally, \"Nellyville\" peaked at number 2 in Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand and United Kingdom. As of March 16, 2011, the album sold 6,488,000 copies in the United States, and it became the 14th best-selling rap album of all time.\n\nNelly himself, alongside Kevin Law and C-Love was serving as the executive producers on \"Nellyville\". The majority of this recording was perfected by Steve Eigner, who was assisted by Marc Lee. Rich Travali was assisted by Jeff Robinette, while Jamie Duncan and Dan Milazzo were performing the mixing on the album. Audio mastering was done by Herb Powers, with A&R directed by Law and coordinated by Jennifer Havey. Art direction was done by Sandy Brummels with Robert Sims undertaking design and Jonathan Mannion handling photography. Road management was executed by Keith Brent, with additional management done so by Tony Davis, Courtney Benson and Team Lunatics. Legality was handled by Richard Grable and Tim Mandelbaum. Several artists made an appearance on the album, including Justin Timberlake, Kelly Rowland, Beanie Sigel, Freeway and Dani Stevenson.\n\n\"Nellyville\" received generally positive reviews from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album has received an average score of 70, based on 15 reviews, which indicates \"generally favorable reviews\". Wayne Franklin of PopMatters held low expectations for the album prior to listening to it, following Nelly's feud with rapper KRS-One, but found its music to be \"incredible\". Wayne lauded the track \"Air Force One\", describing it as an \"unbelievable ode\" to hip hop, while noting several other songs as stand-outs. Allmusic's Jason Birchmeier gave the album three-and-a-half stars out of five, noting \"Hot in Herre\", \"Dilemma\" and \"Roc the Mic\" as \"three well-calculated, standout moments\". Birchmeier praised \"Hot in Herre\"'s production, \"Roc the Mic\"'s hip hop composition and the \"Dilemma\"'s interpolation of Patti LaBelle's \"Love, Need and Want You\". RapReviews.com's Steve Juon gave \"Nellyville\" an 8.5 out of ten, citing the album's consistency and production, praising \"Hot in Herre\" for its Midwestern drawl and \"harmonious musical flow\". Giving the album a B+, Tom Sinclair of \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised several new additions to Nelly's vocal style, summarizing: \"If you like your rap loose and funny, Nelly's the man for you\".\n\n\"NME\" Dele Fadele saw \"Nellyville\" as Nelly's \"reply to the haters\"; Fadele described the album as a \"glossy, well-produced album of populist anthems with a gangsta undertow\" that expands his perspective of the world and \"celebrates success\". Though Fadele wasn't impressed at the Justin Timberlake featured track \"Work It\", calling the song a \"silly pop-directed collaboration\". \"The A.V. Club\" Nathan Rabin praised \"Nellyville\" for achieving similar universal appeal to Nelly's previous effort \"Country Grammar\", which achieved it with songs such as its self-titled track and \"E.I.\". Rabin criticized Timberlake's \"high-schooler doing a Bee Gees impersonation\" on \"Work It\", though noted the song as the only \"glaring misstep\" on the album. \"People\" lauded \"Hot in Herre\" for its \"funky go-go groove\", declaring it the \"perfect summer jam\", but were ambivalent towards the rest of the album's beats for being slightly repetitive. \"Rolling Stone\" Rob Marriott described Nelly as a \"gifted, witty MC\" with the \"catchiest rhymes to ever hit the pop charts\" but wrote that \"Nellyville\" sounds \"weighted down\" by the commercial pressure of having to have another multi-platinum album.\n\nAt the 2003's Grammy Awards, \"Nellyville\" was nominated for Album of the Year, \"Hot in Herre\" for Best Male Rap Solo Performance and \"Dilemma\" for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration; both songs won their respective nominations, with \"Nellyville\" losing out to Norah Jones' \"Come Away with Me\" (2002). Nelly received three BET Award nominations such as Best Male Hip-Hop Artist, Best Collaboration (for \"Dilemma\") and Video of the Year (for \"Hot in Herre\"). At the 2003's American Music Awards, Nelly was nominated for Favorite Pop/Rock Male Artist and the Fan's Choice Award, while \"Nellyville\" was nominated for Favorite Pop/Rock Album and Favorite Hip/Hop/R&B Album, with Nelly winning the Fan's Choice Award. Nelly received six awards at the 2002's Billboard Music Awards, winning the awards for Artist of the Year, Male Artist of the Year, Hot 100 Singles Male Artist of the Year, R&B/Hip-Hop Male Artist of the Year, Rap Artist of the Year and Rap Track of the Year (for \"Hot in Herre\"). On the 2002's \"Billboard\" year-end charts, the album was ranked third on the \"Billboard\" 200 and the Top R&B/Hip Hop Albums charts.\n\nThe album debuted at #1 on the US Billboard 200, selling 715,000 copies, outperforming Nelly's previous effort \"Country Grammar\" (2000), which debuted at number 3 selling 235,000 copies. With the single, \"Hot in Herre\" debuting at #1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 that week, Nelly was in possession of the top spot on 10 different \"Billboard\" charts. Within 2 weeks of its release, \"Nellyville\" remained atop the \"Billboard\" 200, selling 450,000 and 340,000 copies, respectively, surpassing 1.5 million copies in sales in its 3rd week. In its fourth week, \"Nellyville\" replaced atop the chart by Dave Matthews Band's \"Busted Stuff\". The former album was positioned at #2 on the \"Billboard\" 200, with its sales decreasing to 305,000 copies. In the 5th week, it sold 271,000 copies, dropping from #2 to #3, and in its sixth week, it sold 244,000 copies remaining at number 3. \"Nellville\" reached to #2 and sold 210,000 units in its 7th week of release and in its 8th week, topping the \"Billboard\" 200, accumulating to 4 non-consecutive weeks atop. The album sold 185,000 copies that week. \"Nellyville\" 4-week #1 run and sales were, according to \"Billboard\", largely in part to the success of the album's singles, \"Hot in Herre\" and \"Dilemma\". The former track was number one on the Hot 100 prior to the album's release, maintaining a third week atop the chart, when \"Nellville\" made its debut. The song topped the Hot 100 for 7 consecutive weeks before being replaced by its successor, \"Dilemma\", which topped the chart for 10 non-consecutive weeks, selling worldwide over 7.6 million copies. On June 25, 2002, \"Nellyville\" was certified Sex-tuple Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipments of over 6 million copies in the United States of America. On March 16, 2011, the album sold 6,490,000 copies in the United States, becoming the fourteenth best-selling rap album of all time.\n\n\"Nellyville\" debuted and peaked at #2 on the UK Albums Chart on the week of July 13, 2002, remaining on the chart for 40 weeks. On July 1, 2002, the album was certified Double Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), for shipments of 600,000 copies. On the Australian Albums Chart, it debuted and peaked at #2 for two weeks, staying within the top 10 for 16 non-consecutive weeks. The album dropped off the chart after 31 weeks, and was certified Triple Platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 210,000 copies. \"Nellyville\" also peaked at #2 on the New Zealand Albums Chart, Canadian Albums Chart and German Albums Chart. It remained on the chart in New Zealand for 30 weeks, in Canada for 18 weeks and in Germany for 33 weeks. It was certified Double and Quadruple Platinum by Recorded Music NZ and Music Canada, respectively; the album was certified Gold by the Bundesverband Musikindustrie (BVMI). \"Nellyville\" also achieved success in several other territories, peaking within the top ten in Ireland, Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, Switzerland, Norway, Austria and Belgian (Flanders). It was certified Gold by IFPI Austria and certified Platinum by IFPI Switzerland for shipments of 15,000 and 40,000 copies, respectively. The album reached at number 11 in Sweden and #25 in Belgium (Wallonia) and France. The Swedish Recording Industry Association (GLF) awarded the album a Gold certification, for shipments of over 30,000 copies.\n\n\"Nellyville\" was ranked as the 174th best album of all time on the \"Billboard Top 200 Albums of All Time\".\n\nSample credits\n\nCredits adapted from liner notes.\nMain artist\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nTechnical\n\n\nOther\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947545", "title": "Cetacean Conservation Center", "text": "Cetacean Conservation Center\n\nThe Cetacean Conservation Center (Centro de Conservación Cetacea or CCC) is a Chilean NGO dedicated to the conservation of cetaceans and other marine mammals that inhabit the coastal waters of Chile. The CCC also engages in public education and information campaigns at the national and regional level.\n\nCentro de Conservación Cetacea (CCC) is a Chilean non-governmental and non-profit organization that actively and effectively works on the conservation of marine mammals and their aquatic ecosystems in Chilean waters. The goals in support of this mission are:\n\n\nSince 2001, Centro de Conservacion Cetacea has conducted national marine conservation projects, including a wide range of areas like scientific research, public education, coastal community development and strengthening of marine conservation policies:\n\nCHILE 2002, Our Opportunity to Protect Life”, that reached over 140 thousand people of all the country with an educational exhibit of life size inflatable whales and sharks. As a result, the government of Chile strongly opposed proposals oriented to down list whale species from Appendix I and supported proposals oriented to include whale and basking sharks in CITES Appendix II, during the 12th Conference of the Parties of CITES conducted in Santiago de Chile.\n\n“Southern Right Whale Project/Chile”, a project that has been conducted since 2003 with the official support of the Chilean Navy and the cooperation of leading right whale conservation organizations from Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. In 2008 the southeast Pacific population of this species was classified as critically endangered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the Chilean Navy granted maximum level of protection to the species.\n\nMarine Mammal Sighting Network”, it has work effectively thanks to the support and cooperation of the Chilean Navy and more than 500 members that actively participate in recording of cetacean sightings and stranding events along the Chilean coast.\n\nAlfaguara project. It has consolidated as a scientific and coastal sustainable development project of national interest by receiving the official support of the Chilean Navy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education of Chile. The project has also identified the area with the highest sighting rate of blue whales in the Southern Hemisphere (northwestern Chiloé Island) and has raised international awareness regarding the health status of this blue whale population by describing skinny blue whales and skin lesions associated to coastal pollution from the salmon farming industry.\n\n“Chile 2008, A Whale Sanctuary”, that was conducted during eight months in conjunction with Centro Ecoceanos and the National Confederation of Artisan Fishers of Chile. As a result, the sanctuary was achieved in only eight months with the unanimous support by the Chilean Congress of the bill/law that bans all types of whaling operations in Chilean jurisdictional waters (EEZ) and sets the basis for consolidating a national marine conservation policy. This is the first marine protection policy adopted in Chilean history and the most important measure taken until date in the country for the effective conservation of cetacean species and their marine environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947546", "title": "Domenic Troiano", "text": "Domenic Troiano\n\nDomenic Michele Antonio Troiano (January 17, 1946 – May 25, 2005) was a Canadian rock guitarist, who was most notable for his contributions to Mandala, The James Gang, The Guess Who, and as a solo artist.\n\nBorn in Modugno, Italy, Troiano became a naturalized Canadian in 1955. He was raised in Toronto and began playing guitar at age 15. As a professional musician, he was a guitarist for Ronnie Hawkins, James Gang, The Guess Who, and Bush, among others.\n\nHis first group of note was Robbie Lane & The Disciples, who were hired en masse to back singer Ronnie Hawkins upon the departure of Levon and the Hawks. In 1965, Troiano joined The Rogues who became The Five Rogues and comprised: singer George Olliver, bass player Don Elliot, keyboard player Josef Chirowski and drummer Pentti Glan. In September 1966, the band changed its name to Mandala and recorded two singles, including the top ten hit, \"Opportunity\" in February 1967. Olliver and Chirowski left later that year and were replaced by Roy Kenner and organist Henry Babraj. With yet another organist, Hugh Sullivan, the group scored another big Canadian hit in 1968 with \"Love-itis\" on Atlantic Records and issued an LP, \"Soul Crusade\". The band formally broke up in June 1969, but Troiano, Kenner, Sullivan and Glan soon regrouped as Bush, with bassist Prakash John. Kenner also later sang in the James Gang with Troiano, who left in the mid-1970s to play with The Guess Who.\n\nTroiano started a solo career in the late 1970's. He performed with the Domenic Troiano Band and scored his biggest hit with the 1979 Disco-themed \"We All Need Love\". He also wrote music for television including the series \"Night Heat\". Songs composed by Troiano, such as \"I Can Hear You Calling\", have been performed by other artists including Three Dog Night. His guitar work can be heard on recordings by Moe Koffman, Joe Cocker, James Cotton and Long John Baldry. He also had a Canadian release with the band Black Market with the original Independent label El Mocambo Records. For nearly twenty-five years, beginning in the early 1980s, Troiano concentrated on contributing to the work of others, as a musician and as a producer, rather than enhancing his own solo career.\n\nTroiano was closely associated with the \"Toronto Sound\" of that era, contributed at least two songs to that genre:\n\"356 Sammon Ave.\" (1972), a short, instrumental tribute to his parents' former home in East York, and \"My Old Toronto Home\" (1973).\n\nDomenic Troiano's production credits include albums by Kilowatt, David Gibson, John Rutledge, and Patria. He was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1996.\n\nIn 2006, Troiano died of prostate cancer. In 2006, the Domenic Troiano Guitar Scholarship was initiated; the awarding panel consists of guitarists Bernie LaBarge, Alex Lifeson, Rik Emmett, Kevin Breit, Domenic's brother Frank Troiano, John Harris (head of The Harris Institute), and Jim Norris (editor of Canadian Musician magazine). In 2013, it was enlarged and renamed the Domenic Troiano Guitar Awards.\n\nIn 2017, Troiano's family donated a life-size reproduction of his Telecaster guitar to the refurbished historical building, the Brunswick House (Toronto).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947547", "title": "Plano, Missouri", "text": "Plano, Missouri\n\nPlano is an unincorporated community on former U.S. Route 66, now Route 266 in Greene County, Missouri, United States. The community is part of the Springfield, Missouri Metropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nA post office called Plano was established in 1895, and remained in operation until 1903. The name most likely is a transfer from Plano, Texas. Little remains of the original community.\n"}
{"id": "1947549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947549", "title": "Charles River Dam Bridge", "text": "Charles River Dam Bridge\n\nThe Charles River Dam Bridge, officially the Craigie Bridge, also called Craigie's Bridge or the Canal Bridge, is a six-lane bascule bridge across the Charles River in the West End neighborhood of Boston. The bridge, maintained by the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR, formerly the MDC), carries Massachusetts Route 28 (Charles River Dam Road at this location) next to the Green Line's Lechmere Viaduct. The Museum of Science is located on the dam and nearby piers. Charles River Dam Road connects Leverett Circle in the West End to East Cambridge, but most of the road is fixed, and the asymmetrically sited drawbridge is a short span entirely on the Boston side of the river.\n\nThe original lock for the Charles River was incorporated into the dam, just west of the Charles River Dam Bridge, but it was replaced by three parallel locks in the new Charles River Dam, located further east, at the site of the old Warren Bridge.\n\nThe former lock at the Charles River Dam Bridge now allows water and small ships to flow freely. Taller ships require the opening of the drawbridge, operated by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.\n\nThe first bridge on the site was known as the Canal Bridge, named after the Middlesex Canal which ran from the Charlestown Mill Pond to Middlesex Village in East Chelmsford Massachusetts; later p/o Lowell. As an investment, businessman Andrew Craigie purchased the largely undeveloped farmland on the Cambridge side around Lechmere Point from various owners (including Mary Lechmere and heirs) in preparation for building the bridge. The investors incorporated in 1807 with a charter to build a bridge from Leverett Street in the West End, Boston to the eastern end of Lechmere Point. One-third of shares were owned by the Middlesex Canal Corporation.\n\nThe bridge opened in 1809, and came to be known as Craigie's Bridge. The construction of the bridge prompted the laying out of roads to the center of Cambridge (now Cambridge Street, running to Harvard Square) and Somerville/Medford (Bridge Street, now Monsignor O'Brien Highway/Massachusetts Route 28). Craigie and associates, who formed the Lechemere Point Corporation, benefited from the building boom that followed, spurred on by their efforts to expand the public street grid. Residential cross streets were constructed and some were named after investors (Otis, Thorndike, and Gore). The bridge was sold to the Hancock Free Bridge Corporation in 1846, and became toll-free on January 30, 1858.\n\nThe current bridge was constructed in 1910, along with the dam that turned the lower Charles River from a tidal estuary into a fresh-water basin. This reduced the problematic odor from raw sewage flowing into the river by keeping the formerly tidal lands covered with water. It was completed on June 30, and greeted with a two-hour fireworks display that Fourth of July. Thousands of people watched from the new Boston Embankment (the early Charles River Esplanade), which took the place of the former tidal flats.\n\nConstruction of the Museum of Science began on the dam in 1948, and finished in 1951.\n\nThe Massachusetts Department of Transportation completed a 2-year project to rehabilitate the Craigie Bridge and to completely replace the drawbridge in 2011. The project required the closure of the Boston-bound lanes from November 6, 2010, through mid December 2010, and again from early February 2011 through mid-April 2011, necessitating traffic detours. This was paid for out of borrowed funds as part of the statewide Accelerated Bridge Program.\n\nIn November 2018, a Boston University graduate student was killed by a dump truck while bicycling on the bridge as both turned right onto Museum Way. The next month, MassDOT announced that dedicated bicycle signals and protected bicycle lanes would be added in summer 2019, dropping automobile traffic to two lanes in each direction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947556", "title": "Charles Swasey", "text": "Charles Swasey\n\nCharles H. Swasey (June 21, 1839-October 4, 1862) was an officer in the United States Navy who was killed in action during the American Civil War.\n\nBorn in Massachusetts, Swasey was appointed midshipman on 28 September 1854, and commissioned lieutenant on 31 August 1861. Swasey served aboard in the engagement with the steamer below New Orleans, Louisiana, on 24 April 1862. He then served as executive officer of on the West Gulf Blockading Squadron. Lieutenant Swasey was wounded during an engagement with Confederate forces near Donaldsonville, Louisiana, on 4 October 1862, and died the same day.\n\nHe is buried at Mount Pleasant Cemetery in Taunton, Massachusetts.\n\nTwo ships have been named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947563", "title": "The Drowners", "text": "The Drowners\n\n\"The Drowners\" is the debut single by Suede, released on 11 May 1992 on Nude Records - it was later included on the band's debut album, \"Suede\" (1993). It charted at number 49 on the UK Singles Chart. \n\nThough not a hit at first, it amassed airplay over time and has become one of the band's definitive singles. Two different videos were produced for the song, one on rotation in the UK and the other created for the American market. The cover art features a seventies photo of German model Veruschka body-painted with a man's suit.\n\nIn a retrospective review of the song, Troy Carpenter of AllMusic wrote: \"'The Drowners' itself is a raucous anthem, lassoed by Bernard Butler's punctuated guitar riff. Singer Brett Anderson's ambiguous lyrics (\"We kiss in his room/to a popular tune\") and high-pitched croon recall Bowie's most theatrical moments, but in a different musical setting.\" It garnered much acclaim from \"NME\" and \"Melody Maker\", who both voted the song single of the year. \n\nIn 2014, \"NME\" ranked the song at number 104 in its list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. \"The Drowners\" was placed at number 40 in a 2016 poll of \"The 100 Greatest Alternative Singles of the '90s\" by music site \"PopMatters\".\n\nThe song was covered by Bristol space rock band Flying Saucer Attack. B-side \"My Insatiable One\", was covered by Morrissey during his 1992 world tour. The song was covered in concert by the Manic Street Preachers. Bernard Butler played two songs at the same gig but contrary to many reports did not join them for The Drowners - a recording was released as a b-side to their single \"She Is Suffering\" in late 1994.\n\nAll songs written by Brett Anderson and Bernard Butler.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947566", "title": "Nogo, Missouri", "text": "Nogo, Missouri\n\nNogo (also Mulroy) is a former town in Greene County, Missouri, United States, on old U.S. Route 66. The site is now completely inside the city of Strafford.\n\nThe name derived from the inability to name the town and someone made the comment that it was \"a no-go.\" The name \"Nogo\" then became the name of the town.\n"}
{"id": "1947567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947567", "title": "Fairfield High School (New South Wales)", "text": "Fairfield High School (New South Wales)\n\nFairfield High School is a government-funded co-educational comprehensive secondary day school, located in Fairfield, a south-western suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nEstablished in 1955 through the merger of two adjacent single-sex high schools: Fairfield Boys High School and Fairfield Girls High School, the school caters for approximately 1,100 students from Year 7 to Year 12. The school is operated by the New South Wales Department of Education as part of the Southern Regional and the Fairfield school education area.\n\nFairfield High School is a comprehensive local high school located in the heart of the City of Fairfield. Situated in the south western suburbs of Sydney, the school is located on the fringe of the Fairfield Central business district along The Horsley Drive. Fairfield is one of the most densely populated suburbs in Sydney containing residents from all over the world. The community is one of the most multicultural communities in Sydney.\n\nFairfield High School offers a comprehensive education in a coeducational setting. The broad curriculum and its emphasis on catering for the needs of the individual are distinctive features. Students from various cultural backgrounds are valued in this multi-cultural learning community.\n\nA well established Intensive English Centre (IEC) is located on site as part of the High School community. It caters for newly arrived students from overseas. The school has particular interest in providing for the needs of these students on entry into the high school setting.\n\nThe positive nature of the school is most evident in its welfare and award system and implementation of the community, achievement, respect and environment (CARE) code that underpins the ethos of the school. The aim of the school is to produce informed, confident and caring individuals through many quality programs promoting the CARE code.\n\nThe school is part of the Priority Schools Funding Program which supports students through a variety of strategies that are embedded in the school's management plan and school ethos.\n\nFairfield High school offers a diverse range of subjects from years 7 to 12. Technological courses are offered to students in years 7 - 8, and elective subjects are offered to students in years 9 and 10. Also offered are a wide variety of extension courses.\n\nThe Fairfield High School building is also used for adult education classes through Macarthur Community College.\n\nFairfield High School is an active member in the community and is the host to a variety of events such as:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947575", "title": "Kopelman Quartet", "text": "Kopelman Quartet\n\nThe Kopelman Quartet is a Russian string quartet founded in 2002 by Mikhail Kopelman (violin), Boris Kuschnir (violin), Igor Sulyga (viola) and Mikhail Milman (cello). They studied at the Moscow Conservatory in the 1970s, but pursued individual careers for twenty-five years before founding the quartet.\n\nThe quartet has played at many major international venues, including the Musikverein, Vienna, and the Dom Muzyki, Moscow, and appears regularly at venues such as the Concertgebouw, Amsterdam and the Wigmore Hall, London. Chamber music partners have included Elisabeth Leonskaja, Mischa Maisky and Julian Rachlin.\n\nFestival appearances have included the Edinburgh International Festival, the Valladolid Festival, the Zurich Festival, the Colmar Festival, Prague Spring Festival, the Wimbledon Music Festival and the Ravinia Festival in the United States.\n\nMikhail Kopelman, first violin, (born 1947, Uzhhorod, Ukrainian SSR, USSR), a former member of the Bolshoi Theatre orchestra and concertmaster of the Moscow Philharmonic Orchestra, was appointed first violin of the Borodin Quartet in 1976, and remained with them for twenty years. He was with the quartet in 1994 when it was awarded a Royal Philharmonic Society Music Award. From 1980-1993, Kopelman was on the faculty of the Moscow Conservatory teaching both solo violin and string quartet. He emigrated with his family to the United States in 1993, joining the Tokyo String Quartet as first violinist in 1996. From 1996-2002 he was a professor at the Yale School of Music, coaching chamber music. In 2002, he was appointed Professor of Violin at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York.\n\nBoris Kuschnir, second violin, (born 1948, Kiev, Ukraine) is a professor at the Konservatorium Wien and also at the Universität für Musik und darstellende Kunst, Graz. His pupils have included Julian Rachlin and Nikolaj Znaider. He worked with Dmitri Shostakovich and David Oistrakh (with whom he also studied). He was a founder member of a founder member of the Moscow String Quartet (1970), the Vienna Schubert Trio (1984), and the Vienna Brahms Trio (1993). He was awarded the use of the \"Rouse-Boughton\" violin by Antonio Stradivari (c. 1698), belonging to Austria's central bank Oesterreichische Nationalbank, in recognition of his services to music in Austria. He is a regular jury member of a number of major international music competitions.\n\nIgor Sulyga, viola, (born 1951, Lviv, Ukraine) was a founder member of the Moscow String Quartet (together with Boris Kuschnir) and worked with Dmitri Shostakovich on the composer's late quartets. He subsequently played in the Moscow Virtuosi Chamber Orchestra, under the directorship of Vladimir Spivakov, for twenty years and also played in Spivakov's string quartet. Sulyga moved to Spain in 1990 and teaches both viola and chamber music at the La Escuela Internacional de Música de la Fundación Príncipe de Asturias, Oviedo.\n\nMikhail Milman, cello, studied with Natalia Gutman and Mstislav Rostropovich and was principal cellist of the Moscow Virtuosi for twenty years. He collaborated frequently with the Borodin Quartet in concerts and recordings. After settling in Spain, he spent some years as principal cello of the Orquesta Sinfónica del Principado de Asturias, Oviedo, and is currently principal cello of the Orquesta de Córdoba.\n\nThe Kopelman Quartet is recording a Shostakovich series for Nimbus Records and has also been captured on Wigmore Hall Live, the Wigmore Hall's own label.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947579", "title": "Bush (Canadian band)", "text": "Bush (Canadian band)\n\nBush was an early-70s Canadian rock band. It evolved from the respected club act Mandala, which had a minor Canadian hit with the song \"Love-Itis\". \n\nBush consisted of ex-Mandala bandmates Domenic Troiano, Roy Kenner, Hugh Sullivan, Pentti Glan, and Prakash John. The group released a single eponymous album in 1970, on the RCA label in Canada and Dunhill in the US, and toured with label mates Steppenwolf and Three Dog Night. Three Dog Night released one of their songs, \"I Can Hear You Calling\" as the B-side of their successful single \"Joy to the World\". The song, co-written by Troiano, Kenner, Glan and Sullivan, also appeared on Three Dog Night's \"Naturally\" album. Bush was short-lived as a band, but its jazz-influenced rock influenced many musicians.\n\nBush became newsworthy again in 1995, as the result of an intellectual property dispute with the British alternative band Bush. As Troiano still owned the rights to that name, the British band were forced to release their albums in Canada as \"Bush\". In late April 1997, Troiano and Gavin Rossdale reached an agreement under which Rossdale's band was permitted to use the name Bush without the letter X, in exchange for donating $20,000 each to the Starlight Foundation and the Canadian Music Therapy Fund.\n\nAll of the band members continued in music after the breakup of Bush. Kenner and Troiano joined The James Gang, following the departure of Joe Walsh. They performed together on the albums \"Passin' Thru\" and \"Straight Shooter\", after which Troiano left to join The Guess Who. Kenner stayed with The James Gang, then with lead guitarist Tommy Bolin, for two further albums, \"Bang\" and \"Miami\". John and Glan became session musicians, who also toured with Alice Cooper and Lou Reed. Troiano later developed a successful solo career, which also included Kenner at various times. John later fronted a Toronto-based rhythm and blues band, The Lincolns, which continues to play today. In 2005, Domenic Troiano died at age of 59, of prostate cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947582", "title": "Sharm El Sheikh Memorandum", "text": "Sharm El Sheikh Memorandum\n\nThe Sharm El Sheikh Memorandum, full name: The Sharm El Sheikh Memorandum on Implementation Timeline of Outstanding Commitments of Agreements Signed and the Resumption of Permanent Status Negotiations was a memorandum signed on September 4, 1999 by Prime Minister of Israel Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat at Sharm el Sheikh in Egypt, overseen by the United States represented by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. The memorandum was witnessed and co-signed by President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Abdullah of Jordan.\n\nThe memorandum's purpose was to implement the Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip (Oslo II) of September 1995 and to implement all other agreements between the PLO and Israel since September 1993: Protocol on Economic Relations (1994); Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area (1994); Washington Declaration (1994); Agreement on Preparatory Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities Between Israel and the PLO (1994); Protocol on Further Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities (1995); Wye River Memorandum (1998).\n\nTo sum up the memorandum:\n\nThe two sides agreed to resume Permanent Status negotiations to reach a Permanent Status Agreement. They reaffirmed that negotiations on the Permanent Status would lead to the implementation of Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338. Both sides agreed to make a determined effort to conclude a framework agreement and established a timetable to achieve this goal.\nIsrael and Palestine agreed on a number of Israeli redeployments.\n\n(Note: Area A - Full control of the Palestinian Authority.\n\nArea B - Palestinian civil control, Israeli military control.\n\nArea C - Full Israeli control.)\n\n\n\n\n\nThe memorandum states that neither side would initiate or take any step that would change the status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in accordance with the Interim Agreement. This clause recognized the necessity to create an appropriate environment for negotiations,\n\nIsraeli and Palestinian negotiators also discussed various issues:\n\n\nPalestine and Israel also called upon the international donor community to enhance its financial support for the Palestinian economic development and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947585", "title": "I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman", "text": "I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\n\n\"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" is a song recorded by American singer Britney Spears for her third studio album, \"Britney\" (2001). It was written and produced by Max Martin and Rami, with additional writing from Dido. The song was released on February 5, 2002, by Jive Records. In the United States and Canada, the song was released as the second single from her third studio album \"Britney\"; internationally, it served as the third. \"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" is a song that speaks about the angst and heartache of adolescence. Spears considered the song inspirational and one of her favorite songs to perform.\n\n\"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" received positive reviews from music critics. The song was considered to be Spears' standout statement on \"Britney\", while comparing the song to the powerful ballads written by Diane Warren. However, it won the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Original Song. While the song did not perform well in the United States, \"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" reached the top ten in Australia, Germany, Ireland, Sweden and United Kingdom. An accompanying music video for the song was filmed at Antelope Canyon, Arizona and directed by Wayne Isham, being released along with \"Crossroads\" (2002), Spears' first movie as a protagonist. Spears performed \"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" as part of her Dream Within a Dream Tour, and on several TV and award shows.\n\nIn early 2001, Spears and her team developed a script for a movie where the singer could be the main role. \"I talked to [Rhimes] and told her what I wanted the movie to be about and she elaborated on it,\" Spears said. \"It was my little project. When you do a movie, I think you have to be really passionate about it. I was having a lot of offers, but this is something my heart was into.\" After finishing the script, the movie, which was later titled \"Crossroads\", had the working titles of \"What Are Friends For\" and \"Not a Girl\". \"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\", written by Dido, Max Martin and Rami, was originally intended to be included on the movie's soundtrack, but after Jive Records decided not to release a soundtrack, Spears later decided to use it on her third studio album, \"Britney\" (2001).\n\nThe song was produced and mixed by Max Martin and Rami Yacoub. Max Martin began working on the song at Maratone Studios in Stockholm, Sweden in mid-2001 and Spears recorded in June of the same year at Battery Studios in New York City, New York. The June 20, 2001 recording session aired on MTV Diary on September 1, 2001. Background vocals were provided by Martin and Jeanette Oison. Spears considered the song as one of her favorites, while praising Dido for her input into its songwriting, saying \"it was truly an honor for you to be part of my album. Thanks for your input.\" \"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" is a pop power ballad, founded on a strong piano melody, that lasts for three minutes and 49 seconds. The song is composed in the key of E♭ major and is set in time signature of common time, with a moderately slow tempo of 76 beats per minute. After the bridge, it transposes to F major. The song's lyrics talk about the angst and heartache that teenage girls suffer with puberty, where Spears claims, \"I used to think I had the answers to everything.\" \"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" has a basic sequence of E♭–A♭2–Fm7–B♭ as its chord progression.\n\n\"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" received positive reviews from music critics. \"Yale Daily News\" writer Catherine Halaby called it a \"well-executed ballad\", while observing that \"it comes across as a hybrid of advice to her young female fans on how to deal with puberty, and an explanation of her girly but not childlike attitude.\" Jim Farber of the \"Daily News\" while reviewing the Dream Within a Dream Tour, called the song \"sugar pop dittie\", along with Spears' previous ballad single \"Don't Let Me Be the Last to Know\". Nikki Tranker of PopMatters considered the song \"Britney's standout statement on [\"Britney\"], [...] a power ballad that allows [the singer] to showcase her expert vocals while still adhering to the rules of safe pop.\" Tranker compared the song to powerful ballads written by Diane Warren. \n\nKatie Perone of the \"Loyola Greyhound\" said the song \"clearly defines the theme of the record: Britney's growing up, and wants to do her own thing.\" Nayer Nissim, from \"Pink News\", called it \"a bit wet and safe, but a standout vocal performance and Britney’s real connection with the lyrics elevates this\". Shannon Barbour from \"Cosmopolitan\" called it Spears' 25th best song. Daniel Megarry from \"Gay Times\" wrote: \"after two albums of girl-next-door visuals and bubblegum pop songs, Brit was ready to embrace adulthood, and so her first self-titled album became a transition of sorts. No song represents this better than 'I’m Not A Girl, Not Yet A Woman' - a soaring ballad [...] which dealt with the struggles of entering adulthood\". The staff from \"Entertainment Weekly\" placed it at number 30 on their ranking of Spears's songs and called it \"her best introspection\". Nicholas Hautman, from \"Us Weekly\", deemed it a \"somewhat cheesy yet introspective power ballad\". Despite the positive response from critics, the song won a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Original Song in 2003.\n\n\"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" achieved moderate commercial success. The song did not make much impact in the United States, peaking at number two on the \"Billboard\" Bubbling Under Hot 100, but failing to reach the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. However, the song did manage to peak at number 21 on \"Billboard\" Pop Songs, and debuted in its peak position of number two in the United Kingdom. In Australia, the song peaked at number seven, and was certified Gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association for selling over 30,000 physical units of the single. It also peaked inside the top ten in Austria, Germany, Ireland, and Sweden.\n\nThe accompanying music video for the track was directed by Wayne Isham, who wanted it to show Spears \"out in nature\". The video was filmed from August 16–17, 2001 completely on location in Arizona, with none of the scenes shot on green screens. The video primarily consists of Spears, whilst wearing cowboy boots, performing the song whilst standing on the edge of a cliff, and inside a cave: despite her \"trepidation\" and heavy winds which \"almost dropped [her] over\", she performed the scene without a safety cable. Isham praised Spears' attitude to the filming of the scene, claiming that she \"had not a blink of fear\" during the shoot, Spears is sitting on top of a cliff, surrounded by cliffs. Isham also considered the music video one of his favorites, commenting that he had \"nothing but positive things to say about my experience with her and what she's doing right now\" and that Spears \"stepped into it with positive energy. She ended up stepping out and kicking ass.\" There are 3 versions of the video, versions 1 and 2 has clips from the movie \"Crossroads\" as well as additional scenes of Spears sitting at a bonfire and in a red motel room; version 3 is the original version. The music video won the award for \"International Music Video of the Year Short-Form\" on the 2003 Japan Gold Disc Awards.\n\"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" was performed on Spears's Dream Within a Dream Tour. After the performance of \"Boys\", Spears sat down next to a piano player and talked to the audience before moving into a performance of the song. Spears also performed the song in several television appearances, including on \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\", the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", the American Music Awards of 2002, \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", and \"Saturday Night Live\". \"I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman\" was also performed on the show \"Wetten, dass..?\" in Germany, and on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\". An MTV special titled \"Total Britney Live\" included an exclusive performance of the song, along with performances of \"I'm a Slave 4 U\" and \"Stronger\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Britney\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947590", "title": "Harry Seeley", "text": "Harry Seeley\n\nHarry Govier Seeley (18 February 1839 – 8 January 1909) was a British paleontologist.\n\nSeeley was born in London, the son of Richard Hovill Seeley, goldsmith, and his second wife Mary Govier. He attended classes at the Royal School of Mines, Kensington before becoming an assistant to Adam Sedgwick at the Woodwardian Museum, Cambridge, from 1859. He matriculated as a student at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge in 1863. He turned down positions both with the British Museum and the Geological Survey of Britain to work on his own. Late in his career he accepted a position as Professor of Geology at King's College, Cambridge and Bedford College (London) (1876). He was later Lecturer on Geology and Physiology at Dulwich College and Professor of Geology and Mineralogy at King's College London (1896–1905).\n\nHe died in Kensington, London and was buried in Brookwood Cemetery. He had married in 1872 Eleanora Jane, daughter of William Mitchell of Bath. Their daughter Maude married Arthur Smith Woodward, FRS.\n\nSeeley determined that dinosaurs fell into two great groups, the Saurischia and the Ornithischia, based on the nature of their pelvic bones and joints. He published his results in 1888, from a lecture he had delivered the previous year. Paleontologists of his time had been dividing the Dinosauria in various ways, depending on the structure of their feet and the form of their teeth. Seeley's division, however, has stood the test of time, though the birds have subsequently been found to descend, not from the \"bird-hipped\" Ornithischia, but from the \"lizard-hipped\" Saurischia. He found the two groups so distinct that he also argued for separate origins: not until the 1980s did new techniques of cladistic analysis show that both groups of dinosaurs really did have common ancestors in the Triassic. Seeley described and named numerous dinosaurs from their fossils in the course of his career.\n\nHis popular book on pterosaurs, \"Dragons of the Air\" (1901), found that the development of birds and pterosaurs paralleled each other. His belief that they had a common origin has been proved, for both are archosaurs, just not as close as he thought. He upset Richard Owen's characterization of the pterosaurs as cold-blooded, sluggish gliders, and recognized them as warm-blooded active fliers.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in June 1879 for his work on reptiles and dinosaurs, and delivered their Croonian Lecture in 1887.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947595", "title": "Adriana Molinari", "text": "Adriana Molinari\n\nAdriana Molinari (born 26 November 1967), known professionally as Alex Taylor, is a former beauty pageant winner, exotic dancer, and pornographic actress who mainly worked for Vivid Entertainment from around 1998 to 2000.\n\nShe moved to Hampton, New Hampshire from South America with her parents when she was in seventh grade. She was a bathing suit model for a time as a teenager. She is a graduate of Winnacunnet High School.\n\nMolinari was named Miss Hampton Beach, New Hampshire in 1984 and Miss New Hampshire USA in 1991. She started stripping in 1990 in Massachusetts and failed to place in the 1991 Miss USA pageant. In the Spring of 1991, Miss USA pageant officials stripped her of her crown when a national supermarket tabloid publicly revealed that she had been moonlighting as an exotic dancer.\n\nShe was a Penthouse Pet in August 1994 under the stage name Alex Taylor and appeared in that adult magazine over thirty times. She has also appeared on the TV shows \"A Current Affair\", \"Hard Copy\", \"Inside Edition\", and \"Entertainment Tonight\".\n\nAs of 2008, Molinari had retired from the adult industry and was residing in Orlando, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947599", "title": "Eiji Sawamura", "text": "Eiji Sawamura\n\nEiji Sawamura (沢村 栄治; February 1, 1917 – December 2, 1944, born in Ujiyamada (present: Ise), Mie prefecture, Japan) was a Japanese professional baseball player. A right-handed pitcher, he played in Japan for the Yomiuri Giants.\n\nOn November 20, 1934, the 17-year-old Sawamura faced a team of visiting all-star players from Major League Baseball, including Babe Ruth, Jimmie Foxx, Lou Gehrig, and Charlie Gehringer. Entering the game in the fourth inning, the high school pitcher struck out nine batters and held the Americans to a single run over five innings pitched; a home run by Gehrig in the seventh saddled Sawamura with the loss. However, he did manage to strike out Gehringer, Ruth, Gehrig, and Foxx in succession. Connie Mack, who was managing the American team, was so impressed by Sawamura's performance that he tried to sign him to a Major League contract; Sawamura refused to go, citing a reluctance to leave home.\n\nWith the formation of the Japanese Baseball League, Sawamura joined the Yomiuri Giants in 1936 and became one of their aces. He pitched the first no-hitter in Japanese pro baseball, on September 25, 1936, as well as two others (May 1, 1937 and July 6, 1940). In 1937, he went 33-10 with a 1.38 earned run average. From 1937 to 1943, Sawamura accumulated 105 games pitched, a career record of 63-22, 554 strikeouts and a 1.74 ERA.\n\nIn 1943, Sawamura enlisted in the Japanese Imperial Army. He was killed in battle near Yakushima when his ship was torpedoed by near the end of World War II.\n\nSawamura was inducted into the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame in 1959. The Sawamura Award (Japan's equivalent to MLB's Cy Young Award), which is given to the best pitchers in the League since 1947, is named in his honor.\n\nSawamura's likeness was used in an episode of \"\" titled \"Shatter Like a Pearl\". A Japanese P.O.W. named Tetsuya Ota (played by Kazuya Tanabe) was being interrogated by an American-Japansese soldier. Ota told him he was a pitcher in Japan and had struck out Lou Gehrig in three pitches; \"three swings and misses (outside-inside-outside)\" when the Yankee came to Tokyo, Japan for an All-Star game in 1934.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947601", "title": "Gudermes", "text": "Gudermes\n\nGudermes (; , \"Gümse\" or , \"Guthermajas\") is a town in the Chechen Republic, Russia, located on the Sunzha River east of Grozny, the republic's capital. Population: 32,000 (1970).\n\nGudermes had rural locality status until 1941. Later, it became a railroad junction between Rostov-on-Don, Baku, Astrakhan, and Mozdok.\n\nGudermes has a humid continental climate (Köppen: \"Dfa\") closely bordering a humid subtropical climate (Köppen: \"Cfa\") . Gudermes is one of the warmest places in Russia and has recorded one of Russia's highest temperatures, recording temperatures as high as in July 1999.\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, Gudermes serves as the administrative center of Gudermessky District, even though it is not a part of it. As an administrative division, it is incorporated separately as the town of republic significance of Gudermes—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts. As a municipal division, the town of republic significance of Gudermes is incorporated within Gudermessky Municipal District as Gudermesskoye Urban Settlement.\n\nGudermes is home to oil extraction industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947635", "title": "Fundamental theorem of Galois theory", "text": "Fundamental theorem of Galois theory\n\nIn mathematics, the fundamental theorem of Galois theory is a result that describes the structure of certain types of field extensions.\n\nIn its most basic form, the theorem asserts that given a field extension \"E\"/\"F\" that is finite and Galois, there is a one-to-one correspondence between its intermediate fields and subgroups of its Galois group. (\"Intermediate fields\" are fields \"K\" satisfying \"F\" ⊆ \"K\" ⊆ \"E\"; they are also called \"subextensions\" of \"E\"/\"F\".)\n\nFor finite extensions, the correspondence can be described explicitly as follows.\n\nThe fundamental theorem says that this correspondence is a one-to-one correspondence if (and only if) \"E\"/\"F\" is a Galois extension.\nFor example, the topmost field \"E\" corresponds to the trivial subgroup of Gal(\"E\"/\"F\"), and the base field \"F\" corresponds to the whole group Gal(\"E\"/\"F\").\n\nThe notation Gal(\"E\"/\"F\") is only used for Galois extensions. If \"E\"/\"F\" is Galois, then Gal(\"E\"/\"F\") = Aut(\"E\"/\"F\"). If \"E\"/\"F\" is not Galois, then the \"correspondence\" gives only an injective (but not surjective) map from formula_1 to formula_2, and a surjective (but not injective) map in the reverse direction. In particular, if \"E\"/\"F\" is not Galois, then \"F\" is not the fixed field of any subgroup of Aut(\"E\"/\"F\").\n\nThe correspondence has the following useful properties.\n\n\nConsider the field\n\nSince is first determined by adjoining , then , each element of can be written as:\n\nIts Galois group formula_5 can be determined by examining the automorphisms of which fix . Each such automorphism must send to either or , and must send to either or since the permutations in a Galois group can only permute the roots of an irreducible polynomial. Suppose that exchanges and , so\n\nand exchanges and , so\n\nThese are clearly automorphisms of . There is also the identity automorphism which does not change anything, and the composition of and which changes the signs on \"both\" radicals:\n\nTherefore,\n\nand is isomorphic to the Klein four-group. It has five subgroups, each of which correspond via the theorem to a subfield of . \n\nThe following is the simplest case where the Galois group is not abelian.\n\nConsider the splitting field \"K\" of the polynomial formula_14 over formula_15 that is, formula_16 where θ is a cube root of 2, and ω is a cube root of 1 (but not 1 itself). For example, if we imagine \"K\" to be inside the field of complex numbers, we may take θ to be the real cube root of 2, and ω to be\n\nIt can be shown that the Galois group formula_18 has six elements, and is isomorphic to the group of permutations of three objects. It is generated by (for example) two automorphisms, say \"f\" and \"g\", which are determined by their effect on θ and ω,\n\nand then\n\nThe subgroups of \"G\" and corresponding subfields are as follows:\n\nLet formula_36 be the field of rational functions in formula_37 and let\n\nwhich is a group under composition, isomorphic to formula_39 (see: six cross-ratios).\nLet formula_40 be the fixed field of formula_41, then formula_42.\n\nIf formula_43 is a subgroup of formula_41 then the coefficients of the following polynomial\n\ngenerate the fixed field of formula_43. Galois correspondence means that every subfield of formula_47 can be constructed this way. For example, if formula_48 then the fixed field is formula_49 and if formula_50 then the fixed field is formula_51. Likewise, one can write formula_40, the fixed field of formula_41, as formula_54 where is the -invariant.\n\nSimilar examples can be constructed for each of the symmetry groups of the platonic solids as these also have faithful actions on the projective line formula_55 and hence on formula_56.\n\nThe theorem classifies the intermediate fields of \"E\"/\"F\" in terms of group theory. This translation between intermediate fields and subgroups is key\nto showing that the general quintic equation is not solvable by radicals (see Abel–Ruffini theorem). One first determines the Galois groups of radical extensions (extensions of the form \"F\"(α) where α is an \"n\"-th root of some element of \"F\"), and then uses the fundamental theorem to show that solvable extensions correspond to solvable groups.\n\nTheories such as Kummer theory and class field theory are predicated on the fundamental theorem.\n\nGiven an infinite algebraic extension we can still define it to be Galois if it is normal and separable. The problem that one encounters in the infinite case is that the bijection in the fundamental theorem does not hold as we get too many subgroups generally. More precisely if we just take every subgroup we can in general find two different subgroups that fix the same intermediate field. Therefore we amend this by introducing a topology on the Galois group.\n\nLet formula_57 be a Galois extension (possible infinite) and let formula_58 be the Galois group of the extension. Let formula_59be the set of the Galois groups of all finite intermediate Galois extension. Note that for all formula_60 we can define the maps formula_61 by formula_62. We then define the \"Krull Topology\" on formula_41 to be weakest topology such that for all formula_60 the maps formula_61 are continuous, where we endow each formula_66 with the discrete topology. Stated differently formula_67 as an inverse limit of topological groups (where again each formula_66 is endowed with the discrete topology). This makes formula_41 a profinite group (in fact every profinite group can be realised as the Galois group of an Galois extension, see for example ). Note that when formula_47 is finite, the Krull topology is the discrete topology.\n\nNow that we have defined a topology on the Galois group we can restate the fundamental theorem for infinite Galois extension.\n\nLet formula_71 denote the set of all finite intermediate field extension of formula_47 and let formula_73 denote the set of all closed subgroups of formula_58 endowed with the Krull topology. Then there exists a bijection between formula_71 and formula_73 given by the mapformula_77defined by formula_78 and the map formula_79defined by formula_80. One important thing one need to check is that formula_81 is a well-defined map, that is that formula_82 is a closed subgroup of formula_41 for all intermediate. For a proof see for example \n"}
{"id": "1947636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947636", "title": "Stéphane Bonneau", "text": "Stéphane Bonneau\n\nStéphane Bonneau (born December 8, 1961 in Chicoutimi, Quebec) is a former professional tennis player from Canada.\n\nBonneau had a career singles win-loss record of 6-18 in ATP tour events. His best result was a third round appearance in the 1985 Player's Canadian Open where he defeated Tomáš Šmíd and Jakob Hlasek. His career singles best ranking was World No. 107, which he attained on July 28, 1986.\n\nBonneau first competed in the Player's International Canadian Open in 1980, losing 0-6, 7-6, 1-6 to Tim Gullikson. In doubles action he and partner Rick Fagel lost in the first round to the Chilean brother duo of Álvaro Fillol and Jaime Fillol, 2-6, 6-7. Bonneau's next professional tour level tournament was the 1981 edition of the tournament, in which he lost in the first round again in singles, as a wild card entry, this time to Frenchman Bernard Fritz 4-6, 1-6. (He did not compete in doubles.)\n\nAgain Bonneau did not play in another tour event for another two years, until the 1983 edition of the Player's International. This time he made the second round, defeating compatriot and qualifier Dale Power 6-2, 7-6, before succumbing to No. 2 seed Ivan Lendl 2-6, 1-6.\n\nBonneau turned professional in 1984 after winning the NAIA singles title at Belhaven College. In April, he competed in both singles and doubles at the Montreal Indoor Challenger, losing in the first round in singles to Matt Mitchell 4-6, 3-6, and reaching the second round (quarters) in doubles, partnering compatriot Martin Dyotte.\n\nIn August, Bonneau played his fourth Player's International, again as a wild card entrant, and lost in the first round in singles, to qualifier Andy Kohlberg, 6-2, 4-6, 4-6. In doubles he and partner Dyotte lost in the first round as well, 4-6, 2-6, to the duo of Francisco González and John Sadri.\n\nBonneau continued his run of contesting Canadian-only tournaments competing in the Toronto Indoor Grand Prix in February, losing in the first round in singles to Mike Leach in two tie-breaks, and not competing in doubles. A month later, he reached the quarter-finals for the first time in a tour event, the Montreal Indoor. He beat fellow wild card Doug Burke and then David Dowlen in straight sets before losing to eventual champion Kohlberg 2-6, 5-7. In doubles, he and compatriot Josef Brabenec lost in straight sets in the first round to South African Michael Robertson and New Zealander Kelly Evernden.\n\nBonneau competed for the first time on tour outside of Canada in April, at the San Luis Potosí Challenger in San Luis Potosí, losing in the first round in both singles (to Tomm Warneke) and doubles (partnering Burke). Then in June, he played singles at the Dortmund Challenger. Seeded for the first time, at No. 9, he lost in the first round to Peter Svensson.\n\nBonneau had his best tournament result at the 1985 Player's International. Again a wild card, he defeated No. 12 seed Tomáš Šmíd in three sets in the first round, future top tenner Jakob Hlasek in the second, before falling to No. 5 seed Anders Järryd in the round of 16. In doubles, he and fellow Quebecer Martin Laurendeau lost in the first round to seeded team Paul Annacone and Christo van Rensburg.\n\nIn October, Bonneau lost in the first round in singles at the Grand Prix de Tennis de Toulouse to Mark Dickson. He finished the year in Australia where he lost in the first round of the 1985 Australian Open in straight sets to John Frawley. A month later at the Melbourne Outdoor, Bonneau lost again in the first round, to World No. 184 Peter Carlsson. On December 30, he was ranked World No. 175 in singles and No. 421 in doubles.\n\nBonneau's first tournament of the year was again the Toronto Indoor, where he lost in the first round to Jeremy Bates. The following week he again lost in the first round, at the Lipton International, in 3 sets to Glenn Layendecker. (Bonneau had lost in qualifying but made the main draw as a 'lucky loser'.) In March, Bonneau played singles and doubles at the Rio de Janeiro Challenger, losing in the first round in doubles, partnering Guillermo Rivas, and the second round in singles, as the No. 8 seed. The following week in Brasília, he lost in the first round as the No. 7 seed, to qualifier Gustavo Luza. The week after, Bonneau again played San Luis Potosí, losing in the first round in singles but reaching the finals in doubles, for his first time on tour, partnering Venezuelan Inaki Calvo. Bonneau and Calvo lost the final to Charles Bud Cox and Jon Levine.\n\nIn the summer, Bonneau played in the main draw in singles first at the Schenectady Challenger, where he reached the second round. This result coupled with his still retaining his ranking points at this point from the previous year's Player's International allowed him to reach his career singles ranking of World No. 107. In August however, Bonneau was unable to protect these points, losing in the first round of the Player's, to eventual semi-final Christo Steyn. In doubles, he and compatriot Andrew Sznajder reached the second round.\n\nBonneau competed in his second grand slam event singles main draw at the 1986 U.S. Open. He was soundly beaten by No. 4 seed and eventual semi-finalist Stefan Edberg, 0-6, 3-6, 0-6. Bonneau did not compete in any more tour event main draws for the year. His rankings on December 29 were World No. 184 in singles and No. 263 in doubles.\n\nBonneau again competed at San Luis Potosí and achieved his best result there, reaching the semi-finals, where he lost to Leonardo Lavalle. In doubles, partnering Briton Bill Cowan, Bonneau reached the second round. In late May at the Montabaur Challenger in Montabaur, he lost in the first round, to Peter Elter.\n\nIn July, Bonneau played in 5 consecutive grand prix events in the Eastern United States and Canada. At the 1987 Livingston Open, he reached the quarter-finals, knocking off David Wells-Roth and Glenn Layendecker before falling to Johan Kriek. At the Schenectady Open, he lost in the first round, to Eric Winogradsky. The following week Bonneau reached the second round of the Sovran Bank Classic, defeating Tomm Warnecke before losing to Nduka Odizor. The week after, he fell again to Kriek, in the first round of the Volvo International.\n\nFor the fifth consecutive year and the seventh overall, Bonneau played both singles and doubles at the Player's International, this time in Montreal. And for the sixth time, he lost in the first round, this time to World No. 249 Roberto Saad in straight sets. In doubles Bonneau reached the second round for a second consecutive with Sznajder. The following week, he played the Winnetka Challenger, losing in the first round in both singles and doubles. The week of the start of the U.S. Open, Bonneau played the Budapest Challenger, losing in the first round in both singles and doubles. The following week he played Thessaloniki Challenger, reaching the second round in singles and semis in doubles, partnering Steve Guy.\n\nThree weeks later, Bonneau won his only tour singles title, the Chicoutimi Challenger, defeating Jamaican Doug Burke in the final. The 20 ranking points secured saw his ranking move from No. 169 to No. 142. The following week at the Vancouver Challenger he reached the quarters, losing to an up-and-coming Grant Connell. The week after, Bonneau played the Las Vegas Challenger, reaching the second round. In each of these three events, he lost however in the first round in doubles.\n\nAfter a week off, Bonneau played the Bergen Challenger on carpet, defeating Florin Segărceanu before losing to World No. 88 Patrik Kühnen. The following week however he lost in the first round, of the Helsinki Challenger. In Helsinki however, Bonneau did reach the semi-finals in doubles, partnering Olli Rahnasto. The week after, he played in the main draw of his last tour event for 1987, singles in the Valkenswaard Challenger, and lost in the first round. Bonneau in the last rankings of the year, of December 28, was ranked World No. 171 in singles and No. 315 in doubles.\n\nIn Bonneau's first main draw action for 1988, he reached the finals of both the singles and doubles of Vilamoura Challenger in Portugal, in April. He lost the singles final to South African Barry Moir and played doubles with Fabio Silberberg. The following week in Lisbon, he lost in the first round to World No. 55 Mark Woodforde.\n\nIn May, Bonneau reached the second round of the Raleigh Challenger, defeating compatriot Martin Wostenholme before falling to John Boytim. In doubles he lost in the first round partnering Anand Amritraj. Three weeks later he again played the Montabaur Challenger, losing in singles in the first round to Jim Gurfein. The following week at the Dijon Challenger Bonneau fared better, beating Gurfein en route to reaching the quarters. In doubles he partnered Gurfein and reached the second round. This was Bonneau's last doubles tournament as a full-time member of the tour. His doubles ranking following this result was World No. 285.\n\nIn August, Bonneau played his last tournament main draw as a full-time touring pro, reaching the second round of the New Haven Challenger in singles, defeating Robbie Weiss and losing to Luke Jensen. The Monday after this tournament his singles ranking stood at World No. 230.\n\nAs a Davis Cup player for Canada, Bonneau lost both a doubles and singles rubber on clay in a 1981 tie held against Colombia in Bogotá, the North and Central America semi-final. Partnering Rejean Genois, he lost to the duo of Carlos Behar and Alejandro Cortes, in straight sets. Bonneau then lost to Cortes in fourth rubber in four sets. Colombia won the tie 3-2.\n\nBonneau won two singles matches versus the Caribbean in March 1985 on carpet in Chicoutimi, defeating Karl Hale in the second round and then Roger Smith in a dead rubber. Canada prevailed in this America Zone quarterfinal 4-1.\n\nIn the next round, held in August, also in Chicoutimi, Mexico defeated Canada 3-2 to advance to the American zone final. Bonneau lost his round 1 match-up to Francisco Maciel in four sets as well as a fifth and deciding rubber, 10-12, 1-6, 2-6 to Leonardo Lavalle.\n\nIn 1989, Bonneau played the Chicoutimi Challenger in both singles and doubles. In singles he beat World No. 822 Mark Z. Jacobson in the first round, in straight sets, and lost to World No. 444 Craig Campbell in the second in three sets. In doubles, he and partner, compatriot Pierre Dufour lost their opening match to the young Quebec duo of Sébastien Lareau and Sébastien Leblanc, 3-6, 6-3, 3-6.\n\nIn 1996, at age 34, Bonneau was ranked 3rd in Quebec.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947652", "title": "Kingdom of Albania (medieval)", "text": "Kingdom of Albania (medieval)\n\nThe Kingdom of Albania (, ) was established by Charles of Anjou in the Albanian territories with the help of the local Albanian nobility he conquered from the Byzantine Empire in 1271. The Kingdom of Albania was declared in late February 1272. The kingdom extended from the region of Durazzo (Dyrrhachium, modern Durrës) south along the coast to Butrint. A major attempt to advance further in direction of Constantinople failed at the Siege of Berat (1280–1281). A Byzantine counteroffensive soon ensued, which drove the Angevins out of the interior by 1281. The Sicilian Vespers further weakened the position of Charles, and the Kingdom was soon reduced by the Byzantines to a small area around Durazzo. The Angevins held out here, however, until 1368, when the city was captured by Karl Thopia. In 1392 Karl Thopia's son surrendered the city and his domains to the Republic of Venice.\n\n During the conflict between the Despotate of Epirus and the Empire of Nicaea in 1253, lord Golem of Kruja was initially allied with Epirus. Golem's troops had occupied the Kostur area trying to prevent the Nicaean forces of John Vatatzes from entering Devoll. Vatatzes managed to convince Golem to switch sides and a new treaty was signed between the parties where Vatatzes promised to guarantee Golem's autonomy. The same year Despot of Epirus Michael II signed a peace treaty with Nicaea acknowledging their authority over west Macedonia and Albania. The fortress of Krujë was surrendered to Nicaea, while the Nicean emperor acknowledged the old privileges and also granted new ones. The same privileges were confirmed later by his successor Theodore II Laskaris.\n\nThe Nicaeans took control of Durrës from Michael II in 1256. During the winter of 1256–57, George Akropolites tried to reinstall Byzantine authority in the area of Arbanon. Autonomy was thus banished and a new administration was imposed. This was in contrast to what the Nicaeans had promised before. The local Albanian leaders revolted and on hearing the news, Michael II also denounced the peace treaty with the Nicaea. With the support of Albanian forces he attacked the cities of Dibra, Ohrid and Prilep. In the meantime Manfred of Sicily profited from the situation and launched an invasion into Albania. His forces, led by Philip Chinard, captured Durrës, Berat, Vlorë, Spinarizza and their surroundings and the southern coastline of Albania from Vlorë to Butrint. Facing a war in two fronts, despot Michael II came to terms with Manfred and became his ally. He recognized Manfred's authority over the captured regions which were ceded as a dowry gift following the marriage of his daughter Helena to Manfred.\n\nFollowing the defeat of Michael II's and Manfred's forces in the Battle of Pelagonia, the new Nicaean forces continued their advance by capturing all of Manfred's domains in Albania, with the exception of Durrës. However, in September 1261, Manfred organized a new expedition and managed to capture all his dominions in Albania and he kept them until his death in 1266. Manfred respected the old autonomy and privileges of the local nobility and their regions. He also integrated Albanian nobles into his administration, as was the case with Andrea Vrana who was the general captain and governor of Durrës and the neighboring region of Arbanon. Albanian troops were also used by Manfred in his campaigns in Italy. Manfred appointed Philippe Chinard as the general-governor of his dominions in Albania. Initially based in Corfu, Chinard moved his headquarters to Kanina, the dominant center of the Vlorë region. There he married a relative of Michael II.\n\nAfter defeating Manfred's forces in the Battle of Benevento in 1266, the Treaty of Viterbo of 1267 was signed, with Charles of Anjou acquiring rights on Manfred's dominions in Albania, together with rights he gained in the Latin dominions in the Despotate of Epirus and in the Morea. Upon hearing the news of Manfred's death in the battle of Benevento, Michael II conspired and managed to kill Manfred's governor Philippe Chinard, with the help of Chinard's wife, but he could not capture Manfred's domains. Local noblemen and commanders refused to surrender Manfred's domains in Albania to Michael II. They gave the same negative response to Charles' envoy, Gazo Chinard in 1267, when following the articles of the Treaty of Viterbo, he asked for them to surrender Manfred's dominions in Albania.\n\nAfter the failure of the Eighth Crusade, Charles of Anjou returned his attention to Albania. He began contacting local Albanian leaders through local catholic clergy. Two local Catholic priests, namely John from Durrës and Nicola from Arbanon, acted as negotiators between Charles of Anjou and the local noblemen. During 1271 they made several trips between Albania and Italy eventually succeeding in their mission. On 21 February 1272, a delegation of Albanian noblemen and citizens from Durrës made their way to Charles' court. Charles signed a treaty with them and was proclaimed King of Albania \"by common consent of the bishops, counts, barons, soldiers and citizens\" promising to protect them and to honor the privileges they had from Byzantine Empire. The treaty declared the union between the Kingdom of Albania (Latin: \"Regnum Albanie\") with the Kingdom of Sicily under King Charles of Anjou (\"Carolus I, dei gratia rex Siciliae et Albaniae\"). He appointed Gazo Chinard as his Vicar-General and hoped to take up his expedition against Constantinople again. Throughout 1272 and 1273 he sent huge provisions to the towns of Durrës and Vlorë. This alarmed the Byzantine Emperor, Michael VIII Palaiologos, who began sending letters to local Albanian nobles, trying to convince them to stop their support for Charles of Anjou and to switch sides. The Albanian nobles sent those letter to Charles who praised them for their loyalty. Then, Michael VIII's hopes of stopping the advance of Charles were laid on the influence of Pope Gregory X. Gregory had high hopes of reconciling Europe, unifying the Greek and Latin churches, and launching a new crusade: to that end, he announced the Council of Lyon, to be held in 1274, and worked to arrange the election of an Emperor, so he ordered Charles to stop his operations.\n\nCharles of Anjou imposed a military rule on Kingdom of Albania. The autonomy and privileges promised in the treaty were \"de facto\" abolished and new taxes were imposed. Lands were confiscated in favor of Anjou nobles and Albanian nobles were excluded from their governmental tasks. In an attempt to enforce his rule and local loyalty, Charles I, took as hostages the sons of local noblemen. This created a general discontent in the country and several Albanian noblemen began contacting Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII who promised them, to acknowledge their old privileges.\n\nAs Charles I's intentions for a new offensive were stopped by the Pope and there was a general discontent within Albania, Michael VIII caught the occasion and began a campaign in Albania in late 1274. Byzantine forces helped by local Albanian noblemen captured the important city of Berat and later on Butrint. On November 1274, the local governor reported to Charles I that the Albanian and Byzantine forces had besieged Durrës. The Byzantine offensive continued and captured the port-city of Spinarizza. Thus Durrës alongside the Krujë and Vlora regions became the only domains in mainland Albania which were still under Charles I's control, but they were landlocked and isolated from each other. They could communicate with each other only by sea but the Byzantine fleet based in Spinarizza and Butrint kept them under constant pressure. Charles also managed to keep the island of Corfu.\n\nMichael VIII also scored another important diplomatic victory on Charles I by agreeing to unite the two churches in the Second Council of Lyon in 1274. Enthusiastic from the results of the council, Pope Gregory X, forbade any attempt by Charles on Michael VIII's forces. Under these circumstances Charles of Anjou was forced to sign a truce with Michael VIII in 1276.\n\nThe Byzantine presence in Butrint alarmed Nikephoros I Komnenos Doukas the Despot of Epirus. He contacted Charles of Anjou and his vassal William II of Villehardouin who was at that time the prince of Achaea. Nikephoros I promised to make an oath of homage to Charles of Anjou in return for some land property in Achaia. In 1278 Nikephoros I's troops captured the city of Butrint. In March 1279 Nikephoros I declared himself a vassal of Charles of Anjou and surrendered to him the castles of Sopot and Butrint. As a pledge, Nikephoros I delivered his own son to the Angevin castellan of Vlorë to be held as hostage. Ambassadors were exchanged in this occasion, but Charles did not wait for the formalities to end; instead he ordered his captain and vicar-general at Corfu to capture not only Butrint, but everything that once belonged to Manfred and now were under the Despotate of Epirus.\n\nAt the same time Charles began creating a network of alliances in the area in the brick of the new offensive, which would have pointed first to Thessaloníki and later to Constantinople. He entered in alliance with the kings of Serbia and Bulgaria. He also tried to get the support of the local Albanian nobles. After continuous requests from other Albanian nobles, he liberated from Neapolitan prisons a number of Albanian nobles who were arrested before being accused of collaborating with Byzantine forces. Among them were Gjin Muzaka, Dhimitër Zogu and Guljem Blinishti. Gjin Muzaka especially was important to Charles' plans because the Muzaka family territories were around city of Berat. They were liberated, but were ordered to send their sons as hostages in Naples.\n\nOn August 1279, Charles of Anjou appointed Hugo de Sully as \"Captain and Vicar-General of Albania, Durrës, Vlorë, Sopot, Butrint and Corfu\". In the following months a great Angevin counteroffensive was prepared. A lot of materials and men including Saracen archers and siege engineers were sent to de Sully, who had captured Spinarizza from Byzantine forces making it his headquarters. The first goal of the expedition was the recapture of the city of Berat, which had been under Byzantine control since 1274. However, Charles' preparations were restrained by Pope Nicholas III who had forbidden Charles from attacking the Byzantine Empire. However, Pope Nicholas III died on August 1280 and for more than six months the Pope's seat was vacant. This gave Charles an opportunity to move on. During Autumn 1280 he gave the order to Hugo de Sully to move on. In December 1280 Angevin forces captured the surroundings of Berat and besieged its castle.\n\nThe Byzantine Emperor was hoping for the Pope to stop his Latin adversaries. In fact after the death in 1276 of Pope Gregory X, the main supporter of the union of the churches, his successors maintained the same course and this restricted Charles' movements. However, in February 1281 Charles of Anjou achieved a diplomatic victory by imposing a French Pope, as the head of the Catholic Church. The Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII was excommunicated by the new Pope and Charles' expedition against him blessed as a new crusade.\n\nThe situation was very complicated for Michael VIII; however, he sent help to the besieged garrison. The Byzantine army which also included Turkish mercenaries arrived near Berat in March 1281. They were under orders to avoid pitched battle and to focus on ambushes and raids. They managed to defeat Angevin forces by capturing first their commander Hugo de Sully in an ambush. This spread panic throughout his army, routing them from the battlefield. The Angevin army lost the major part of its forces and only a small part found refuge in the Kaninë castle, which was in Angevin hands. The Byzantine army continued its advance further into the territory. They besieged the Angevin bases of Vlorë, Kaninë, and Durrës but could not capture them. The Albanian nobles in the region of Krujë allied themselves with the Byzantine Emperor and he granted them a charter of privileges for their city and bishopric.\n\nThe failure of Hugo de Sully's expedition convinced Charles of Anjou that an invasion of the Byzantine Empire by land was not feasible, and he thus considered a naval expedition against Byzantium. He found an ally in Venice and in July 1281, the Treaty of Orvieto formalized this collaboration. Its stated purpose was the dethronement of Michael VIII in favor of the titular Latin emperor Philip of Courtenay and the forcible establishment of the Union of the Churches, bringing the Greek Orthodox Church under the authority of the Pope. Its principal motivation, however, was to re-establish the Latin Empire, under Angevin domination, and to restore Venetian commercial privileges in Constantinople.\n\nUnder the terms of the treaty, Philip and Charles were to supply 8,000 troops and cavalry, and sufficient ships to transport them to Constantinople. Philip, the Doge of Venice Giovanni Dandolo, and Charles himself or Charles' son, Charles, Prince of Salerno, were to personally accompany the expedition. In practice, Charles would have supplied almost all of the troops, Philip having little or no resources of his own. The Venetians would supply forty galleys as escorts for the invasion fleet, which was to sail from Brindisi no later than April 1283. Upon Philip's restoration to the throne, he was to confirm the concessions of the Treaty of Viterbo and the privileges granted to Venice at the founding of the Latin Empire, including recognition of the Doge as \"dominator\" of \"one-fourth and one-eighth of the Latin Empire.\"\n\nA second document was also drawn up to organize a vanguard to precede the main expedition of 1283. Charles and Philip were to supply fifteen ships and ten transports with about 300 men and horses. The Venetians were to provide fifteen warships for seven months of the year. These forces would make war against Michael VIII and \"other occupiers\" of the Latin Empire (presumably the Genoese), and would meet in Corfu by 1 May 1282, paving the way for the next year's invasion.\n\nThe two treaties were signed by Charles and Philip on 3 July 1281, and were ratified by the Doge of Venice on 2 August 1281.\n\nOn Easter Monday 30 March 1282, in Sicily the local people began attacking French forces in an uprising which would become known as the Sicilian Vespers. The massacre went on for weeks throughout the island and they also destroyed the Angevin fleet gathered in the harbor of Messina which Charles had intended to use in the new expedition against Byzantium. Charles tried to suppress the uprising, but on 30 of August 1282, Peter III of Aragon landed in Sicily, it was clear that Charles had no more chances of attacking Byzantium. In September 1282, the Angevin house forever lost Sicily. His son Charles II of Naples was captured by the Aragonese army in the Battle of the Gulf of Naples and was still a prisoner when his father, Charles of Anjou, died on 7 January 1285. Upon his death Charles left all of his domains to his son, who at the time was held by the Catalans. He was kept as prisoner up to 1289, when he was finally released.\n\nThe Angevin resistance continued for some years in Kaninë, Durrës and Vlorë. However Durrës fell in Byzantine hands in 1288 and in the same year Byzantine Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos renewed the privileges that his predecessor had granted to the Albanians in the Krujë region. Kaninë castle was the last to fall to the Byzantines probably in 1294, while Corfu and Butrint remained in Angevin hands at least up to 1292. In 1296 Serbian king Stephen Milutin took possession of Durrës. In 1299 Andronikos II Palaiologos married his daughter Simonis to Milutin and the lands he had conquered were considered as a dowry gift.\n\nAlthough the Albanian territories were lost, the notion and rights of the Kingdom of Albania continued for the Angevins for a long time after Charles of Anjou's death. The Kingdom was inherited by Charles II after the death of his father in 1285. In August 1294, Charles II passed his rights on Albania to his son Philip I, Prince of Taranto. In November 1294, Philip I was married to the daughter of the Epirote Despot Nikephoros I, renewing the old alliance between the two states. His plans of recovering old Angevin domains were paused for a while when in 1299 Philip of Taranto became a prisoner of Frederick III of Sicily in the Battle of Falconaria. However, after his release in 1302, he claimed his rights on the Albanian kingdom and began preparations to recover it. He gained the support of local Albanian Catholics who preferred a Catholic Italian power as their protector instead of the Orthodox Serbs and Greeks, as well as the support of Pope Benedict XI. In the summer of 1304, Serbs were expelled from the city of Durrës by its citizens and local nobles, who in September submitted themselves to Angevin rule. Philip and his father Charles II renewed the old privileges that Charles of Anjou had promised to the citizens and nobility of Durrës. In 1305, further extensive exemptions from dues and taxes were granted to the citizens of Durrës and the local nobles from Charles II.\n\nThe territory of the Kingdom of Albania under Philip of Taranto was restricted to roughly the modern Durrës District. In an attempt to resolve the tensions between the house of Anjou and the Aragonese, the Kingdom of Albania and the lands in Achaea under Angevin dominion were offered in exchange for the Kingdom of Trinacria ruled by Frederick II. These negotiations lasted some years but were abandoned in 1316.\n\nUpon the death of Philip of Taranto in 1332, there were various claims on his domains within the Angevin family. The rights of the Duchy of Durazzo (Durrës) and the Kingdom of Albania together were given to John of Gravina with a sum of 5,000 pounds of gold. After his death in 1336, his dominions in Albania passed to his son Charles, Duke of Durazzo.\n\nDuring this period there were different Albanian noble families who began consolidating their power and domains. One of them was the Thopia family whose domains were in central Albania. The Serbs were pressing hard in their direction and the Albanian nobles found a natural ally in the Angevins. Alliance with Albanian leaders was also crucial to the safety of the Kingdom of Albania, especially during the 1320s and 1330s. Most prominent among these leaders were the Thopias, ruling in an area between the rivers Mat and Shkumbin, and the Muzaka family in the territory between the rivers Shkumbin and Vlorë. They saw the Angevins as protectors of their domains and made alliances. During 1336–1337 Charles had various successes against Serb forces in central Albania.\n\nThe pressure of the Serbian Kingdom on the Kingdom of Albania grew especially under the leadership of Stefan Dušan. Although the fate of city of Durrës, the capital of the Kingdom, is unknown, by 1346 all Albania was reported to be under the rule of Dushan. In 1348, Charles, Duke of Durazzo, was decapitated by his cousin Philip II, Prince of Taranto, who also inherited his rights on the Kingdom of Albania. Meanwhile, in Albania, after the death of Dušan, his empire began to disintegrate and, in central Albania, the Thopia family under Karl Topia, claimed rights to the Kingdom of Albania. In fact Stefan Uroš I was married to Helen of Anjou and Karl Topia was recognized as Count of Albania. Karl Thopia took Durrës from the Angevins in 1368 with the consensus of its citizens. In 1376 Louis of Évreux, Duke of Durazzo who had gained the rights on the Albanian Kingdom from his second wife, attacked and conquered the city, but in 1383, Thopia took once again control of the city.\n\nIn 1385 the city of Durrës was captured by Balša II. Topia called for Ottoman help and Balša's forces were defeated in the Battle of Savra. Topia recaptured the city of Durrës the same year and held it until his death in 1388. Afterwards, the city of Durrës was inherited by his son Gjergj, Lord of Durrës. In 1392 Gjergj surrendered the city of Durrës and his domains to the Republic of Venice.\n\nThe kingdom of Albania was a distinct entity from the Kingdom of Naples. The kingdom had the nature of a military oriented political structure. It had its own structure and organs of government which was located in Durrës. At the head of this governmental body was the captain-general who had the status of a viceroy. These persons usually had the title of \"capitaneus et vicarius generalis\" and were the head of the army also, while the local forces were commanded by persons who held the title \"marescallus in partibus Albaniae\".\n\nThe royal resources, especially income from salt production and trade, were paid to the \"thesaurius\" of Albania. The port of Durrës and sea trade were essential to the kingdom. The port was under the command of \"prothontius\" and the Albanian fleet had its own captain. Other offices were created and functioned under the authority of the viceroy.\n\nWith the attrition of the territory of the kingdom, the persons appointed as captain-generals began losing their powers, becoming more like governors of Durrës, than representatives of the king.\n\nThe role of local Albanian lords became more and more important to the fate of the kingdom and the Angevins integrated them into their military structure especially in the second phase of the kingdom. When Philip of Taranto returned in 1304, one Albanian noble, Gulielm Blinishti, was appointed head of Angevin army in the Kingdom of Albania with the title \"marascallum regnie Albaniae\". He was succeeded in 1318 by Andrea I Muzaka. From 1304 on, other western titles of nobility were bestowed by the Angevins upon the local Albanian lords.\n\nAlthough the Angevins tried to install a centralized state apparatus, they left great autonomy to the Albanians cities. In fact, in 1272 it was Charles of Anjou himself who recognized the old privileges of Durrës' community.\n\nHistorically the territory where the Kingdom of Albania lay was subject to different metropolitan powers such as Antivari, Durrës, Ohrid and Nicopolis, where Catholicism, Greek, Serbian and Bulgarian Churches applied their power interchangeably or sometimes even together. The presence of the kingdom reinforced the influence of Catholicism and the conversion to its rite, not only in the region of Durrës but also in other parts of the country.\n\nThe Archbishopric of Durrës was one of the primary bishoprics in Albania and before the Great Schism (1054), it had 15 episcopal sees under its authority. After the split it remained under the authority of Eastern Church while there were continuous, but fruitless efforts from the Roman church to convert it to the Latin rite. However, things changed after the fall of Byzantine Empire in 1204. In 1208, a Catholic archdeacon was elected for the archbishopric of Durrës. After the reconquest of Durrës by the Despotate of Epirus in 1214, the Latin Archbishop of Durrës was replaced by an Orthodox archbishop. After his death in 1225, various nearby metropolitan powers fought over the vacant seat. At last a Nicean archbishop was appointed in 1256 but he could not effectively run its office since, in 1258, the city was captured by Manfred.\n\nAfter the creation of Kingdom of Albania in 1272, a Catholic political structure was a good basis for the papal plans of spreading Catholicism in the Balkans. This plan found also the support of Helen of Anjou, a spouse of King Stefan Uroš I and cousin of Charles of Anjou, as Queen consort of the Serbian Kingdom, who was at that time ruling territories in North Albania. Around 30 Catholic churches and monasteries were built during her rule in North Albania and in Serbia. New bishoprics were created especially in North Albania, with the help of Helen of Anjou.\n\nDurrës became again a Catholic archbishopric in 1272. Other territories of the Kingdom of Albania became Catholic centers as well. Butrint in the south, although dependent on Corfu, became Catholic and remained as such during 14th century. The same happened to Vlorë and Krujë as soon as the Kingdom of Albania was created.\n\nA new wave of Catholic dioceses, churches and monasteries were founded, a number of different religious orders began spreading into the country, and papal missionaries also reached the territories of the Kingdom of Albania. Those who were not Catholic in Central and North Albania converted and a great number of Albanian clerics and monks were present in the Dalmatian Catholic institutions.\n\nHowever, in Durrës the Byzantine rite continued to exist for a while after Angevin conquest. This double-line of authority created some confusion in the local population and a contemporary visitor of the country described Albanians as \"nor they are entirely Catholic or entirely schismatic\". In order to fight this religious ambiguity, in 1304, Dominicans were ordered by Pope Benedict XI to enter the country and to instruct the locals in the Latin rite. Dominican priests were also ordered as bishops in Vlorë and Butrint.\n\nAmong the Catholic orders operating during that period in Albania, one could mention the Franciscan order, Carmelites, Cistercians and Premonstratensians. Also from time to time, the local bishops were appointed from different orders as different popes had their favorites among them.\n\nKrujë became an important center for the spread of Catholicism. Its bishopric had been Catholic since 1167. It was under direct dependence from the pope and it was the pope himself who consecrated the bishop. Local Albanian nobles maintained good relations with the Papacy. Its influence became so great, that it began to nominate local bishops.\n\nThe Catholic cause had a drawback while Stephan Dushan ruled in Albania. The Catholic rite was called \"Latin heresy\" and Dushan's code contained harsh measures against them. However, the persecutions of local catholic Albanians did not begin in 1349 when the Code was promulgated, but much earlier, at least since the beginning of 14th century. Under these circumstances the relations between local Catholic Albanians and the papal curia became very close.\n\nBetween 1350 and 1370, the spread of Catholicism in Albania reached its peak. At that period there were around seventeen Catholic bishoprics in the country, which acted not only as centers for Catholic reform within Albania, but also as centers for missionary activity in the neighboring areas, with the permission of the pope.\n\nWhile the Byzantine Pronoia was the dominant form in the country, the Angevins introduced the Western type of feudalism. In the 13th and 14th centuries, pronoiars earned a great number of privileges and attributes, taking power away from the central authority. The benefit earned by the pronoiars from their land increased. Pronoiars began to collect land taxes for themselves which was an attribute of the state. They also began to exercise administrative authorities which replaced the state's, such as the ability to gather workers, guards, soldiers, and sometimes their own judges. In the 13th century, it was common for pronoiars to arrogate their own right to trial, initially for petty issues and then for serious crimes, taking away central authority from the main prerogatives to the practice of sovereignty.\n\nBy the 14th century, the pronoia had reached the status of feudal possession. It could now be passed on to succession, split, and sold. The pronoia increasingly rarely fulfilled the military needs of the state. Alongside the pronoiars were landowners who owned large tracts of land worked by farmers. The landownership also included pronoiars from Durrës, Shkodër, and Drisht. Citizens of Durrës owned property and grazing land in the nearby mountain of Temali. The splitting, inheritance, and selling of the property was a common occurrence.\n\nThe feudal possessions in Albania, as in the West and the Byzantine Empire, were made up of two parts: the land of the peasants and the land which was directly owned by the lords of the land. The peasant's land was not centralized, but was split into many small plots, often far from each other. The lord's land was continually expanded along the same lines that the aristocracy strengthened.\n\nLand was also centralized under religious institutions, including monasteries and bishoprics. Unlike the 12th century, where the area under control was donated by the central authority, after the 12th century, most donors of land to the monasteries and bishoprics were small and large landowners. By the beginning of the 14th century, monasteries and bishoprics had been able to collect large sums of land funds. The income of the monasteries came mainly from agricultural products, but a small part also came from craftwork and other activities. A central source of income to the church were from taxes gathered in kind and in cash. A good of portion went to Rome or Constantinople. The delivery of bonds was one of the causes of friction between the local clergy and the Pope in Rome or the Patriarch in Constantinople.\n\nIn an effort to find additional means of finance, especially in times of war, the central authority imposed high taxes on the population. The pyramid of society depended upon the work of the farmers. Besides the main category of farmers, categories of farmers included \"free\" farmer and \"foreign\" farmers. They were deprived of land and any form of possession and were therefore not registered, placing them in a feud for the quality of wages. Eventually, they received a piece of land for which they paid their duties, and were fused with the main category of farmers.\n\nThe feudal duties of the peasant were not the same for all the Albanian areas but differed according to the terrain. The systems of payment in kind or in cash also changed accordingly, but the strengthening of the nobility against the central authority in the 13th century caused the payments in cash to increase compared to payments in kind. From the 12th to the 14th century, the vertical shift of power to the nobles was deepened. Not only were the plains brought under the control of the nobles, but also mountainous areas. The feudal possessions also began to include communal areas such as forests, pastures, and fisheries. This evolution took place during the period of Byzantine decline and saw the conversion of the pronoia into an estate very similar to the feudal one.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of the population under the lords' rule was made up of agricultural workers. Contemporary sources reveal that in large parts of Albania, the village population had fallen to the status of serfdom. An anonymous traveler in 1308 revealed that farmers in the regions of Këlcyrë, Tomorricë, Stefaniakë, Kunavë, and Pultë of Dibra worked the lands and vineyards of their respective lords, turned over their products, and performed household work for them. The Byzantine historian Kantakouzenos, testifies that the power of the lords of these areas depended mostly on livestock which were present in large numbers.\n\nDuring the 13th century, many cities in Albania made the move from being primarily military strongholds to becoming urban centers. Unable to contain the development inside the city walls, many cities expanded outside them. Quarters outside the walls began to form, called \"proastion\" and \"suburbium\" and became important economic centers. In these quarters, trade took place and shops along with workshops were centered here. Eventually, many of these quarters too were surrounded by walls to protect them. In order to secure a supply of water, cisterns in open, safe spaces were used to gather water. In some unique cases, water was also gathered from nearby rivers.\n\nIn the first half of the 14th century, the population of the cities grew greatly. Durrës is estimated to have had 25,000 inhabitants. The city became a center which attracted inhabitants from the rural areas. Durrës is known to have had a large number of inhabitants who came from the surrounding villages. Those farmers who migrated to the city were often forced to pay a fixed payment or to make up for this payment by working in a commune. Along with the farmers came noblemen from the surrounding areas, who either migrated permanently or spent a large amount of time in the cities to look after their economic interests. Many had possessions, stores, and houses in the city. The movement of noblemen to urban areas became normal and they were eventually integrated into the city become citizens and often taking government positions.\n\nThe spread of Catholicism affected the architecture of religious buildings, with a new Gothic style, mainly in the Center and North Albania. These areas were attached to the Catholic church and thus had greater Western connections. Both the Catholic and Orthodox churches operated in Durrës and the surrounding areas, and therefore both Western and Byzantine architectural styles were followed. Western architecture could also be found in areas where Western rulers had possessions. Churches built in this form were built in Upper and Central Albania and were characterized by an emphasis on an East-West longitudinal axis with circular or rectangular apses. Among the most notable architectural monuments of this period include the Church of Shirgj Monastery near the village of Shirgj near Shkodër, the Church of Saint Mary in Vau i Dejës, and the Church of Rubik. The former two churches were built in the 13th century AD while the latter in the 12th century AD. Most of the churches built in this period were decorated with murals.\n\n\nCharles surrendered his rights to Albania to his son Philip in 1294. Philip reigned as \"Lord of the Kingdom of Albania\".\n\n\nPhilip died on 26 December 1331, and was succeeded by his son Robert. Robert's uncle, John, did not wish to do him homage for the Principality of Achaea, so Robert received Achaea from John in exchange for 5,000 ounces of gold and the rights to the diminished Kingdom of Albania. John took the style of Duke of Durazzo.\n\n\nIn 1368, Durazzo fell to Karl Topia, who was recognized by Venice as \"Prince of Albania\".\nThese officers were styled \"Capitaneus et vicaris generalis in regno Albaniae\".\n\nThese officers were styled \"Marescallus in regni Albaniae\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1947671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947671", "title": "Genista stenopetala", "text": "Genista stenopetala\n\nGenista stenopetala (Sweet Broom, Easter Broom or leafy broom; syn. \"Genista spachiana\", \"Cytisus spachianus\") is a broom native to the Canary Islands, on La Palma and Tenerife.\n\nIt is an evergreen shrub growing to tall. The leaves are trifoliate, the leaflets long, narrow elliptic, coated with fine silky, silvery hairs. The flowers are yellow, long, produced in racemes long. The fruit is a pod long.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947676", "title": "Devils Elbow, Missouri", "text": "Devils Elbow, Missouri\n\nDevils Elbow is an unincorporated community in Pulaski County, Missouri, United States on historic U.S. Highway 66. It is situated on the Big Piney River and is named for a particularly bad place in the river known as a \"devil of an elbow\". The community is approximately five miles (8 km) east of St. Robert. The floods of May 2017 destroyed much of the historic area, including the post office, but it is in the process of being rebuilt.\n\nA post office called Devils Elbow was in use from 1927 until the floods in May 2017. The first postmaster was Dwight Rench, who with his two sons built the Devils Elbow Café, from stone taken from the bluff along the river. It became known as the HideAway in the 1950s. Several cabins were also built for fishermen who would come to fish the river. The community took its name from a nearby meander on the Big Piney River.\n\nThe major east-west route is Interstate 44; before its construction, the main highway was U.S. Route 66, which still exists as a scenic route through the area and passes through Devil's Elbow, St. Robert, Waynesville, Buckhorn, and Hazelgreen. Names for U.S. Route 66 vary - at different places, it is called Teardrop Road, Highway Z, Old Route 66, Historic Route 66, and Highway 17. State-posted signs mark most of the alignment of the road.\n\nThe original alignment of Route 66, now known as Teardrop Road, runs through Devil's Elbow and is the site of the historic Devil's Elbow Bridge. A later realignment, Highway Z, runs near Devil's Elbow and bypasses the community.\n\nThree bridges cross the Big Piney River at Devils Elbow—the modern Interstate 44 bridge, the later U.S. Route 66 alignment on Highway Z that was made possible by the Hooker Cut through a steep hillside, and the original U.S. Route 66 alignment on Teardrop Road that includes a historic bridge that's in the process of renovation.\n"}
{"id": "1947677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947677", "title": "Runt (album)", "text": "Runt (album)\n\nRunt is the self-titled debut album of the band Runt, released June 1970 on Ampex Records. Runt was a trio consisting of Todd Rundgren (guitars, keyboards, vocals), Hunt Sales (drums), and Tony Fox Sales (bass). The entire album was written and produced by Rundgren, formerly of Nazz, and he is the only member of Runt to perform on four of the nine cuts. Many regarded \"Runt\" as Rundgren's debut solo album, and later reissues credit the album to Rundgren rather than to the group. \n\nInitially dividing critics upon its release, the record runs the gamut from blues-styled guitar workouts (\"Birthday Carol\", \"Broke Down and Busted\") to power pop (\"Devil's Bite\", \"Don't Tie My Hands\") to Laura Nyro-styled piano pop (\"We Gotta Get You a Woman\", \"Baby Let's Swing\", \"The Last Thing You Said\") to rock 'n' roll (\"Who's That Man\") to piano ballads (\"Believe in Me\", \"Once Burned\", the middle section of \"Birthday Carol\"), as well as more experimental numbers (the sarcastic, prog-rock tinged \"I'm in the Clique\", \"There Are No Words\").\n\nThe album features the single \"We Gotta Get You a Woman\", which reached number 20 on \"Billboard\"s Hot 100 in 1971.\n\nUpon its release in June 1970 the album was issued with 10 tracks. After \"We Gotta Get You a Woman\" became a hit single, Ampex decided to press more copies of the LP in November 1970 to keep up with demand. A 12-track master of the LP, which Rundgren had rejected in favor of a second mix, was accidentally sent to the pressing plant, resulting in approximately 5,000 mis-presses. Instead of throwing out the LPs, Ampex decided to sell them anyway, unmarked, as a sort of surprise to the purchaser. There was also an 11 track version which has the standard 6 tracks on Side One and 5 tracks on Side Two featuring The full length version of \"Baby Let's Swing\" and \"Say No More\". This version may have been pressed in even smaller numbers than the 12 track version. This album as well as \"\" were issued in 1971 on the Bearsville label, being distributed by Ampex at the time. In mid-1971 Bearsville was purchased by Warner Bros. distribution, and plans were made to re-release each album with Runt as catalog number BV 2046 and Ballad as BV 2047. These were never pressed. Later in 1973 Warner Bros wanted Bearsville to re-release both albums as a \"twin pack\" entitled \"Todd Rundgren's Rack Job\" (Catalog number 2BV 2156). The album got as far as test presses and album art but was shelved, as Rundgren wanted to release an album of new material instead.\n\nAll songs by Todd Rundgren.\n\n\n\n\nThere were also 2 early issues on cassette with alternate track listings. The first issue was the 1970 Ampex release which reverses Sides One and Two of the LP, in order to sequence the longer side first. The second issue was the 1971 Bearsville Ampex release which has a radically different track listing as well as edited versions of \"Devil's Bite\", \"Broke Down and Busted\", \"I'm in the Clique\", \"There are No Words\", \"Birthday Carol\" and has the medley split in two.\n\nIn 2011 reissue label Edsel released an expanded twofer of \"Runt\" and \"Runt: The Ballad of Todd Rundgren\" that included the eight long-out-of-print alternate versions of songs from the 12-track misprint as bonus tracks. In 2014, Edsel issued \"Runt + The Alternative Runt\", a double CD set that contained the original \"Runt\" on the first disc, the November 1970 misprint on the second disc, and \"Broke Down and Busted (live at Carnegie Hall, June 8, 1972)\" as a bonus track.\n\n\nAlbum\nSingles\n"}
{"id": "1947680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947680", "title": "Nooksack Salmon Enhancement Association", "text": "Nooksack Salmon Enhancement Association\n\nNooksack Salmon Enhancement Association (NSEA) was formed in 1990 as a non-profit organization with an overall goal of seeing an increase in returning natural spawning salmon to the over 1,600 km of rivers and streams in Whatcom County, Washington in the United States. The association was formed as part of Washington State's Regional Fisheries Enhancement Groups Program established by the Washington State Legislature in 1990 to involve local communities, citizen volunteers, and landowners in the state's salmon recovery efforts. NSEA is one of 14 groups in Washington State each with the common goal of restoring salmonid populations and habitat within their region.\n\nWhatcom County is home to the five species of Pacific salmon (chinook, chum, coho, pink, sockeye and kokanee, a lake resident sockeye), along with several other salmonids (bull trout, Dolly Varden, both sea-run and resident coastal cutthroat, and steelhead and rainbow trout) which rely heavily on the return of salmon each year.\n\nThe main focus of the NSEA is to restore lowland riparian areas. These areas are commonly impacted by human activities such as urban development, agriculture, and timber harvest. Riparian areas slow runoff, filter chemicals and excess nutrients caused by agriculture, shade the water, and slow the process of erosion to riverbanks. The NSEA deals with the issue of riparian destruction by leading many volunteer projects each year. The aim of these projects are to replant native trees and shrubs along stream banks, construct fences to keep livestock out, do an array of in-stream habitat improvement projects including adding large woody debris or gravel to streams, and stabilize eroding or undercut banks. Along with habitat restoration, the NSEA gives many free educational seminars to the local area, along with local schools, on how they can help with salmon management. The current executive director of NSEA is Rachel Vasak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947681", "title": "William Brocius", "text": "William Brocius\n\nWilliam Brocius (1845 – March 24, 1882), better known as Curly Bill Brocius, was a gunman, rustler and an outlaw Cowboy in the Cochise County area of the Arizona Territory during the early 1880s. His name is likely an alias or nickname, and some evidence links him to another outlaw named William \"Curly Bill\" Bresnaham, who was convicted of an 1878 attempted robbery and murder in El Paso, Texas.\n\nBrocius had a number of conflicts with the lawmen of the Earp family, and he was named as one of the individuals who participated in Morgan Earp's assassination. Deputy U.S. Marshal Wyatt Earp and a group of deputies including his brother Warren Earp pursued those they believed responsible for Morgan's death. The Earp posse unexpectedly encountered Curly Bill and other Cowboys on March 24, 1882, at Iron Springs (present day Mescal Springs). Wyatt killed Curly Bill during the shootout. In his journal written in October 1881, George Parsons referred to Brocius as \"Arizona's most famous outlaw\".\n\nBrocius arrived in Arizona Territory from either Texas or Missouri about 1878, and went briefly to the San Carlos Reservation with a herd of cattle, before arriving in the Arizona Territory.\n\nBrocius was an Outlaw Cowboy and a rustler, and was for a time also a tax collector for Cochise County Sheriff Johnny Behan, making other rustlers pay taxes on their stolen cattle (the money went into the sheriff's coffers and added to his salary).\n\nBrocius was known for a mean sense of humor when drunk. He was reported to have perpetrated such \"practical jokes\" as using gunfire to make a preacher \"dance\" during a sermon and making Mexicans at a community dance take off their clothes and dance naked. (Both incidents were reported by Wells Fargo agent Fred Dodge in his memoirs, and both incidents are alluded to in the newspapers of the time).\n\nAn unauthenticated photo of Brocius is displayed in the Bird Cage Theater Museum in Tombstone. Two other unauthenticated photos of Brocius have been provided by descendants. Several writers who knew Brocius reported that he was well-built with curly black hair and a freckled complexion.\n\nIn a drunken revelry, some of Curly Bill's friends were firing pistols into the air on October 28, 1880, in a dark vacant lot between Toughnut and Allen Streets, near where the Birdcage Theater now stands. Tombstone's Town Marshal Fred White attempted to disarm Brocius and grabbed his weapon by the barrel. The gun discharged, striking White in the groin. Wyatt Earp had borrowed Fred Dodge's pistol and he pistol-whipped Brocius. At the preliminary hearing for Brocius afterward, Wyatt testified that he had heard White say: \"I am an officer; give me your pistol.\" When he got close, he saw Brocius remove his pistol from his holster and White grab it by the barrel. He said he put his arms around Brocius from behind to see if he had any other weapons, and White \"gave a quick jerk and the pistol went off.\" White fell to the ground, wounded. When the pistol discharged, Wyatt buffaloed Brocius and arrested him. Brocius complained, \"What have I done? I have not done anything to be arrested for.\"\n\nWhite was carried to a doctor and they initially thought he would recover, and the next day, he gave a statement that exonerated Curly Bill of murder, but that night, White's condition worsened. Brocius later claimed that his gun discharged accidentally and reportedly immediately regretted shooting White. He testified at his trial that he did not consider himself to have committed a crime. Brocius waived his right to a preliminary hearing, apparently because he feared a lynching, as White was very popular as town marshal. Brocius was anxious to be moved out of town. Pima County Deputy Sheriff Earp and George Collins immediately took Brocius to Tucson for trial.\n\nWhite died two days after Curly Bill shot him. Before dying, White testified that he thought the pistol had accidentally discharged and that he did not believe that Curly Bill shot him on purpose. Wyatt Earp supported this testimony, (ironically, given his later vendetta against Brocius and the rest of the Cowboy gang) as did a demonstration that Brocius's pistol could be fired from half-cock, and the fact that it had been found to contain six rounds, with only one of them fired. After spending most of November and December 1880 in jail awaiting trial, Brocius was acquitted with a verdict of accidental death.\n\nWyatt told his biographer John H. Flood, Jr., many years later that he thought that Brocius was still armed at the time and did not notice that Brocius' pistol lay on the ground in the dark, until Brocius was already down. Despite being responsible for the deaths of several other men during his life, Brocius had apparently personally liked White and maintained that his death had been an accident.\n\nBrocius was described by contemporary author Billy Breakenridge in his book, \"Helldorado: Bringing the Law to the Mesquite,\" as being the most deadly pistol shot of the Cowboys: \"able to hit running jackrabbits, shoot out candle flames without breaking the candles or lantern holders, and shoot quarters from between the fingers of volunteers\". When drunk, Brocius was also known for a mean sense of humor and for such \"practical jokes\" as using gunfire to make a preacher \"dance\" during a sermon or forcing Mexicans at a community dance to take off their clothes and dance naked. Wells Fargo agent Fred Dodge reported both incidents in his memoirs, and both were alluded to in local newspapers.\n\nOn March 8, 1881, Brocius and his friend Johnny Ringo rode to Maxey, near Camp Thomas, Arizona. Cowboy Dick Lloyd got drunk while playing poker in O'Neil and Franklin's saloon. After shooting and wounding one man, Lloyd rode his horse into the saloon where Brocius was drinking. Brocius and several other men resented the interruption, and about a dozen of them, including Brocius, shot and killed Lloyd. Owner O'Neil took the blame and was acquitted.\n\nOn May 25, 1881, Brocius was drinking heavily in Galeyville with his friend of several months and Lincoln County War veteran Jim Wallace and eight or nine other cowboys. Wallace insulted Brocius' friend and ally, Tombstone Deputy Marshal Billy Breakenridge. Breakenridge ignored him, but Brocius took offense and insisted that Wallace accompany him and apologize to Breakenridge. Brocius threatened to kill him. Wallace complied, but Brocius afterward heaped abuse on Wallace, announcing, \"You damned Lincoln County son of a bitch, I'll kill you anyhow.\" Wallace left the saloon and Curly Bill followed him. Feeling threatened, Wallace shot Curly Bill, wounding him in the cheek and neck.\n\nMarshal Breakenridge arrested Wallace, but the court ruled he acted in self-defense. Curly Bill may have first met Pony Diehl around this time, as well. Diehl was implicated in several Cowboy criminal activities later on.\n\nIn July 1881, Bill Leonard and Harry Head attempted to rob William and Isaac Haslett's general store in Hachita, New Mexico. The Haslett brothers killed Leonard and Head during the hold-up. Some modern researchers state that Brocius and friend Johnny Ringo rode to New Mexico to avenge their friends' deaths and killed both Haslett brothers. However, no witnesses to this crime were found nor to Curly Bill's involvement in the Hasletts' death.\n\nFour months after Brocius was shot, on October 6, 1881, George Parsons rode through the McLaury brothers' ranch in Sulphur Springs Valley as part of an Indian scouting party, and noted that Brocius had not yet fully recovered from his wound, but was well enough to ride. For this reason, many historians doubt that Brocius took part in killing William and Isaac Haslett.\n\nIn July, some reports say that Brocius ambushed a Mexican trail herd in what became known as the Skeleton Canyon Massacre. Six\" vaqueros\" were killed and the remainder captured, then possibly tortured and murdered. Curly Bill reportedly sold the stolen Mexican beef to Newman Haynes Clanton the next month. When Old Man Clanton was herding the beef on the trail to Tombstone, he and four others were ambushed in the Guadalupe Canyon Massacre and murdered by Mexicans. No reports were verified of Curly Bill's involvement in these episodes, nor was he charged with any crimes related to these events.\n\nBrocius was still recovering from being shot in the face by Wallace only six weeks earlier. Some modern researchers doubt that he was well enough to take part in these events.\n\nFollowing the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral on October 26, 1881, Brocius robbed the Tombstone-Bisbee stagecoach on January 6, 1882, and the Tombstone-Benson stage the next day. Deputy U.S. Marshal Wyatt Earp gathered a posse and rode after the men, but was unable to find them in the Chiricahua Mountains. Brocius returned to Tombstone on March 17. He was named by Pete Spence's wife Marietta Duarte as a participant in the assassination of Morgan Earp. Justice of the Peace Wells Spicer disallowed her testimony because it was hearsay and because she could not testify against her husband. Lacking evidence, the prosecution dropped all charges against the Cowboys. Deputy U.S. Marshal Wyatt Earp killed outlaw Cowboy Frank Stilwell in Tucson on March 20, 1882, while guarding his brother Virgil en route to California.\n\nOn March 24, 1882, the Earp party was expecting to meet Charlie Smith at Iron Springs (later Mescal Springs), in the Whetstone Mountains. Smith was bringing cash from Tombstone about to the east to help pay posse expenses. As they surmounted the edge of a wash near the springs, they stumbled upon Brocius, Pony Diehl, Johnny Barnes, Frank Patterson, Milt Hicks, Bill Hicks, Bill Johnson, Ed Lyle, and Johnny Lyle, cooking a meal alongside the spring.\n\nAccording to Wyatt Earp — and an anonymous report to \"The Tombstone Epitaph\"— he was in the lead of the posse when they suddenly came upon the Cowboys' camp at the springs from less than 30 feet (9m) behind an embankment. The Cowboys began firing just as Earp dismounted, and thought for a moment they had shot him, but had hit his saddle horn instead. Texas Jack Vermillion, whose horse was killed, remained cool under fire and stuck close to Wyatt during the fight. Doc, Johnson, and McMasters fired their weapons and sought cover. Warren Earp was away on an errand at the time.\n\nEighteen months prior, Wyatt Earp had protected Brocius against a mob ready to lynch him for killing Town Marshal Fred White, and then provided testimony that helped spare him from a murder conviction. Now Brocius fired at Earp with his shotgun from about , but missed. Earp returned fire over his horse using a 22-inch, 10-gauge shotgun. He killed Brocius with a load of buckshot to the stomach, nearly cutting him in half. Brocius fell into the water at the edge of the spring.\n\nThe Cowboys fired a number of shots at the Earp party, but the lawmen's fire was so intense that those Cowboys who could, left. Earp's long coat was punctured by bullets on both sides. Another bullet struck his boot heel and his saddle horn was hit, as well, burning the saddle hide and narrowly missing Wyatt. Firing his pistol, Earp shot Johnny Barnes in the chest and Milt Hicks in the arm. Vermillion tried to retrieve his rifle wedged in the scabbard under his fallen horse, exposing himself to the Cowboys' gunfire. Doc Holliday helped him gain cover. Earp had trouble remounting his horse due to a cartridge belt that had slipped down his legs. He was finally able to get on his horse and retreat. McMasters was grazed by a bullet that cut through the straps of his field glasses.\n\nEarp biographer John Flood wrote that The Cowboys buried Brocius' body on the nearby ranch of Frank Patterson near the Babocomari River. This is close to the original McLaury ranch site about 5 miles (8 km) west of Fairbank (before the McLaurys moved to the Sulphur Springs Valley in late 1880) and is believed to have originally belonged to Frank Stilwell. Brocius's grave site has never been identified.\n\nFred J. Dodge, an undercover operative for Wells Fargo in Tombstone, asked Curly Bill's associates about his death. He wrote that he talked to \"J. B. Ayers, a saloonkeeper of Charleston where the outlaws and rustlers headquartered, told me that the men who were in the fight told him that Wyatt Earp killed Curly Bill and that they took the body away that night and that they buried him on Patterson's ranch on the Babocomari.\" The Tombstone \"Nugget\" first put up a $1,000 reward for proof Curly Bill lived, and \"The Tombstone Epitaph\" countered with a $2,000 reward. Neither was ever collected. Brocius was not wanted by the law in Arizona and if he was not dead had no reason to disappear. He also was unlikely to return to Texas, where according to Wyatt Earp's recollection, he was probably still wanted for murder.\n\nBecause of his nickname, \"Curly Bill\" Brocius has been confused with \"Curly Bill\" Graham, a different outlaw of the same geographical region and time period. Graham was killed in a gunfight by Deputy Sheriff James D. Houck on October 17, 1887, and buried in Young, Arizona, and is not considered by historians to be the same Curly Bill of Charleston and Tombstone. Brocius' birth date, birth name, and birthplace are not known.\n\nIn newspapers of the time, Brocius was known alternately as \"Curly Bill\" and \"Curley Bill.\" His surname has also been spelled as \"Brocious\", although the former is the spelling used for his maildrop in Arizona Territory, according to one published letter of the time.\n\nHistorical research into Brocius' death turned up two possible earlier identities. Denis McLoughlin in \"The Encyclopedia of the Old West\" reports that Brocius was from Missouri and named William B. Graham. He said Brocius rode for various Texas cow outfits and was known in Kansas.\n\nWhile on the way to Tucson, Brocius asked Wyatt Earp to recommend an attorney. As reported in \"The Tombstone Epitaph\":\n\nWyatt looked into the story about Brocius' time in Texas and learned that Brocius had been convicted of robbery in El Paso, Texas, during which a man had been killed. Zabriskie had prosecuted Brocius for the crime, and \"he was tried and sentenced to the penitentiary, but managed to make his escape shortly after being incarcerated.\"\n\nThe \"El Paso Daily Times\" speculated that he was the man whom Texas Ranger Thomas Mode shot in the right ear.\n\nModern researchers have linked Brocius with a man known as William \"Curly Bill\" Bresnaham, who was convicted in a robbery attempt in Texas in 1878, along with another known cowboy of the Tombstone area named Robert Martin. The men were convicted and sentenced to five years in prison, but both escaped, presumably to the southwest Arizona Territory. Since both Robert Martin and Curly Bill became known as leaders of the rustlers in Arizona Territory, they are likely the same Robert Martin and Curly Bill of the Texas crime.\n\nAccording to historian Robert M. Utley, Robert Martin was a member of the Jesse Evans gang of outlaws in New Mexico during the mid- to late 1870s. Billy the Kid briefly joined this group before going to work for John Tunstall. Evans's gang, a loose-knit consortium of desperadoes known as \"The Boys\", ended up fighting against the \"Regulators\" during the Lincoln County War. Because of the time frame, the location, and his friendship with Martin, Curly Bill Brocius may have been a member of the Evans gang, as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947682", "title": "Monchy &amp; Alexandra", "text": "Monchy &amp; Alexandra\n\nMonchy & Alexandra is a bachata musical group from the Dominican Republic. They sang together as a duo beginning in 1998. Their first big hit was \"Hoja en Blanco\", which they released in 1999. Since then, they had many other hits, such as \"Hasta el Fin\" and \"Perdidos\", both from their 2004 album \"Hasta el Fin\", as well as \"No Es Una Novela\" from their 2006 \"Éxitos y Más\" album. They have been often credited with being instrumental in popularizing bachata music outside of the Dominican Republic.\n\nMonchy (real name Ramón Rijo, born 19 September 1977 in La Romana) first performed in a group in the Dominican Republic, which earned him a place in the recording of the \"Bachatazos\" series of releases.\n\nAlexandra (full name Alexandra Cabrera de la Cruz, born 19 October 1978 in Santo Domingo) was attending a university in 1998, but her studies were put on hold when the opportunity arose to audition for arranger/producer Martires De Leon and executive producer Victor Reyes, who were looking for someone to pair with Monchy. Alexandra won and began the duo that would become Monchy & Alexandra. The pair's first hit, in fact, was recorded without the two having ever met in person; Rijo recorded his vocal while the search for a female duet partner was still in progress.\n\nMonchy & Alexandra released the album \"Hoja en Blanco\" in 1999. Promotion of the album was slowed by visa problems and unauthorized cover versions. Even so, slowly, requests for the song began to flood into Miami, leading tropical radio stations WXDJ and WRTO to launch Sunday-afternoon bachata programs and to incorporate the music style into their regular programming. Miami station WXDJ even added the word \"bachata\" to its slogan. They were the first bachata act to perform on the show \"Sabado Gigante\" in April 2001, after their single \"Hoja en Blanco\" began to finally climb the Billboard charts in the US. Cabrera credited their success in part to their early singles' roots in the vallenato genre, noting that \"vallenato\" lyrics traditionally are \"sweeter [and] more romantic\" in contrast to the traditionally bitter lyrics favored in the male-dominated bachata scene. \n\nAccording to Monchy, the duo waited two years before releasing their next album in order to \"put out something superior to Hoja en Blanco\". Label executives from J&N worked to improve the odds for commercial success for the second album. Their marketing efforts included a $300,000 national TV advertising campaign for Puerto Rico and the U.S. (consisting of 30 and 60 second spots) and a $17,000 video filmed in Miami. This marketing campaign was the first such for a bachata group; prior to that all marketing had concentrated on compilation albums. The album was released on March 5, 2002. The album's lead single \"Te Quiero Igual que Ayer\" was written by the same composer, Wilfran Castillo, that penned \"Hoja en Blanco.\" The song peaked at number 23 on Billboard's Hot Latin Tracks, and reached number four on Billboard's Tropical/Salsa Airplay chart.\n\nIn 2005, the duo performed with Salvadoran singer Álvaro Torres, \"He Venido A Pedirte Perdón\", on an album contributing to Mexican singer, Juan Gabriel.\n\nMonchy & Alexandra have been recognized by some of the most prestigious organizations of the Hispanic music business. They have been nominated for the Billboard Latin Music Awards, Premios Cassandra, Premios Lo Nuestro and a Latin Grammy. The duo has achieved a large amount of success in a relatively short amount of time.\n\nIn 2003, the duo received its first major awards, \"Tropical Album of the Year, Duo or Group\" (for \"Confesiones\") and \"Tropical Airplay Song of the Year, Duo or Group\" (for \"Te Quiero Igual Que Ayer\") from the Billboard Latin Music Awards. The pair also won the Tropical Album of the Year award for \"Éxitos y Más\" (\"Hits and More\") and the Tropical Song of the Year prize for \"No Es Una Novela\" (It's Not a \"Novela\") at the 2007 Premios Lo Nuestro ceremony.\n\nOn September 15, 2008 Monchy announced that the group would be breaking up. He attributed the decision to split solely to Alexandra saying \"The decision was Alexandra's. I still don't know the reasons why, only that when I was informed about this, the reasons were not explained to me and this occurred while we were on a European tour, in Milan, Italy.\" Monchy disputed rumors that the split was over money.\n\nIn 2019 the duo reunited to collaborate on a track called Años luz with\nRomeo Santos. It is unknown if the group plans to stay together for future projects.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947686", "title": "Harmonica gun", "text": "Harmonica gun\n\nA harmonica gun or slide gun is a form of firearm which was breech loaded with a steel slide, containing a number of chambers bored in it and which were filled with projectiles. Most harmonica guns are percussion cap guns, although some designs exist for compressed air guns and some examples were made in pinfire cartridge form. In percussion cap guns, each chamber contains a separate primer, powder charge, and projectile. The slide was inserted in an opening in the breech action and could be advanced by releasing the camlock, moving the slide by hand. The gun comes in both pistol and rifle models, as well as single-action and double-action.\n\nThe earliest example of a harmonica gun is probably the one by the Swiss inventor Welten constructed in 1742.\n\nAccording to Clive Scott Chisholm in \"Following the Wrong God Home: Footloose in an American Dream\" and Louis A Garavaglia & Charles G. Worman in \"Firearms of the American West: 1803-1865\" the slide gun was independently invented by a Mormon gunsmith called Nicanor Kendall in 1838 and it was from this gunsmith that Browning got the idea for his own harmonica guns when he moved to the area in which Kendall was living in around 1840.\n\nThe most famous maker of harmonica guns was Jonathan Browning, father of John Moses Browning. Commencing in 1834 in Quincy, Illinois, he began to make harmonica guns and more conventional revolving rifles. He continued to improve on the principle after he became a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and emigrated to Nauvoo, Illinois, and finally Ogden, Utah.\n\nIn 1837 a percussion cap harmonica gun was patented by Elijah Fisher and Dexter H. Chamberlain.\n\nIn 1854 a pump action harmonica gun was patented by Alexander Bain.\n\nA crank-operated harmonica gun was patented in 1856 by C G Terrel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947697", "title": "Cadet (dinghy)", "text": "Cadet (dinghy)\n\nThe Cadet is a class of sailing dinghy designed to be sailed by two children up to the age of 17. It is a one-design class, originally designed by Jack Holt in 1947. Cadets are sailed worldwide in more than 40 countries.\n\nIn 1947, \"Yachting World\" organised a design competition for a beginners' sailing dinghy that the current Cadet-design won.\n\nThe boat is crewed by two people and sails with a bermuda rigged mainsail, jib and spinnaker. The Cadet is the only recognised two persons youth-boat by World Sailing (formerly ISAF) as an International Competitive Youth Sailing Class since 1958. Over 10,000 Cadets have been built worldwide by registered licensed builders on four continents. The Cadet is sailed internationally throughout Europe, Asia, Australia and South America. Originally made of wood, the majority of the international fleet is now constructed of fibreglass. The strongest fleets are currently situated in the Ukraine, Poland, Belgium, Australia and Argentina. Argentine sailors won 14 world championships in the 20-year period between 1991 and 2010. The Cadet is 3.2 metres long, 1.38 m wide, and weighs 54 kilograms. With the centerboard up, the hull draft is 16 cm; the mast is deck-stepped and 5.22 m high, the mainsail area is 3.9 m, the jib 1.26 m and the spinnaker 4.25 m. The side decks are designed so that a capsize normally does not fill the hull with water. In a mixed fleet, the Cadet has a Portsmouth Yardstick handicap of 1428, the second-slowest in the PY scheme.\n\nThe class most important competition is the Cadet World Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947698", "title": "Argentine, Kansas", "text": "Argentine, Kansas\n\nArgentine is a community of Kansas City, Kansas, located in the southern part of Wyandotte County. It is bordered on the west by the Turner community, on the east by the Rosedale community, on the south by Johnson County, and on the north by Armourdale community and by the Kansas River.\n\nArgentine was primarily recognized for the prosperous silver smeltery for which it was named. Built on the site of a former Shawnee reservation, the proximity of the railroad, local lumber sources, the smeltery, and in later years, steel manufacturing, meant that the city enjoyed a considerable amount of economic success for quite some time.\n\nWhen the smeltery finally closed, the city found itself in the throes of an unprecedented financial crisis and began to seek entry to nearby Kansas City in 1907. Although the community was annexed and became the seventh ward of Kansas City, KS in 1910, the neighborhood retains its own distinct flavor and personality.\n\nProminent nearby landmarks include Argentine Carnegie Library (the last Carnegie library in the Kansas City metropolitan area), the grave of Tecumseh's brother, the Shawnee prophet Tensquatawa at White Feather Spring, Sauer Castle at 945 Shawnee Road, and the Argentine mural located at 30th Street and Metropolitan Avenue. \n\nThe neighborhood is the location of one of three rail yards on the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad, the Argentine Yard.\n\nIt is in the Kansas City, Kansas School District. Its local high school is J. C. Harmon High School, which opened in 1973 as the fusion of Argentine Senior High School and Rosedale Senior High School. The neighborhood has its own middle school, Argentine Middle School.\n\nKansas City, Kansas Public Library currently operates the South Branch Library in Argentine, with of space. The name was chosen to reflect that it serves the entire southern region of the city and not a single neighborhood.\n\nIt formerly operated the Argentine Carnegie Library which opened in 1911 in a storefront and received its own Carnegie building in 1917. By 1998 it, on the National Register of Historic Places, was the sole remaining Carnegie library in the city. In 2012 the current South Branch opened, and it cost $6 million, with a third of it made in fundraisers by local residents. The school district agreed to pay for the rest if residents raised $1.5 million to $2 million. A church was demolished to make way for the current library, and the school district took possession of the former library.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947706", "title": "Langerfeld", "text": "Langerfeld\n\nLangerfeld is a borough of the German city of Wuppertal.\n\nOn 24 June 2018, an explosion in the area damaged an apartment complex and surroundings. The blast was powerful and destroyed the three top floors of the block, and also destroying a parked car. The impact caused fires inside the building. Twenty-five people were injured, five of them seriously. The explosion's cause is unknown and still under investigation.\n"}
{"id": "1947707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947707", "title": "Grabowiec, Toruń County", "text": "Grabowiec, Toruń County\n\nGrabowiec (German \"Grabowitz\", 1939-1945 \"Hainbusch\") is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Lubicz, within Toruń County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland. It lies approximately south-east of Toruń. The village has a population of 570.\n\nIn April 2005, one of its streets was named \"Ulica Obi-Wana Kenobiego\" (Obi-Wan Kenobi Street) after the famous Jedi knight from \"Star Wars\" movies.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1947708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947708", "title": "Live at the Apollo (1963 album)", "text": "Live at the Apollo (1963 album)\n\nLive at the Apollo is a live album by James Brown and the Famous Flames, recorded at the Apollo Theater in Harlem and released in 1963.\n\nThe album is included in Robert Christgau's \"Basic Record Library\" of 1950s and 1960s recordings, published in \"\" (1981). In 2000 it was voted number 248 in Colin Larkin's \"All Time Top 1000 Albums\". In 2003, the album was ranked number 25 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's list of The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time, maintaining the rating in a 2012 revised list. In 2004, it was one of 50 recordings chosen that year by the Library of Congress to be added to the National Recording Registry.\nIn 1998, this album was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame \n\n\"Live at the Apollo\" was recorded on the night of October 24, 1962 at Brown's own expense. Although not credited on the album cover or label, Brown's vocal group, The Famous Flames (Bobby Byrd, Bobby Bennett, and Lloyd Stallworth), played an important co-starring role in \"Live at the Apollo\", and are included with Brown by M.C. Fats Gonder in the album's intro. Brown's record label, King Records, originally opposed releasing the album, believing that a live album featuring no new songs would not be profitable. The label finally relented under pressure from Brown and his manager Bud Hobgood.\n\nTo King's surprise, \"Live at the Apollo\" was an amazingly rapid seller. It spent 66 weeks on the Billboard Top Pop Albums chart, peaking at #2. Many record stores, especially in the southeast US, found themselves unable to keep up with the demand for the product, eventually ordering several cases at a time. R&B disc jockeys often would play side 1 in its entirety, pausing (usually to insert commercials) only to return to play side 2 in full as well. The side break occurred in the middle of the long track \"Lost Someone\".\n\nIn a retrospective article for \"Rolling Stone\", music critic Robert Christgau said that Brown was a \"striking but more conventional performer\" in the show than on his contemporary studio recordings and wrote of the album:\n\nBrown went on to record several more albums at the Apollo throughout his career, including 1968's \"Live at the Apollo, Vol. II\" (King), 1971's \"\" (Polydor), and \"Live at the Apollo 1995\" (Scotti Bros.).\n\nMC5 guitarist Wayne Kramer cited \"Live at the Apollo\" as the inspiration to \"Kick Out the Jams\" \"Our whole thing was based on James Brown. We listened to \"Live at the Apollo\" endlessly on acid. We would listen to that in the van in the early days of 8-tracks on the way to the gigs to get us up for the gig. If you played in a band in Detroit in the days before The MC5, everybody did 'Please, Please, Please' and 'I Go Crazy.' These were standards. We modeled The MC5's performance on those records. Everything we did was on a gut level about sweat and energy. It was anti-refinement. That's what we were consciously going for.\"\n\nDespite its renowned and historical significance, \"Live at the Apollo\" was not reissued on CD until 1990 because the original master recordings had been misplaced and the available copies were not of a high enough quality for a satisfactory CD release. \nThe master tapes were recovered in late 1989. As Harry Weinger writes in the booklet of the reissued Deluxe Edition (featuring remastered sound and several alternate mixes) in 2004: \"Finding the primary master, not the readily available copy, became a mission. It was tough to find, since the original LP didn't index individual tracks, meaning its song titles would not be properly listed in a database. The tape vault was 100,000 reels strong, and growing. As JB would say \"Good gawd\". I shared this tale of woe with Phil Schaap, the noted jazz historian. One day, Philip was searching the vault for a Max Roach tape, his hand landed on what he thought was Max's master. Pulling the tape off the shelf, he realized he had instead an anonymous-looking audiotape box that said: 'Second Show James Brown'. It was initialed, in grease pencil, 'GR-CLS-King Records' Gene Redd and Chuck L. Speitz. Phil handed it to me, saying with urgent economy, \"'I think you need to hear this.\"\"\n\n\"The track listing is as it appears on the 2004 remaster. The original 1962 issue of the album is unindexed.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947711", "title": "Groove Terminator", "text": "Groove Terminator\n\nSimon Lewicki, also known as Groove Terminator, is an Australian electronic music artist.\n\nOriginally a hip-hop DJ, he eventually began spinning house music. He was featured in the 2000 Australian edition of Ministry of Sound's Club Nation series, as well as several other Ministry of Sound compilations. His song 'Here Comes Another One' became the theme of the popular Australian (and worldwide) reality TV-show 'The Block' and had featured previously in the cult spoof-slasher film, \"Cut\" (1999). \n\nLewicki's parents founded the first community radio station in Adelaide and his mother was a radio presenter. Simon's DJing began with the casual production of mix-tapes on the weekends as a youth. He was a fan of punk rock prior to discovering electronic and dance music. The first concert Lewicki attended as a child (aged eight) was The Ramones at Thebarton Theatre in Adelaide, South Australia.\n\nLewicki first performed as a scratch turntablist in the Adelaide-based hip hop duo, \"Major Rhyme Squad\". \n\nIn the early 1990s he was part of the Adelaide hip-hop group \"Finger Lickin' Good\" alongside DJ Madcap and Quro. Their sole release was a 1993 vinyl EP release called \"Illegitimate Sons of the Bastard Funk\".\n\nHe played his first DJ sets in the 1980s and as his taste diversified, began releasing music in the early 1990s. He released two solo albums in 2000 and 2001, published by Virgin Records. To promote his first album \"Road Kill\", Groove Terminator toured with the rock band, Grinspoon. He is also credited with breaking electronic and dance music into regional venues around Australia with fellow DJs Nick Skitz and Bexta. \n\nFrom late 2004, Lewicki's song \"How Life Should Be\" featured in a series of television commercials for Progressive Insurance and the Sci-Fi channel's Stargate series.\n\nCirca 2005, Lewicki relocated to Los Angeles where he carried on his production and DJ work.\n\nHe is also in several other bands; one being \"Tonite Only\" with Sam La More which was launched in 2006 and is signed to Hussle Black, a sub-label of Ministry of Sound. In 2009, Lewicki started the electronic rock duo Jump Jump Dance Dance with singer/guitarist Chris Carter, also known as DJ Snakepanther . Their eponymous debut album was released in July 2011.\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, Groove Terminator toured with \"Ministry of Sound: Orchestrated\", which brought a set of house, rave and club classics arranged for orchestral performance to major venues around Australia.\n\nLewicki is co-creator of the music festival \"Block Rocking Beats\", which premieres at McLaren Vale, South Australia in December 2019.\n\n\n\n\nJump Jump Dance Dance (2011)\n\n\nSingles\n\n"}
{"id": "1947712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947712", "title": "Peter Potamus", "text": "Peter Potamus\n\nPeter Potamus is a purple animated hippopotamus that first appeared in the 1964-1966 animated television series The Peter Potamus Show, produced by Hanna-Barbera and first broadcast on September 16, 1964.\n\n\"The Peter Potamus Show\" was divided into three segments: \"Peter Potamus and So-So\", \"Breezly and Sneezly\" and \"Yippee, Yappee and Yahooey\". \"Peter Potamus\" was a companion series to \"The Magilla Gorilla Show\" and both series premiered in first-run syndication before being picked up by ABC in January 1966. At that time, the \"Breezly and Sneezly\" segment was swapped with \"Ricochet Rabbit & Droop-a-Long\", a segment on \"The Magilla Gorilla Show\". After the ABC run ended in 1967, cartoons from \"Magilla Gorilla\" and \"Peter Potamus\" shows were syndicated together.\n\nThe Ideal toy company was the sponsor of the television series, and during the original run of the cartoon, the closing song ended with the phrase: \"And there he goes Peter Potamus, our ideal\". A similarly subtle sponsor reference appeared in the \"Magilla Gorilla\" theme song lyrics: \"He's really ideal\".\n\nThe original \"Peter Potamus\" series used to be seen on the cable TV channel Boomerang, often as part of its anthology series \"Boomerang Zoo\".\n\nEarly promotional materials for the series carried the title \"Peter Potamus and His Magic Flying Balloon\", but that title never appeared on screen.\n\nThe main segment featured Peter Potamus (voiced by Daws Butler impersonating Joe E. Brown; Butler used an identical voice for Lippy the Lion) and his diminutive sidekick So-So the monkey (voiced by Don Messick). Peter is big, purple, and friendly, dressed in a safari jacket and hat. Episodes generally consisted of Peter and So-So exploring the world in his hot air balloon, which was capable of time travel at the spin of a dial. When faced with a precarious situation, Peter uses his Hippo Hurricane Holler to blow away his opponents.\n\nA polar bear named Breezly Bruin (voiced by Howard Morris) and his friend Sneezly the Seal (voiced by Mel Blanc) use various schemes to break into an army camp in the frozen north, while trying to stay one step ahead of the camp's leader Colonel Fuzzby (voiced by John Stephenson).\n\nThree dogs named Yippee (voiced by Doug Young), Yappee (voiced by Hal Smith), and Yahooey (voiced by Daws Butler) aka The Goofy Guards, work for the King (voiced by Hal Smith), a short, complaining ruler who is often on the receiving end of their antics. The trio's plumed hats and swords are reminiscent of The Three Musketeers.\n\n\nThe episode \"Fe Fi Fo Fun\" is available on the DVD \"Saturday Morning Cartoons 1960s Vol. 1\". The episode \"Wagon Train Strain\" is available on the \"Saturday Morning Cartoons 1960's Vol. 2\" set. The episode \"Cleo Trio\" is on the \"Hanna Barbera 25 Cartoon Collection\" DVD, part of \"The Best of Warner Bros.\" series.\n\nOn November 1, 2016, Warner Archive released \"The Peter Potamus Show- The Complete Series\" on DVD in region 1 as part of their Hanna–Barbera Classics Collection. This is a Manufacture-on-Demand (MOD) release, available exclusively through Warner's online store and Amazon.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947713", "title": "Germán Valdés", "text": "Germán Valdés\n\nGermán Genaro Cipriano Gómez Valdés de Castillo (19 September 1915 – 29 June 1973), better known as Tin-Tan, was a Mexican actor, singer and comedian who was born in Mexico City but was raised and began his career in Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua. He often displayed the pachuco dress and employed pachuco slang in many of his movies, some with his brothers Manuel \"El Loco\" Valdés and Ramón Valdés. He made the language of the Mexican American pachucos famous in Mexico. A \"caló\" based in Spanglish, it was a mixture of Spanish and English in speech based on that of Mexican immigrants.\n\nTin Tan began his career by calling himself \"Topillo\" (slang for the trickster), which a friend of his stated sounded too vulgar and uncouth for a comedian. He suggested instead the nickname Tin Tan (based on the phonetic sound of bells ringing), which Tin Tan originally disliked but grew to like and use professionally for his whole career.\n\nHis movie career came as a complete surprise to everyone. He used to work as a sweeper for the XEJ station in Ciudad Juarez, when he decided to try and mimic the Radio Announcers for fun. Unbeknownst to him, the actual announcer had left the microphone on. His quick wit and funny personality garnered him acclaim and he was quickly promoted to the main radio announcer himself. It was under these circumstances that legendary ventriloquist Paco Miller contacted him to act in films, and his career began.\n\nHe usually acted alongside his \"carnal\" (blood brother), Marcelo Chávez, who also accompanied Tin-Tan with a guitar. He was a prominent figure during his golden years of movie making, from 1949 onward. His 1948 movie, \"Calabacitas tiernas\", a comedy, was chosen as one of the best in Mexican cinema .\n\nHe has the record of having kissed the most actresses in his career , some of them the beauties of their day. Some of his co-stars were Marga López, Rosita Quintana, Silvia Pinal, Amalia Aguilar, Meche Barba, Ana Bertha Lepe, María Antonieta Pons, Tongolele and many more. He also collaborated closely with actress and comedian Fannie Kauffman, who was also known as Vitola, during their careers.\n\nHe was also one of several people who were originally intended to be on the front cover of The Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" but declined the invitation. He requested that Ringo swap him for a Mexican Tree known as \"El Arbol de la Vida\", the Tree of Life, and he did. \n\nHe was the voice of Baloo the bear and Thomas O'Malley the cat in the Mexican Spanish dubbing of the Disney films \"The Jungle Book\" and \"The Aristocats\"; both roles were originally voiced by Phil Harris.\n\nTin-Tan was the subject of the 2005 documentary, \"Ni Muy Muy… Ni Tan Tan… Simplemente Tin Tán\", by Manuel Márquez and Carlos Valdés, son of the comedian.\n\nHe became ill with hepatitis, which degenerated into cancer. He then fell into a hepatic coma and died.\n\nWhen he died he did not leave a fortune, just a testament to his wife Rosalía and his children Rosalía and Carlos.\n\nHe left behind a legacy of over 100 movies, 11 records, two short films, and three Walt Disney dubs (\"Jungle Book\", \"The Aristocats\", and \"The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad\").\n\nThe only recognition he received was the \"Medalla Virginia Fábregas\"(Virginia Fábregas Medal), a medal given for 25 years of professional service by the \"Asociación de Actores de México\" (Association of Actors of México).\n\nAn illustration of codeswitching word play: \"Hey Vato, how do you say \"window\" in English?\" (window appears verbatim in the original quote in Spanish).\n\nOn 19 September 2019, the 104th anniversary of his birth, he was honored with a Google Doodle that reached Central America, Iceland, Italy and Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947716", "title": "Star Time", "text": "Star Time\n\nStar Time is a 1991 71-track, 4-CD box set by James Brown. Its contents span most of the length of his career up to the time of its release, starting in 1956 with his first hit record, \"Please, Please, Please\", and ending with \"Unity\", his 1984 collaboration with Afrika Bambaataa. Writing in 2007, Robert Christgau described it as \"the finest box set ever released... as essential a package as the biz has ever hawked, not just because it's James Brown, but because compilers Cliff White and Harry Weinger invested so much care and knowledge in it.\" Its title comes from the question Brown's announcer would ask concert audiences, as heard on the album \"Live at the Apollo\": \"Are you ready for star time?\"\n\n\"Star Time\"'s liner notes, written by Cliff White, Harry Weinger, Nelson George, Alan Leeds, and Brown himself, won a 1991 Grammy Award for Best Album Notes. The notes also include a discography and a one-page comic by Mary Fleener, a visual interpretation of the song \"I Got You (I Feel Good).\"\n\nIn 2003, the album was ranked number 79 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. It was the second-highest ranking box set on the list. In 2012, the rank moved up to 75.\n\n\nTrack 9 published under the James Brown pseudonym of Dessie Rozier. Tracks 17-21 & 23 are published under the James Brown pseudonym of Ted Wright.\n\nTracks 1-7, 10, 12, 15, and 21 recorded with The Famous Flames\n\n\n\n\nAt the time of its release \"Star Time\" was the most comprehensive collection of James Brown's recordings ever issued. A series of Polydor compilations released in the 1990s expanded on \"Star Time\" by including additional songs, alternate takes, previously unreleased recordings, and longer, unedited versions of key tracks:\n\n\nTwo other Polydor collections similarly anthologize Brown's instrumental recordings:\n\n\nIn 1992, Scotti Brothers Records released \"The Greatest Hits of the Fourth Decade\", a compilation of Brown's charting songs from the 1980s which were left off of \"Star Time\". The album's cover art was modelled on \"Star Time\"'s.\n\nIn 2006, Hip-O Select Records began a multi-volume reissue of James Brown's complete singles (both A-sides and B-sides) on CD. The volumes are only available through mail order. , eleven volumes have been released, covering the periods 1956-1960, 1960-1963, 1964-1965, 1966-1967, 1967-1969, 1969-1970, 1970-1972, 1972-1973, 1973-1975, 1975-1979 and 1979-1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947717", "title": "Zantedeschia", "text": "Zantedeschia\n\nZantedeschia is a genus of eight species of herbaceous, perennial, flowering plants in the family Araceae, native to southern Africa from South Africa north to Malawi. The genus has been introduced on all continents except Antarctica. Common names include arum lily for \"Z. aethiopica\" and calla and calla lily for \"Z. elliottiana\" and \"Z. rehmannii\", although members of the genus are neither true lilies of Liliaceae, true \"Arums\", nor true \"Callas\" (related genera in Araceae). The colourful flowers and leaves of both species and cultivars are greatly valued and commonly grown as ornamental plants.\n\n\"Zantedeschia\" species are rhizomatous, herbaceous, perennial plants with some species, e. g., \"Zantedeschia aethiopica\", growing to 1.2m tall, while \"Zantedeschia rehmannii\" does not exceed 60 cm in height, growing in clumps or clusters.<br>\nRoots: Contractile, emerging from the top of the tubers in Group II.<br>\nStem: The underground portion is variously described as a thick underground stem, i. e., a rhizome or tuber. While the literature is confusing as to the exact terminology, generally the \"Zantedeschia aethiopica\"-\"Zantedeschia odorata\" group (Group I) is considered to have rhizomes and the remaining species tubers. The rhizomes are fleshy and branched. <br>\nLeaves: Petioles are long, spongy, sheathed at the bases, and of varying lengths, from 15 cm (\"Zantedeschia rehmannii\") to 1.5 m (\"Zantedeschia aethiopica\"). The lamina is simple, elongated, and coriaceous with a variety of shapes, including triangular, oval (ovate), with or without a point (elliptic), heart-shaped (cordate), spear-shaped (hastate), lance-shaped (lanceolate), oblong, or circular (orbicular). 15–60 cm in length, 5–25 cm in width. The leaves are dark green in colour, feather-veined (pinnate), and may be erect or spreading with undulate margins. Some species exhibit transparent flecking (maculation), and are therefore described as maculate, while others are immaculate. (see Table I, also New Zealand Calla Council Leaf Shape Images) The leaves contain hydathodes that result in guttation.\n\nInflorescence: Takes the form of a solitary pseudanthium (false flower), with a showy white or yellow spathe (a specialised petal like bract) shaped like a funnel with a yellow, central, finger-like spadix, which carries the true flowers. Both spathe and spadix are carried on or above the leaves on the fleshy flower stem. The shape of the spathe whose overlapping margins form the tubes varies from trumpet shaped (\"Z. pentlandii\") to a tight tube with a tapering tip (\"Z. rehmannii\"). The spathe is initially green, but as it unfolds becomes coloured. This may be white as in \"Z. aethiopica\", but other species include yellow and pink. Cultivars have a wide variety of other spathe colours including orange and purple. Inside the spathe, the throat may be darkly coloured. The spathe acts to attract pollinators.<br>\nFlowers: \"Zantedeschia\" is monoecious, in which separate male (staminate) and female (pistillate) flowers (\"imperfect\" or \"unisexual\" flowers) are carried on the spadix. The flowers are small and non-blooming without a perianth. The male flowers contain two to three stamens fused to form a synandrium, and the female flowers have a single, compound pistil with three fused carpels and three locules.\nFruit: Beaked orange or red berries.\n\nEight species are currently recognized:\n\n\nThe name of the genus was given as a tribute to Italian botanist Giovanni Zantedeschi (1773–1846) by the German botanist Kurt Sprengel (1766–1833).\n\nAll species are endemic to central and southern Africa, from Nigeria to Tanzania and South Africa. \"Z. aethiopica\" grows naturally in marshy areas and is only deciduous when water becomes scarce. It grows continuously when watered and fed regularly and can survive periods of minor frosts. \"Z. aethiopica\" is a very strong and sturdy plant, being able to grow in many soils and habitats, multiplying by rhizome-offsets; it is naturalised and regarded as a weed throughout much of the world. \"Z. odorata\" is a rare species, resembling \"Z. aethiopica\", but deciduous and smelling like freesia, endemic to a few localities in South Africa. \"Z. albomaculata\" is a widespread and variable species, growing from South Africa north to Kenya, varying in shades of white to cream and pink to orange-shades. \"Z. jucunda\" and \"Z. pentlandii\" are rare species with large yellow showy flowers. \"Z. rehmannii\" is a pink-flowered species with sword shaped leaves. \"Z. elliotiana\" is known from horticultural sources only and is probably of hybrid origin.\n\n\"Zantedeschia\" was introduced to Europe in the seventeenth century as \"Z. aethiopica\", and is now widely naturalised in Europe, North America, Central America, South America, Oceania, and Australasia. In many places it is considered a dangerous invasive species that displaces native vegetation. In the South-West of Western Australia, \"Z. aethiopica\" was introduced for horticulture, but has become a widespread and conspicuous weed of watercourses, heath, and wet pastures to the extent that it has been declared a pest in Western Australia and landowners must control it and attempts to sell plants must be reported. \"Zantedeschia\" in North America is primarily grown as ornamental cultivars in home gardens.\n\n\"Z. aethiopica\" grows naturally in marshy areas and is only deciduous when water becomes scarce. It grows continuously when watered and fed regularly and can survive periods of minor frosts. \"Z. aethiopica\" is a very strong and sturdy plant, being able to grow in many soils and habitats, multiplying by rhizome-offsets.\n\nAll \"Zantedeschia\" produce large, showy flowers spathes and are often grown both as ornamental plants and for cut flowers. \"Zantedeschia\" are relatively hardy plants, but some are more winter-hardy than others. In this regard there may be considered two groups, a hardy outdoor group with large white flowers (arum lilies) and less hardy group with white-spotted leaves and flowers in many colours (calla lilies), such as yellow, orange, pink and purple.\nThese include \"Zantedeschia aethiopica\" and \"Zantedeschia pentlandii\" and their cultivars. \"Zantedeschia aethiopica\" and some of its relatives can survive at minimum winter temperatures below -23 °C (USDA Zone 6) and many others can be grown in even warmer areas where all the ground does not freeze (USDA Zone 7). \"Z. pentlandii\" hybrids include 'Millennium Gold'.\n\nThe more tender specimens are mainly cultivars (hybrids) of \"Zantedeschia elliotiana\" and \"Zantedeschia rehmannii\" (referred to as elliotiana or rehmannii cultivars or hybrids, or as e.g. \"Z. x rehmanii\"), but also \"Zantedeschia albomaculata\" and \"Zantedeschia jucunda.\". These less hardy forms can only survive winter temperatures to -12 °C (Zones 8). This plant must be grown as tender bulbs or houseplants in cooler areas. Species and hybrids between \"Z. elliotiana\", \"Z. jucunda\", \"Z. pentlandii\" and \"Z. rehmannii\" appear to have an optimum temperature for growth near 25 °C, with growth being suppressed once daily average temperatures persist at 28 °C.\n\n\"Z. rehmannii\" hybrids include 'Amethyst'., 'Crystal Blush'. and 'Neon Amour', while an example of a \"Z. elliotiana x Z. rehmannii\" hybrid would be 'Blaze'. \"Z. elliotiana x Z. maculata\" hybrids include 'Lemon Drop'. \"Z. elliotiana\" hybrids include 'Solar Flare'.\n\nOther classifications consider two groups based on their seasonal habits. \"Zantedeschia aethiopica\" and \"Zantedeschia odorata\" form one group (Group I) typified by retaining their leaves in winter, and flowering from late winter to late spring, while the remaining species (Group II) are in leaf from spring to late autumn shedding their leaves in winter (deciduous) and flower during the summer. \"Zantedeschia aethiopica\" may retain its leaves all year round (evergreen), otherwise from autumn to late summer, while \"Zantedeschia odorata\" retains its leaves from late winter to late spring. The two groups also vary according to the arrangement of the male and female organs. In the first group they are arranged together in the lower part of the spadix, whereas in the latter they are separate, with the female at the base. The \"Z. aethiopica\" group also have a fruit that turns soft and orange, whereas the other retains a firm green fruit.\n\n\"Zantedeschia\" shares the general properties of the family Araceae in causing contact irritation. \"Zantedeschia\" species are also poisonous due to the presence of calcium oxalate crystals in the form of raphides. All parts of the plant are poisonous, typically producing local irritation or a burning sensation in the mouth and occasionally vomiting and diarrhea. However leaves are sometimes cooked and eaten.\n\nExtensive commercial production of Zantedeschia for cut flowers and/or planting material occurs in California, Colombia, New Zealand and Kenya. Plant breeders in California and New Zealand continue to produce an extensive range of new hybrid cultivars. The so-called white calla is derived from \"Z. aethiopica\". All varieties with flowers with shades of yellow, orange, red, purple are mainly derived from \"Z. albomaculata\", \"Z. pentlandii\", \"Z. elliottiana\" and \"Z. rehmanni\".\n\nZantedeschia has often been used in paintings, and is visible in many of Diego Rivera's works of art (see The Flower Vendor, amongst others). It was a favourite subject of the painter Georgia O'Keeffe.\n\nDuring the flower language boom in the Victorian period of the 19th century, there were strict social codes and if one had to express ones feelings, flowers were the best medium. Flowers delivered the feelings subtly and every part of gifting a flower, carried secret flower meanings. The person who made the offer to the way the flowers were arranged, all had a specific meaning. Thus passionate messages were delivered to the recipient, without the use of words through flowers. During this time, calla lily was used to express many such hidden symbols. Due to its physical resemblance to female genitalia, calla lily was called an overtly sexual one. This sexual calla lily meaning was brought forward to admirers by Freud and other artists like Georgia O'Keeffe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947722", "title": "Keki Hormusji Gharda", "text": "Keki Hormusji Gharda\n\nDr Keki Hormusji Gharda (born 25 September 1929) is a prominent Indian chemical engineer, chemist and entrepreneur. He is the founder, chairman and managing director of Gharda Chemicals Limited, a R&D-based company with business interests in agrochemicals, polymers, and high performance pigments. He was honoured by the Government of India with the award of Padma Shri in 2016.\n\nGharda attended St. Stanislaus High School, in Bandra, Bombay. He acquired Bachelor of Science, and Bachelor of Technology Degree from University Department of Chemical Technology at the University of Bombay (now the Institute of Chemical Technology). He then obtained both a master's degree and PhD in Chemical Engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor in 1952 and 1959, respectively.\n\nGharda began his career as an Assistant Professor, Process Design & Chemical Engineering at the University of Oklahoma. During this time he was granted his first two patents for projects he undertook for an oil company.\n\nUpon his return to India, Gharda briefly taught as a visiting faculty member at UDCT and then established Gharda Chemicals. His strategy of producing off-patent at extremely cheap prices led to successful start for the company. His move into agrochemicals was a result of being invited to be an observer of an investigation by the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission into an alleged monopolistic product. However, his foray in bulk drug production was not successful.\n\nAmong his many awards, Gharda was elected to be a Fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences in 1976 in the field of Process Design. Other awards include the Distinguished Alumnus award by the UDCT and the Indian Chemical Councils Lifetime Achievement Award. For his contribution to chemistry and chemical engineering, Gharda is a recipient of the American Institute of Chemists's 'Chemical Pioneer' award. He also got the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce And Industry (FICCI) Award For Research And Technology for the Development And Commercialisation of Poly Ether Ether Ketone (PEEK).\n\nGharda Chemicals Limited, established in 1967, is a research and development company manufacturing agrochemicals, high performance pigments, and high performance polymers. It has five manufacturing units located across the country at Dombivli in Mumbai, Lote Parshuram in Chiplun (Maharashtra), Panoli & Ankaleshwar in Gujarat and Samba in Jammu.\n\nInnovation through research and development has seen the company rise from a rented shed in 1964 to a leadership position in the agrochemical industry. Expertise in process development has enabled the company to capitalise on superior technology and discovery of world-class processes. This has led to the production of vital import-substitute products and cost effective agrochemicals on a large scale and consequently to a strong, competitive national and international presence.\n\nGharda is married to Aban, who was a graduate of St. Xavier's College and also earned a PhD from the University of Mumbai. She passed away 2017. He is an avid reader and has promoted Bai Ratnabai Gharda Library in Bandra, Mumbai. Gharda has said that he follows a frugal lifestyle.\n\nGharda is also known for his philanthropic contributions. He has promoted the Gharda Scientific Research Foundation, a non-profit limited-liability company, dedicated to develop and research basic technologies. The aim is to use the earnings of this foundation to promote more technologies and will also contributing to the upliftment of society in the areas of health and education.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947723", "title": "John Wood (governor)", "text": "John Wood (governor)\n\nJohn Wood (December 20, 1798 – June 4, 1880) was the 12th Governor of Illinois, serving from March 18, 1860, to January 14, 1861. Wood was a founder and the first settler of Quincy, Illinois.\n\nWood was born on December 20, 1798, in Sempronius, New York, in the area now known as Moravia. He was the second child and son of Dr. Daniel and Catherine Crause Wood. His mother became estranged from the family when John Wood was five and moved to Palatine, New York. Wood was sent to live with his older cousin, James, and his wife, Mary Armstrong Wood, in Florida, New York.\n\nIn the vanguard of adventurous young eastern emigrants, Wood on November 2, 1818, left his New York home. He initially planned to farm in Northern Alabama. In Cincinnati during the winter of 1818-1819, however, he gained access to two books by Edmund Dana, published in Cincinnati in 1818. A resident and surveyor in the Illinois Military Tract, land set aside by Congress as bounty for veterans of the War of 1812, Dana provided the lure that changed Wood's destination. Dana's books extolled the significant advantages of a promontory over the Mississippi River at Illinois' westernmost point. Wood moved west to land near Atlas in Pike County, Illinois, squatted (resided on land he did not own), and became a farmer. Here, Wood met land speculator Peter Flinn, from whom he bought of land in the 3.5-million-acre Illinois Military Tract. Wood moved to his newly acquired land and with Jeremiah Rose in 1822 built a small, one-room log cabin on the east bank of the Mississippi River at today's Quincy, Illinois. Rose, his wife, and their five-year-old daughter lived with Wood in the cabin until 1826, when Wood married Ann M. Streeter of Salem, New York, daughter of Justice of the Peace Joshua Streeter.\n\nIntending to speculate in land in the Military Tract, Wood had arrived at the federal land office in Edwardsville, Illinois, where he met Willard Keyes, a Vermont native. Keyes had taught French and Indian children at Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin, for two years and become disenchanted with his profession and disappointed that he had accumulated nothing. Learning Wood had the same idea about speculating in land, Keyes formed an informal partnership with Wood. They journeyed to the site on the Mississippi that had attracted Wood west. It was a limestone bluff that rose nearly 100 feet above the river, at which the pair would found Quincy, Illinois.\n\nAt the land office, Wood also met Edward Coles, who would become Illinois' second governor in 1822. Appointed the federal land registrar by President James Monroe, Virginian Coles had released his eleven slaves while on the way to Illinois to take his post. As governor, Coles recruited Wood's help to fight a movement from 1822 to 1824 by the Illinois General Assembly, dominated by immigrants from Southern states, to amend the constitution to make Illinois a slave state. A referendum on August 3, 1824, for a constitutional convention for that purpose failed statewide by a ratio of 57 to 43 percent. In the territory in which John Wood fought the proposal, the plan for a slave constitution was defeated 90 to 10 percent. Wood considered his work to keep Illinois a free state one of his life's greatest achievements.\n\nOn September 14, 1824, Wood petitioned the Illinois General Assembly to organize Adams County, Illinois and on January 18, 1825, the measure passed. On April 30, 1825, the unincorporated town of Quincy, Illinois, was designated the county seat.\n\nWood continued to buy land in the Military Tract and sold it at a profit to immigrants arriving in Illinois. With his family growing, Wood in 1835 began construction of a 14-room Greek Revival mansion, the John Wood Mansion, next to his two-story log cabin. His choice of the Greek Revival architectural style was purposeful. The American Revolution fading from memory and the War of 1812 two decades earlier, Wood saw the recent overthrow of the Ottoman Empire by the Greeks, the birthplace of Democracy in 800 A.D., a rebirth of freedom. The Wood home was among the first Greek Revival structures in the Illinois. Wood himself turned the four large columns at the front of a house from coffeywood trees, which he selected, on a horse-powered lathe he fabricated. He built the home on the northwest side of today's 12th and State Street intersection. He found his craftsmen in St. Louis and New Orleans, where he sought men arriving from Germany who were skilled in construction trades. Fluent in German, Wood promised the men lots on the south side of his property on which they could build their homes if they would help Wood build his. The area today is Quincy's German Heritage District. The Association of Independent Architects in 2007 named the Governor John Wood Mansion one of the 150 most important structures in Illinois. The large mansion is now owned by the Historical Society of Quincy and Adams County and is open for tours from April through October.\n\nWood was elected to seven one-year terms as mayor of Quincy 1844–1848, 1852–53 and 1856) and to the Illinois state senate in 1850. Earlier a Whig, Wood became a Republican and was elected Illinois' first Republican Lieutenant Governor of Illinois in 1856. When Governor William Henry Bissell died on March 18, 1860, three years into his four-year term, Wood succeeded him, becoming the state's 12th governor. The General Assembly, soon to adjourn its session in early 1860, granted Wood's request that he be allowed to remain in Quincy to manage business interests and the construction of his stone octagonal mansion. A room on the south side of his Greek Revival mansion was expanded to become the official governor's office of the State of Illinois. While conducting the governor's business from Quincy, Wood permitted Abraham Lincoln to use the governor's office in the state capitol building in Springfield during his 1860 presidential campaign. Wood also allowed Governor Bissell's widow to continue to live in the new executive mansion. Wood's greatest achievement in his ten months as governor was his work to reorganize the Illinois militia, which had been neglected since the end of the Mexican War. With business interests pressing Wood, he declined his party's request to run for re-election.\n\nGovernor Richard Yates appointed Wood one of five Illinois delegates to the failed \"Peace Convention\" in Washington, D.C., in February 1861. After the start of the Civil War in April, John Wood was named Quartermaster General of the State of Illinois. In 1863, at age 65, Wood became even more personally involved in the Civil War. He raised men for the 137th Illinois 100-day volunteers. Wood and the 137th were assigned to duty in southwest Tennessee, and Wood was given command of three more regiments. His own regiment fought a four-hour battle on August 21, 1863, against one of Confederate General Nathan Bedford Forrest's regiments.\n\nIn 1863, Wood's wife Ann died, and he married Mary Ann Holmes.\n\nWood's octagonal mansion was completed in 1864 and his Greek Revival mansion went to his eldest son, Daniel. The octagonal home, built at a cost of $100,000, was the most expensive house in Illinois at that time. An economic decline in 1875 cost Wood his fortune, and creditors forced him to sell his assets, including the stone mansion. It fetched $40,000. Bankrupt, Wood moved back into the Greek Revival mansion he had built four decades earlier.\n\nJohn Wood died at home on June 4, 1880. He was 81. His body is interred in the family plot at Woodland Cemetery, established on 45 acres he donated to the City of Quincy in 1846.\n\nJohn Wood Community College in Quincy is named for the former Governor. A life-size statue of the former governor has been placed in the Illinois State Capitol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947735", "title": "Stanisław Targosz", "text": "Stanisław Targosz\n\nGeneral Stanisław Targosz (23 July 1948, Jaroszów, Poland – 4 August 2013, Grodzisk Mazowiecki, Poland) was a Polish general who was the commanding officer of the Polish Air Force.\n\nOn 15 August 2000, Polish Army Day, he was promoted by president Aleksander Kwaśniewski, to the rank of \"generał brygady\" (brigadier general) and soon afterwards Targosz was transferred to the NATO CAOC-1 command in Denmark. \n\nOn 18 November 2003, Targosz was transferred back to Warsaw, where he assumed the post of deputy chief of Air Operations Centre and, since 8 March 2004, the commander of that centre. On 15 August of that year he was promoted to the rank of \"generał dywizji\" (Major General). Finally, on 3 April 2005, he was promoted to the rank of \"Generał broni\" (three-star general) and became the commanding officer of the entire Polish Air Force until 19 April 2007. He was succeeded by General Andrzej Błasik.\n"}
{"id": "1947739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947739", "title": "Lee Stine", "text": "Lee Stine\n\nLee Elbert Stine (November 17, 1913 – May 6, 2005) was an American right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Chicago White Sox (1934–35), Cincinnati Reds (1936) and New York Yankees (1938).\n\nStine was born in Stillwater, Oklahoma. He signed with the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League when he was just 16. Eventually, he debuted in the major leagues with the Chicago White Sox in 1934. In a four-season career, he posted a 3–8 record with 39 strikeouts and a 5.09 ERA in 143.1 innings.\n\nStine is best known for his historic role in pitching Lou Gehrig's 14th grand slam in 1934. After two years in Chicago, he played for the Reds in 1936, compiling a career high 121.2 innings with a 3–8 record and a 5.03 ERA. Injured a year later, he returned in 1938, pitching briefly for the Yankees.\n\nPlagued by tendinitis and injuries, Stine returned to California to play for the Los Angeles Angels of the PCL in 1940. By 1943 he had joined the Navy during World War II and after discharge settled in Long Beach. He later worked as a parimutuel clerk.\n\nStine died in Hemet, California, due to complications from a stroke, at age 91.\n"}
{"id": "1947751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947751", "title": "Godzilla (comics)", "text": "Godzilla (comics)\n\nGodzilla has appeared in a range of comic books that have been published in Japan and the United States.\n\nIn his native Japan, Godzilla has been featured in various comic books since his inception in 1954. These comics, for the most part, were black-and-white publications known as manga. The vast majority of these comics were adaptations of the films. Every film from \"Godzilla\" to \"Godzilla 2000: Millennium\" received a comic book adaptation with the exception of \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\". In addition, all of the films from \"Godzilla vs. Megaguirus\" to \"\" did not receive a comic book adaptation.\n\nFor the most part, there were anywhere from two to four different adaptations of each film. For example, the first comic adaptation of \"Godzilla vs. Biollante\" was called \"Godzilla 1990\", while the second adaptation of \"Godzilla vs. Mothra\" was called \"Godzilla vs. Mothra: Great Study\". Most of these comics (in particular, the comics from the 1950s to the 1970s) were published in children's magazines such as \"Bokura\", \"Bouken Oh\" and \"Shonen\", while others were published in \"Yellow Pages\"-sized weekly or monthly publications, while still others were published as one-shots and sold in movie theaters. Many of the latter comics (the 1980s to the 1990s) were published by \"Shogakukan Comics\", \"Tentomushi Comics\" and \"Kodansha Comics\". In the early 1990s, many of the original adaptations from the original series of \"Godzilla\" films were compiled into two pocketbook-sized volumes and reprinted by \"Bamboo Books\". In 1992, \"Bamboo\" would reprint Godzilla's battles with King Ghidorah from earlier manga into a collection called \"Battle History of Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\".\n\nMost of the time these adaptations would deviate from the original films and flesh out characters or add scenarios to the stories that were not present in the original films. Outside these adaptations, many of the original \"Godzilla\" films also received Asahi Sonorama book-and-record sets. These illustrated comic-style book-and-record sets featured painted artwork within.\n\nOutside these adaptations, Godzilla was also featured in original stories as well. A sequel story to the original film was published in 1955 called \"The Last Godzilla\", while a sequel story to \"Godzilla Raids Again\" was published in 1958 called \"Godzilla Continued: Anguirus Strikes Back\". In 1979, the Japanese edition of \"Starlog\" featured a two-part illustrated story written by Katsuhiro Otomo called \"A Space Godzilla\". Part 1 was featured in issue No. 4 (\"Farewell Earth\"), while Part 2 was featured in issue No. 6 (\"Return to the Stars\"). In 1990 an anthology-style comic, featuring different stories by different writers and artists, was published and called \"The Godzilla Comic\". This was followed in 1991 by a second anthology-style comic, also featuring different stories by different writers and artists, called \"The Godzilla Comic Raids Again: Gigantis the Fire Comic\". These two comics featured varying styles of stories, which ranged from typical Godzilla stories to comedic stories, violent stories and even \"adult\"-themed stories that contained nudity.\n\nIn 2014, to coincide with the 60th anniversary of Godzilla and the 40th anniversary of the company's own \"Big Comic Original Magazine\", Shogakukan Inc. released the comic \"Big Comic Original Godzilla Special Issue\". This one-shot comic featured 21 Godzilla-themed comic stories from the industry's top manga artists and writers.\n\nIn 2018, Toho will produce a manga serial to be published in \"Weekly Shonen Jump\" based on the film \"\".\n\nThrough the years since 1976, there have been various \"Godzilla\" comics published by different comic book publishing companies. These range from promotional comics to comics published by large mainstream comic companies such as Marvel Comics.\n\nThe first \"Godzilla\" comic published in the United States was actually a small promotional comic. In the summer of 1976 (as part of the publicity promoting the upcoming U.S. release of the film \"Godzilla vs. Megalon\"), a small four-page comic book adaptation was published by Cinema Shares International Distribution Corp. and given away for free at movie theaters. The comic featured no credits (so the artist and writer are unknown) and featured no cover. It was magazine-sized and published on newsprint. The comic is infamous for getting names of two of the major characters wrong, as Jet Jaguar is referred to as \"Robotman\" and Gigan is referred to as \"Borodan\".\n\nIn 1987, Dark Horse Comics acquired the rights to Godzilla and for the next 12 years published various comic books and trade paperbacks based on the character. These ran the gamut from back-up stories in anthology titles, to one-shots, to miniseries, to an ongoing series, as well as various reprints in the trade paperback format. In 1987, they published a black and white one-shot comic called \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters Special\" No. 1. Between 1988 and 1989, Dark Horse published a six-issue miniseries simply called \"Godzilla\". It was a translated version of the Japanese manga of the film \"The Return of Godzilla\", which was based on the Japanese version of the film rather than the Americanized version, \"Godzilla 1985\". This series was reprinted in the trade paperback \"Godzilla\", which was issued in 1990 and then reissued in 1995. It was then reprinted in color as the miniseries \"Dark Horse Classics: Terror of Godzilla\" #1–6 from 1998 to 1999.\n\nIn 1992, an illustration of Godzilla (provided by Arthur Adams) was published in \"San Diego Comic Con Comics\" No. 1. Also that same year the one-shot issue \"Godzilla Color Special\" No. 1 was published. It would be reprinted as simply \"Dark Horse Classics: Godzilla\" #1 in 1998.\n\nIn 1993, Godzilla was featured in the anthology series \"Dark Horse Comics\" in issues No. 10 and No. 11(parts of \"Dark Horse Comics\" #10's story and artwork would be slightly altered twice in both \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\" No. 0 and the trade paperback \"Godzilla: Age of Monsters\"). That same year Godzilla was also featured in a pair of one-shot comics, \"Urban Legends\" #1, which dispels the dual ending myth from the film \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\", and \"Godzilla vs. Barkley\", which was based on the TV commercial \"Godzilla vs. Charles Barkley\". The latter comic was also published in Japan.\n\nIn 1995, Godzilla appeared in the one-shot comic \"Godzilla versus Hero Zero\". That same year Godzilla starred in a second ongoing series called \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\" that ran from issue #0–16. This series was published from 1995 to 1996. The series features several new monsters for Godzilla to battle and a story arc in which Godzilla was flung through time by a would-be archvillain, who uses him to cause both the San Francisco earthquake of 1906 and the sinking of the \"RMS Titanic\", as well as battle the Spanish Armada. Godzilla would then be flung into the far-flung future as well and would rampage across it before returning to the modern day. The last issue of the Dark Horse series sees Godzilla flung back into time to just a few hours before the asteroid which supposedly destroyed the dinosaurs impacted on Earth, and fighting an alien creature. This issue first seems to have an \"it was all a dream\" ending, as Godzilla wakes from his slumber in the modern day. But then a twist is thrown into the ending: Godzilla is shown staring at a piece of his opponent's tail that is still in his hand from where he had ripped it off in the final moments of their battle before the impact.\n\nIn 1996, Godzilla appeared in the anthology series \"Dark Horse Presents\" in issue #106, as well as in issue No. 4 of the four-issue miniseries \"A Decade of Dark Horse\". Also that same year, some of the earlier published material was reprinted in the trade paperback \"Art Adams' Creature Features\".\n\nFinally, in 1998, Godzilla appeared in trade paperbacks and miniseries that were simply reprinting earlier material. This included the miniseries \"Dark Horse Classics: Godzilla-King of the Monsters\" #1–6 and the trade paperbacks \"Godzilla: Age of Monsters\" and \"Godzilla: Past Present Future\".\n\nIn 1994, Trendmasters toys published a mini-comic called \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\" that came packaged with some of the figures from their Godzilla toy line.\n\nIn 1998, \"Fox Kids Magazine\" featured two \"\" comics to promote the animated series, one based upon the three-part episode \"Monster War\" and the other being an original story.\n\nIn 2010, IDW Publishing obtained the rights for the license to Godzilla. Unlike the two previous companies who licensed Godzilla, IDW was able to acquire the rights to many other Toho movie monsters. These include Anguirus, Rodan, Mothra, King Ghidorah, Kumonga, Hedorah, Gigan (Showa), Mechagodzilla (Showa), Titanosaurus, Battra, SpaceGodzilla, Destoroyah, Moguera, Varan, Manda, Baragon, Gaira, Sanda, Ebirah, Kamacuras, Gorosaurus, Gezora, Kamoebas, Jet Jaguar, Megalon, King Caesar, Biollante, Mecha-King Ghidorah, Orga, Megaguirus, Zilla, Mechagodzilla (Heisei), Gigan (Millenium) and Kiryu. As well as these licensed monsters, IDW introduced a new group of monsters called the Trilopods (トリロポッド). Created by artist Matt Frank, these monsters are based on the prehistoric arthropods called trilobites.\n\nFrom March 2011 to February 2012, IDW published their first \"Godzilla\" series, a 12-issue series called \"Godzilla: Kingdom of Monsters\". Originally going to be titled \"Godzilla: Monster World\", the new series launched with a painted cover by Alex Ross, as well as a record 100 variant covers of issue No. 1 that were mostly retailer incentives. This promotion allowed 100 U.S. comic book store owners to have personalized variants featuring their store being demolished by Godzilla's foot if they each ordered over 500 copies of issue No. 1.As a result, \"Godzilla: Kingdom of Monsters\" #1 was thus able to sell out its 1st printing. In August 2011, IDW released a one-shot issue called \"Godzilla: Kingdom of Monsters 100-Cover Charity Spectacular\". The issue featured all 100 of the unique covers of the comic book store-smashing variants of issue No. 1 via a cover gallery. Proceeds from the sale of the issue went to benefit the International Medical Corps for tsunami relief in Japan. In September 2011, they began collecting the series as a three-volume trade paperback series. In July 2019, the entire series was collected as a deluxe trade paperback.\n\nFrom May 2012 to May 2013, IDW published a second ongoing series, simply called \"Godzilla\". The series ran 13 issues. In November 2012, they began collecting the series as a three-volume trade paperback series. In April 2014, the entire series was collected as a deluxe trade paperback called \"Godzilla: History's Greatest Monster\".\n\nFrom June 2013 to June 2015, IDW published a third ongoing series called \"Godzilla: Rulers of Earth\", which ran 25 issues. They began collecting the series as a six-volume trade paperback series in December 2013. In June 2016, they started to recollect the series as a two-volume deluxe trade paperback series, with the first volume called \"Godzilla: Complete Rulers of Earth Volume 1\". In August 2019 the second volume, called \"Godzilla: Complete Rulers of Earth Volume 2\", was released.\n\nOutside the ongoing main series, IDW has also published seven five-issue miniseries. They first published a five-issue miniseries called \"Godzilla: Gangsters & Goliaths\" from June – October 2011. The miniseries was then collected as a trade paperback in November 2011.\n\nA second five-issue miniseries called \"Godzilla: Legends\" was published from November 2011 – March 2012. The miniseries was then collected as a trade paperback in June 2012.\n\nA third five-issue miniseries called \"Godzilla: The Half-Century War\" was published from August – December 2012. The miniseries was then collected as a trade paperback in May 2013. The miniseries was then collected again as a hardcover book, with additional artwork, in July 2015. In October 2016, issue No. 1 was reprinted as \"Godzilla: The Half-Century War – Greatest Hits\" #1.\n\nA fourth five-issue miniseries called \"Godzilla: Cataclysm\" was published from August – December 2014. The miniseries was then collected as a trade paperback in March 2015.\n\nA fifth five-issue miniseries called \"Godzilla in Hell\" was published from July – November 2015. Issues No. 1 and 2 of the miniseries both went into a 2nd and 3rd printing, while issue No. 3 went into a 2nd printing. The miniseries was then collected as a trade paperback in February 2016.\n\nA sixth five-issue miniseries called \"Godzilla: Oblivion\" (which was originally going to be titled \"Godzilla: World's End\") was published from March – July 2016. The miniseries was then collected as a trade paperback in October 2016.\n\nA seventh five-issue miniseries called \"Godzilla: Rage Across Time\" was published from August – November 2016. Issue No. 1 went into a 2nd printing. The miniseries was then collected as a trade paperback in December 2016.\n\nIn June 2014, IDW published a one-shot issue called \"Godzilla: The IDW Era\".\nThis one-shot issue gave a brief overview of all the various IDW \"Godzilla\" series and miniseries that were published over the past three years.\n\nIn June 2016. a one-shot collection called \"Godzilla Treasury Edition\" was released. This one-shot collection features reprints of some of James Stokoe's artwork and covers from the various IDW series and miniseries.\n\nIn May 2014, Legendary Comics published \"Godzilla: Awakening\", a graphic novel acting as a prequel to \"Godzilla\" (2014). It was written by Max and Greg Borenstein and featured art by Eric Battle, Yvel Giuchet, and Alan Quah. In September (to coincide with the film's home video release) the novel was reissued as a trade paperback.\n\nIn October 2018, Legendary announced plans for a prequel graphic novel to \"\" titled \"Godzilla: Aftershock\". It was written by Arvid Nelson, illustrated by Drew Edward Johnson and released on May 21, 2019.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947752", "title": "If You Can Believe Your Eyes and Ears", "text": "If You Can Believe Your Eyes and Ears\n\nIf You Can Believe Your Eyes and Ears is the debut album by the Mamas and the Papas, released in 1966. In 2003, it was ranked number 127 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time, with its rank rising to number 112 in the 2012 revision.\n\nThe stereo mix of the album is included in its entirety on \"All the Leaves are Brown\" (2001), a 2-CD retrospective compilation of the band's first four albums and various singles, as well as on \"The Mamas & the Papas Complete Anthology\" (2004), a 4-CD box set collection released in the UK.\n\nThe mono mix of the album was remastered and reissued on vinyl by Sundazed Records in 2010, and on CD the following year.\n\nThe cover art was produced and shot by photographer Guy Webster.\n\nThe album received a positive retrospective review in \"Rolling Stone\", where critic Rob Sheffield remarked \"The Mamas and the Papas celebrated all the sin and sleaze of Sixties L.A. with folksy harmonies, acoustic guitars and songs that told inquiring minds way more than they wanted to know. And on their January 1966 debut, \"If You Can Believe Your Eyes and Ears\", they somehow made it all sound groovy.\" He described the album as a dark look at L.A. culture that sounds accessible and optimistic thanks in large part to Lou Adler's production. Bruce Eder wrote for AllMusic that the album \"embraced folk-rock, pop/rock, pop, and soul, and also reflected the kind of care that acts like the Beatles were putting into their records at the time.\" He added that it had a stronger polish than The Mamas and the Papas' other albums, in part because it predated the personal conflicts which tainted their later works. The album was included in Robert Dimery's \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947758", "title": "Heteropoda venatoria", "text": "Heteropoda venatoria\n\nHeteropoda venatoria is a species of spider in the family Sparassidae, the huntsman spiders. It is native to the tropical regions of the world, and it is present in some subtropical areas as an introduced species. Its common names include giant crab spider and cane spider.\n\nThe adult has a flat, brown body 2 to 2.5 cm (0.8 to 1 inch) long, 7 to 10 cm (3 to 4 inches) wide, including the legs. The female may be slightly larger than the male, particularly in the abdomen, but the male has longer legs and larger tips on its pedipalps. The clypeus, the area just in front of the eyes, is cream or yellowish, and the carapace behind the eyes has a wide band which is usually tan in the female and cream in the male. The body is not very hairy, but the legs have erectile setae, each of which is marked with a black dot.\n\nThe female produces an egg sac up to about 2.5 centimeters wide and carries it with its pedipalps under its body. Egg sacs are variable in size, usually containing over 100 eggs, with larger ones holding over 400. The spiderlings undergo their first molt while still in the sac. In one small laboratory sample, the life span of the male averaged 465 days, and that of the female was 580 days.\n\nAs part of its courtship behavior, the male produces a sound by vibrating its abdomen while keeping its feet firmly planted. This is faintly audible to humans as a \"buzz\" or \"hum\".\n\nThe spider is not considered dangerous, but it does deliver enough venom to give a painful bite.\n\nThe spider feeds on insects, which includes various species of butterflies and moths such as \"Deilephila elpenor\". The spider captures them directly instead of spinning webs. After capturing its prey, the spider injects them with venom. The venom of this spider contains the toxin HpTX2, a potassium channel blocker. In some tropical areas the spider is considered a useful resident of households because of its efficient consumption of pest insects. It commonly lives in houses and other structures such as barns and sheds, especially in areas that experience cold temperatures. It is sensitive to cold and can live outdoors only in warmer climates.\n\nBesides insects it has been known to prey on scorpions and bats.\n"}
{"id": "1947759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947759", "title": "Rock the Coast", "text": "Rock the Coast\n\nRock the Coast is a concert put on by Muskegon, Michigan-based Alive on the Lakeshore. The event was presented for several years at Michigan's Adventure. As of 2017, Rock the Coast took place at Ottawa County Fairgrounds in Holland, Michigan. It features Christian artists, including Crowder, Hillsong Young & Free, Plumb, Josh Wilson, Audio Adrenaline, Roper, and Toby Mac. Rock the Coast is typically held in May. In the past, the concert has featured several acts, among those Kutless, Family Force Five, BarlowGirl, Hawk Nelson, Everlife, Fireflight, John Reuben, and Superchick.\n\nThe festival is a member of the Christian Festival Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947760", "title": "Lewisville Lake", "text": "Lewisville Lake\n\nLewisville Lake is a reservoir in North Texas (USA) on the Elm Fork of the Trinity River in Denton County near Lewisville. Originally engineered in 1927 as Lake Dallas, the reservoir was expanded in the 1940s and 1950s and renamed Lewisville Lake. It was built for flood control purposes and to serve as a water source for Dallas and its suburbs, but residents also use it for recreational purposes.\n\nLewisville Lake is the second lake to impound the waters of the Elm Fork of the Trinity River in this area. The W.E. Callahan Construction Company completed the Garza Dam in 1927 at a cost of $5 million, which created Lake Dallas. The dam was long with a long service spillway. The lake, with its capacity and forty-three miles of shoreline, was the principal municipal water source for the city of Dallas for 31 years.\n\nIn the 1940s, a need for increased water storage capacity and additional flood control became apparent. The United States Congress passed the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1945, which called for additional construction in the Trinity River basin. The United States Army Corps of Engineers built the Garza-Little Elm Dam between 1948 and 1954 at cost of $23.4 million. The structure combined Lake Dallas, Hickory Creek, and Little Elm Creek. The long Lewisville Dam was completed in 1955, and the Garza Dam was breached in 1957 to create the new lake, known then as Garza-Little Elm Reservoir and renamed Lewisville Lake. This new lake had one hundred eighty-three miles of shoreline and a capacity. In 1998, additional modifications raised the lake's permanent level from 515 feet MSL to 522 feet MSL and increased the holding capacity to 555,000 acre-feet.\n\nDuring construction, members of the Corps of Engineers stumbled upon an archaeological site. In 1956, Wilson W. Crook, Jr. and R.K. Harris announced Carbon-14(C) testing on artifacts from the site, including a Paleo-Indian Clovis projectile point, indicated humans had lived there c. 36,000 BP. This led to much controversy in the archaeological community. It was not until 1978 the water levels would recede enough to access the site again. Between 1978 and 1980, Dennis Stanford of the Smithsonian Institution performed a thorough analysis of the site. He concluded the original dating was due to a rare form of cross-contamination and a date of c. 12,000 B.P. was more correct. Still, the site is considered one of the earliest inhabited by humans in the Southwestern United States and Mexico.\n\nThe breaching of the Garza Dam and incorporation of Lake Dallas into the Garza-Little Elm reservoir led to confusion concerning the lake's legal name. This was compounded by the Village of Garza renaming itself Lake Dallas. The federal government attempted to rename the lake as Lewisville Reservoir in 1960, only to reverse itself in 1961. The confusion persisted until the mid-1970s when the lake was officially designated Lewisville Lake. In 1991, the city of Denton installed a hydropower facility at Lewisville Dam. The single horizontal S-Shaped Kaplan unit can produce 2893 kilowatts, and is connected to the grid via the Brazos River Distribution Authority.\n\nThe lake is in the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex, so during the summer months, it can become extremely crowded. There are six marinas and three restaurants on the lake. Recreational boating is popular with boat tours and charters available from area businesses. Visitors looking for a more rowdy scene like to visit Party Cove. Centrally located on the lake, near Westlake Park, is the place where boats tie up to one another, listen to music and consume alcoholic beverages. In 2005, at the first large scale bass fishing tournament at Lewisville Lake, Kevin VanDam took home 1st place and a check for $100,000. He also caught, at the time, the lake record bass at . The Woman's Bassmaster Tour's inaugural event was held in October 2005. The Tour returned in May 2006 and again in April 2008, with angler Kim Bain winning, taking home $51,000 in cash and prizes.\n\nNine bridges cross the lake:\nHighland Village/Lewisville Lake Station is a commuter rail stop on the DCTA A-train. It connects downtown Denton with DART's Green Line in Carrollton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947768", "title": "Wild Gift", "text": "Wild Gift\n\nWild Gift is the second studio album by American rock band X, released in March 1981 by Slash Records. It was very well received critically, and was voted No. 2 for the year in \"The Village Voice\" Pazz & Jop Critics Poll. The album was ranked No. 333 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.\n\nIn 1988, Slash issued \"Los Angeles\" and \"Wild Gift\" jointly on a single compact disc. \"Wild Gift\" was remastered and reissued in 2001 by Rhino Records, with seven bonus tracks.\n\nThe track \"White Girl\" was sampled by the Red Hot Chili Peppers on their 1989 album \"Mother's Milk\", in the song \"Good Time Boys\". The Chili Peppers song's lyrics mentioned X's John Doe specifically, \"whose voice is made of gold\".\n\nIn \"\" (1990), critic Robert Christgau gave \"Wild Gift\" a rare A+ rating, writing that \"hippies couldn't understand jealousy because they believed in universal love; punks can't understand it because they believe sex is a doomed reflex of existentially discrete monads. As X-Catholics obsessed with a guilt they can't accept and committed to a subculture that gives them no peace, Exene and John Doe are prey to both misconceptions, and their struggle with them is thrilling and edifying ... Who knows whether the insightful ministrations of their guitarist will prove as therapeutic for them as for you and me, but I say trust a bohemian bearing gifts. How often do we get a great love album and a great punk album in the same package?\" Christgau later ranked the album third on his \"Personal Best\" list for the 1980s, the highest placing of any rock album.\n\nWhen \"The Village Voice\" held their Pazz & Jop Critics Poll for 1981, \"Wild Gift\" was ranked at No. 2, behind \"Sandinista!\" by the Clash. It was listed at No. 334 in \"Rolling Stone\"'s list \"The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time\".\n\nAll tracks written by John Doe and Exene Cervenka.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947769", "title": "Divination by Astrological and Meteorological Phenomena", "text": "Divination by Astrological and Meteorological Phenomena\n\nThe Divination by Astrological and Meteorological Phenomena (), also known as Book of Silk is an ancient astronomy silk manuscript compiled by Chinese astronomers of the Western Han Dynasty (202 BC – 9 AD) and found in the Mawangdui of Changsha, Hunan, China in 1973. It lists 29 comets (referred to as 彗星, literally \"broom stars\") that appeared over a period of about 300 years.\n\nIt is now exhibited in the Hunan Provincial Museum.\n\nThe \"Divination by Astrological and Meteorological Phenomena\" contains what archaeologists claim is the first definitive atlas of comets. There are roughly two dozen renderings of comets, some in fold out/pop-up format. In some cases, the pages of the document roll out to be five feet long. Each comet's picture has a caption which describes an event its appearance corresponded to, such as \"the death of the prince\", \"the coming of the plague\", or \"the three-year drought.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947778", "title": "Statutory interpretation", "text": "Statutory interpretation\n\nStatutory interpretation is the process by which courts interpret and apply legislation. Some amount of interpretation is often necessary when a case involves a statute. Sometimes the words of a statute have a plain and a straightforward meaning. But in many cases, there is some ambiguity or vagueness in the words of the statute that must be resolved by the judge. To find the meanings of statutes, judges use various tools and methods of statutory interpretation, including traditional canons of statutory interpretation, legislative history, and purpose.\nIn common law jurisdictions, the judiciary may apply rules of statutory interpretation both to legislation enacted by the legislature and to delegated legislation such as administrative agency regulations.\n\nStatutory interpretation first became significant in common law systems, of which England is the exemplar. In Roman and Civil law, a statute (or code) guides the magistrate, but there is no judicial precedent. In England, Parliament historically failed to enact a comprehensive code of legislation, which is why it was left to the courts to develop the common law; and having decided a case and given reasons for the decision, the decision would become binding on later courts.\n\nAccordingly, a particular interpretation of a statute would also become binding, and it became necessary to introduce a consistent framework for statutory interpretation. In the construction (interpretation) of statutes, the principle aim of the court must be to carry out the \"Intention of Parliament\", and the English courts developed three main rules (plus some minor ones) to assist them in the task. These were: the mischief rule, the literal rule, and the golden rule.\n\nStatutes may be presumed to incorporate certain components, as Parliament is \"presumed\" to have intended their inclusion. For example:\n\n\nWhere legislation and case law are in conflict, there is a presumption that legislation takes precedence insofar as there is any inconsistency. In the United Kingdom this principle is known as parliamentary sovereignty; but while Parliament has exclusive jurisdiction to legislate, the courts (mindful of their historic role of having developed the entire system of common law) retain sole jurisdiction to \"interpret\" statutes.\n\nThe age old process of application of the enacted law has led to formulation of certain rules of interpretation. According to CROSS, \"Interpretation is the process by which the courts determine the meaning of a statutory provision for the purpose of applying it to the situation before them.\" While SALMOND says that, \"the process by which the courts seek to ascertain the meaning of the legislature through the medium of authoritative forms in which it is expressed\". Interpretation of a particular statute depends upon the degree of creativity applied by the judges or the court in the reading of it, employed to achieve some stated end. A statute can be interpreted by using the Golden Rule, the Mischief Rule or the Literal Rule.\n\nA statute is an edict of the legislature and the conventional way of interpreting a statute is to seek the 'intention' of its maker. It is the judicature's duty to act upon the true intention of the legislature or the mens or sentential legis. The courts have to objectively determine the interpretation with guidance furnished by the accepted principles. If a statutory provision is open to more than one interpretation the court has to choose that interpretation which represents the true intention of the legislature. The function of the courts is only to expound and not to legislate.\n\nThe judiciary interprets how legislation should apply in a particular case as no legislation unambiguously and specifically addresses all matters. Legislation may contain uncertainties for a variety of reasons:\n\nTherefore, the court must try to determine how a statute should be enforced. This requires statutory construction. It is a tenet of statutory construction that the legislature is supreme (assuming constitutionality) when creating law and that the court is merely an interpreter of the law. Nevertheless, in practice, by performing the construction the court can make sweeping changes in the operation of the law.\n\nStatutory interpretation refers to the process by which a court looks at a statute and determines what it means. A statute, which is a bill or law passed by the legislature, imposes obligations and rules on the people. Although legislature makes the Statute, it may be open to interpretation and have ambiguities. Statutory interpretation is the process of resolving those ambiguities and deciding how a particular bill or law will apply in a particular case.\n\nAssume, for example, that a statute mandates that all motor vehicles travelling on a public roadway must be registered with the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). If the statute does not define the term \"motor vehicles\", then that term will have to be interpreted if questions arise in a court of law. A person driving a motorcycle might be pulled over and the police may try to fine him if his motorcycle is not registered with the DMV. If that individual argued to the court that a motorcycle is not a \"motor vehicle,\" then the court would have to interpret the statute to determine what the legislature meant by \"motor vehicle\" and whether or not the motorcycle fell within that definition and was covered by the statute.\n\nThere are numerous rules of statutory interpretation. The first and most important rule is the rule dealing with the statute's plain language. This rule essentially states that the statute means what it says. If, for example, the statute says \"motor vehicles\", then the court is most likely to construe that the legislation is referring to the broad range of motorised vehicles normally required to travel along roadways and not \"aeroplanes\" or \"bicycles\" even though aeroplanes are vehicles propelled by a motor and bicycles may be used on a roadway.\n\nIn Australia and in the United States, the courts have consistently stated that the text of the statute is used first, and it is read as it is written, using the ordinary meaning of the words of the statute.\n\nBelow are various quotes on this topic from US courts:\n\nFederal jurisdictions may presume that either federal or local government authority prevails in the absence of a defined rule. In Canada, there are areas of law where provincial governments and the federal government have concurrent jurisdiction. In these cases the federal law is held to be paramount. However, in areas where the Canadian constitution is silent, the federal government does not necessarily have superior jurisdiction. Rather, an area of law that is not expressly mentioned in Canada's Constitution will have to be interpreted to fall under either the federal residual jurisdiction found in the preamble of s. 91—known as the Peace, Order and Good Government clause—or the provinces residual jurisdiction of \"Property and Civil Rights\" under s. 92(13) of the 1867 Constitution Act. This contrasts with other federal jurisdictions, notably the United States and Australia, where it is presumed that if legislation is not enacted pursuant to a specific provision of the federal Constitution, the states will have authority over the relevant matter in their respective jurisdictions, unless the state's definitions of their statutes conflicts with federally established or recognized rights.\n\nIt is presumed that a statute will be interpreted so as to be internally consistent. A particular section of the statute shall not be divorced from the rest of the act. The ejusdem generis (or \"eiusdem generis\", Latin for \"of the same kind\") rule applies to resolve the problem of giving meaning to groups of words where one of the words is ambiguous or inherently unclear. The rule results that where \"general words follow enumerations of particular classes or persons or things, the general words shall be construed as applicable only to persons or things of the same general nature or kind as those enumerated.\" \n\nA statute shall not be interpreted so as to be inconsistent with other statutes. Where there is an inconsistency, the judiciary will attempt to provide a harmonious interpretation.\n\nLegislative bodies themselves may try to influence or assist the courts in interpreting their laws by placing into the legislation itself statements to that effect. These provisions have many different names, but are typically noted as:\n\nThese provisions of the bill simply give the legislature's goals and desired effects of the law, and are considered non substantive and non-enforceable in and of themselves.\n\nAlso known as canons of construction, canons give common sense guidance to courts in interpreting the meaning of statutes. Most canons emerge from the common law process through the choices of judges. Proponents of the use of canons argue that the canons constrain judges and limit the ability of the courts to legislate from the bench. Critics argue that a judge always has a choice between competing canons that lead to different results, so judicial discretion is only hidden through the use of canons, not reduced.\n\nTextual canons are rules of thumb for understanding the words of the text. Some of the canons are still known by their traditional Latin names.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSubstantive canons instruct the court to favor interpretations that promote certain values or policy results.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeference canons instruct the court to defer to the interpretation of another institution, such as an administrative agency or Congress. These canons reflect an understanding that the judiciary is not the only branch of government entrusted with constitutional responsibility.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCritics of the use of canons argue that canons impute some sort of \"omniscience\" to the legislature, suggesting that it is aware of the canons when constructing the laws. In addition, it is argued that the canons give a credence to judges who want to construct the law a certain way, imparting a false sense of justification to their otherwise arbitrary process. In a classic article, Karl Llewellyn argued that every canon had a \"counter-canon\" that would lead to the opposite interpretation of the statute.\n\nThe common textual canons of statutory construction employed in American jurisprudence are: (1) Ejusdem generis -\" \"of the same kinds, class, or nature,\"\" \" (2) Expressio unius est exclusio alterius - \"\"the express mention of one thing excludes all others,\" (3) Noscitur a sociis -\" \"a word is known by the company it keeps,\"(4) \"In pari materia - \"upon the same matter or subject,\" and (5) Common, technical, legal, or trade definition.\n\nThe French philosopher Montesquieu (1689-1755) believed that courts should act as \"the mouth of the law\", but soon it was found that some interpretation is inevitable. \nFollowing the German scholar Friedrich Carl von Savigny (1779-1861) the four main interpretation methods are:\nIt is controversial whether there is a hierarchy between interpretation methods. Germans prefer a \"grammatical\" (literal) interpretation, because the statutory text has a democratic legitimation, and \"sensible\" interpretations are risky, in particular in view of German history. \"Sensible\" means different things to different people. The modern common law perception that courts actually \"make\" law is very different. In a German perception, courts can only \"further\" develop law (\"Rechtsfortbildung\").\nAll of the above methods may seem reasonable: \nThe freedom of interpretation varies by area of law. Criminal law and tax law must be interpreted very strictly, and never to the disadvantage of citizens, but liability law requires more elaborate interpretation, because here (usually) both parties are citizens. Here the statute may even be interpreted \"contra legem\" in exceptional cases, if otherwise a patently unreasonable result would follow.\n\nThe interpretation of international treaties is governed by another treaty, the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, notably Articles 31–33. Some states (such as the United States) are not a parties to the treaty, but recognize that the Convention is, at least in part, merely a codification of customary international law.\n\nThe rule set out in the Convention is essentially that the text of a treaty is decisive unless it either leaves the meaning ambiguous, or obscure, or leads to a result that is manifestly absurd or unreasonable. Recourse to \"supplementary means of interpretation\" is allowed only in that case, like the preparatory works, also known by the French designation of \"travaux préparatoires\".\n\nOver time, various methods of statutory construction have fallen in and out of favor. Some of the better-known rules of construction methods are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947782", "title": "List of high schools in the District of Columbia", "text": "List of high schools in the District of Columbia\n\nThis is a list of high schools in the District of Columbia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947787", "title": "Women in the military", "text": "Women in the military\n\nWomen have served in the military in many different roles in various jurisdictions throughout history.\n\nSince 1914, in western militaries, women have served in greater numbers and more diverse roles than before. In the 1970s, most Western armies began allowing women to serve in active duty in all military branches. In 2006, eight countries conscripted women into military service. In 2013, Norway became the first NATO country to draft women, as well as the first country in the world to conscript women on the same formal terms as men. In 2017, neighboring Sweden followed suit and in 2018, the Netherlands joined this line-up. \nDuring the First World War, the United States was in total warfare efforts. Every person had to help in contributing to the war. However, this doesn't necessarily mean that everyone needed to fight. The country needed to continue to fund its troops and support the war financially while soldiers were fighting. The United States relied on organizations to support war efforts. Women joined organizations such as the Committee on Public Information in order to educate people about the war. This committee additionally promoted nationality. In addition to working for committees having to do with education, women worked in all sorts of positions. Many women became YWCA members and went overseas to help soldiers. This was the first time in history that women of all classes were working together to help the war efforts. Upper-class women founded many voluntary war organizations while middle and lower-class women worked in these organizations by working as nurses or by filling in the jobs of men.\n\nThe only nation to deploy female combat troops in substantial numbers was Russia. From the onset, female recruits either joined the military in disguise or were tacitly accepted by their units. The most prominent were a contingent of front-line light cavalry in a Cossack regiment commanded by a female colonel, Alexandra Kudasheva. Others included Maria Bochkareva, who was decorated three times and promoted to senior NCO rank, while \"The New York Times\" reported that a group of twelve schoolgirls from Moscow had enlisted together disguised as young men. In 1917, the Provisional Government raised a number of \"Women's Battalions\", with Bochkareva given an officer's commission in command. They were disbanded before the end of the year. In the later Russian Civil War, they fought both for the Bolsheviks (infantry) and the White Guard.\n\nIn Serbia, a few individual women played key military roles. Scottish doctor Elsie Ingles coordinated a retreat of approximately 8,000 Serbian troops through Romania and revolutionary Russia, up to Scandinavia and finally onto transport ships back to England . Another woman, Milunka Savic, enlisted in the Serbian army in place of her brother. She fought throughout the war, becoming possibly the most decorated woman in military history.\n\nIn 1918 Loretta Walsh became the first woman to enlist as a woman. A 1948 law made women a permanent part of the military services. In 1976, the first group of women were admitted into a U.S. military academy. Approximately 16% of the 2013 West Point class consisted of women. In the 1918 Finnish Civil War, more than 2,000 women fought in the Women's Red Guards.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, thousands of women fought in mixed-gender combat and rearguard units, or as part of militias.\n\nAll the major participating nations in World War II enlisted women. The majority served as nursing and clerical or support roles. Over 500,000 women had combat roles in anti-aircraft units in Britain and Germany, as well as front-line units in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1942, the Indian National Army (Azaad Hind Fauj) established India's first all women regiment to fight for Indian independence under the leadership of Subash Chandra Bose, with Japanese assistance. It is estimated that over 1,000 women served in the regiment.\n\nIn 1938, the British took the lead in establishing uniformed services for women (small units of nurses had long been in service). In late 1941, Britain began conscripting women, sending most into factories and some into the military, especially the Auxiliary Territorial Service (ATS) attached to the army. The ATS began as a women's auxiliary in 1938. In 1941, the ATS was granted military status, although women received only two thirds of male pay. Women had a well-publicized role in handling anti-aircraft guns against German planes and V-1 missiles. The daughter of Prime Minister Winston Churchill was there, and he said that any general who saved him 40,000 fighting men had gained the equivalent of a victory. By August 1941, women were operating fire-control instruments; although they were never allowed to pull the trigger, since killing the enemy was considered to be too masculine. By 1943, 56,000 women were in Anti-Aircraft Command, mostly in units close to London where they faced a risk of death, but not of capture. The first death of a woman in Anti-Aircraft Command occurred in April 1942.\n\nThe Third Reich had similar roles for women. The SS-Helferinnen were regarded as part of the SS if they had undergone training at a Reichsschule SS. All other female workers were contracted to the SS and chosen largely from concentration camps. Women served in auxiliary units in the navy (Kriegshelferinnen), air force (Luftnachrichtenhelferinnen) and army (Nachrichtenhelferin).\n\nIn 1944-45 roughly 500,000 women were volunteer uniformed auxiliaries in the German armed forces (Wehrmacht). About the same number served in civil aerial defense, 400,000 volunteered as nurses and many more replaced drafted men in the wartime economy. In the Luftwaffe they served in combat roles helping to operate anti-aircraft systems to shoot down Allied bombers. By 1945, German women held 85% of the billets as clerics, accountants, interpreters, laboratory workers and administrative workers, together with half of the clerical and junior administrative posts in high-level field headquarters.\n\nThe German nursing service consisted of four main organizations, one for Catholics, one for Protestants, the secular DRK (Red Cross) and the \"Brown Nurses,\" for committed Nazi women. Military nursing was primarily handled by the DRK, which came under partial Nazi control. Frontline medical services were provided by male medics and doctors. Red Cross nurses served widely within the military medical services, staffing the hospitals close to the front lines and at risk of attack. Two dozen were awarded the Iron Cross for heroism under fire. Brown Nurses were forced to look away while their incapacitated patients were murdered by war criminals.\n\nHundreds of women auxiliaries (Aufseherin) served in the SS in the camps, the majority of which were at Ravensbrück.\n\nIn Germany, women worked and were told by Hitler to produce more pure Aryan children to fight in future wars.\n\nDuring the second world war, many Japanese American women lost their jobs or pay because they were sent to relocation camps. Japanese immigrants and Japanese Americans were faced with discrimination. Many Americans called it the \"yellow peril\" and called Japanese people \"japs\". In 1913, California passed the Alien Land Law which prohibited \"aliens ineligible for citizenship\" from owning land to grow crops on. Despite the discrimination, many Japanese American women volunteered to serve in the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps. Sexism along with racism was something that these women faced when they joined WAAC. Even while dealing with discrimination, Japanese American women were able to greatly help the United States. Many women were hired as interpreters, translators, and interrogators in the Military Intelligence Service. In 1948, the Women's Army Corps was permanently established and remained until 1978 when women were allowed into the army.\n\nIn Italy, during the second world war, the Female Auxiliary Service (Italian: \"Servizio Ausiliario Femminile\", SAF) was a women's' corps of the armed forces of the Italian Social Republic, whose components, all voluntary, were commonly referred to as auxiliaries. The commander was the Brig. Gen. Piera Gatteschi Fondelli.\n\nThe Yugoslav National Liberation Movement had 6,000,000 civilian supporters; its two million women formed the Antifascist Front of Women (AFŽ), in which the revolutionary coexisted with the traditional. The AFŽ managed schools, hospitals and local governments. About 100,000 women served with 600,000 men in Tito's Yugoslav National Liberation Army. It stressed its dedication to women's rights and gender equality and used the imagery of folklore heroines to attract and legitimize the fighters. After the war, although women were relegated to traditional gender roles, Yugoslavia's historians emphasized women's roles in the resistance. After Yugoslavia broke up in the 1990s, women's contributions to the resistance were forgotten.\n\nThough relatively little official data exists about female Vietnam War veterans, the Vietnam Women's Memorial Foundation estimates that approximately 11,000 military women were stationed in Vietnam during the conflict. Nearly all of them were volunteers, and 90 percent served as military nurses, though women also worked as physicians, air traffic controllers, intelligence officers, clerks and other positions in the U.S. Women's Army Corps, U.S. Navy, Air Force and Marines and the Army Medical Specialist Corps. In addition to women in the armed forces, an unknown number of civilian women served in Vietnam on behalf of the Red Cross, United Service Organizations (USO), Catholic Relief Services and other humanitarian organizations, or as foreign correspondents for various news organizations.\n\nIn addition to the U.S. military women who served in Vietnam, an unknown number of female civilians willingly gave their services on Vietnamese soil during the conflict. Many of them worked on behalf of the American Red Cross, Army Special Services, United Service Organizations (USO), Peace Corps, and various religious groups such as Catholic Relief Services.\n\nOther American women traveled to Vietnam as foreign correspondents for news organizations, including Georgette \"Dickey\" Chappelle, a writer for the National Observer who was killed by a mine while on patrol with U.S. Marines outside Chu Lai in November 1965. According to the Vietnam Women's Memorial Foundation, 59 female civilians died during the conflict.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo began training an initial 150 women as para-commandos for the Armée Nationale Congolaise in 1967. Many more were trained subsequently, over a period of years. The women received parachute and weapons training, although it is unclear to what extent they were actually integrated into the combat units of the Congo.\n\nIn 1999, the BBC reported that about a quarter of the Eritrean soldiers in the Eritrean–Ethiopian War were women.\n\nIsrael is the only country with conscription for women. Mandatory conscription for single and married women without children began in 1948.\n\nInitially, women conscripts served in the Women's Army Corps, serving as clerks, drivers, welfare workers, nurses, radio operators, flight controllers, ordnance personnel and instructors. Roles for women beyond technical and secretarial support began opening up in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nIn 2000, the Equality amendment to the Military Service law granted equal opportunities in the military to women found physically and personally suitable for a job. Women started to enter combat support and light combat roles in a few areas, including the Artillery Corps, infantry units and armored divisions. A few platoons named Carakal were formed for men and women to serve together in light infantry. Many women joined the Border Police.\n\nDespite these changes, fewer than 4 percent of women service members are in combat positions such as infantry, crew of tanks or other armored vehicles, artillery guns service, fighter pilots, etc. Rather, they are concentrated in \"combat-support\".\n\nIn 1990 and 1991, some 40,000 American military women were deployed during the Gulf War operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm; however, no women served in combat. A policy enacted in 1994 prohibited women from assignment to ground combat units below the brigade level.\n\nThe proportion of female military personnel varies internationally; for example, it is approximately 3% in India, 10% in the UK, 15% in France, 13% in Sweden, 16% in the US, 15.3% in Canada, and 27% in South Africa. While a marginal percentage of women are reported in military service globally, estimates following the increasing trend of military women capped predictions at about 10% for 1980. As expressed by the current percentages, these numbers have not risen much past that, with the exception of South Africa. Many state armed forces that recruit women continue to bar them from ground close combat roles (roles that would require them to kill at close quarters). This practice preserves male domination within militaries. In limiting female entry, militaries have maintained their characteristic brutal masculinity. Compared with male personnel and female civilians, female personnel face substantially higher risks of sexual harassment and sexual violence, according to British, Canadian and US research. Not only have women been left unprotected, but the major cause of PTSD experienced by women is identified as military sexual trauma (MST). The male experience of PTSD derives from that of combat trauma.\n\nSome nations allow female soldiers to serve in certain combat arms positions. Others exclude them for various reasons including physical demands and privacy policies. Among the NATO nations, and as of the mid-1970s, women were able to attain military status in the following countries: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Non-conscription countries, notably the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada are where the highest levels of female military presences were achieved. Canada is marked as particularly progressive in its early implementation of gender equality practices. A rise in the call for equal opportunity coupled with the decline of able-bodied men willing to enter military service coaxed countries to reform policies toward female inclusion. With the opening of submarine service in 2000, women now had free rein to enlist in any kind of military service.\n\nThe United States military opens all positions to women. Units such as Special Forces require members to meet extraordinary requirements, and no females have met them in some units.\n\nWomen have not historically been required to register for Selective Services; however, Federal Judge Gray Miller ruled on February 2, 2019 that an all male draft is unconstitutional. Unless Congress acts first, this challenge to the constitution could go to the United States Supreme Court. The issue was brought when Marc Angelucci sued the Selective Service on behalf of the National Coalition for Men. Currently the Federal Judge's challenge to the constitution has yet to be addressed.\n\nWomen have been involved in the U.S. military since 1775, originally in the civilian fields of nursing, laundering, mending clothing and cooking.\n\nDeborah Sampson was one of the first women to enlist while disguised as a man. She was unhappy with her limited role in the American Revolution. She served in a light infantry unit, fighting in many battles. Injuries put her in a hospital where her secret was discovered. Her commanding officer, General John Paterson, honorably discharged her and thanked her for her service.\n\nMany women contributed to the Civil War, whether it was through nursing, spying or physically fighting on the battlefield. An example of this is seen through Belle Royd. She began her career as a spy and messenger at the young age of 17. By the time she had become 20, she became quite famous in the United States in which people called her the Cleopatra of the Confederacy. As a spy, she provided confederate leaders with valuable information. She was arrested multiple times and put into prison. Eventually, she was banished from federal soil and was told she would receive a death sentence if she were caught on federal soil again.\nThose who fought in the war, disguised themselves as males, and went by men's aliases. It wasn't extremely difficult for women to conceal their true identities because soldiers showered separately and were fully clothed the majority of the time. In addition, both men and women would join the army with no previous military experience, so their training was very similar and the women would not stand out.\nThe most common way for women to be discovered was through injury. For instance, in 1861, Mary Owens enlisted into the Union Army disguised as the \"brother\" of William Evans, who was actually the love of her life. They could not stand to be separated. Her job was to deliver handwritten messages to commanders on the battlefield so that she would avoid combat. After her lover was killed in battle, Mary decided to avenge his death by fighting in the battlefield. She received a massive gash on her forehead for which she was sent to the hospital for treatment. It was during this moment that her female identity was revealed and she was discharged from the military. Those who were discovered would either be sent home or faced with punishment. However, Mary was warmly welcomed back into her town.\nOther disguised were often uncovered by chance. Sarah Collins was a strong woman who believed she could do the job of a male soldier. Her brother, who was also a soldier, assisted her in disguising as a man by cutting her hair short and dressing her up in men's apparel. Unfortunately, her disguise was not perfect as her true identity was uncovered in the way she properly placed her shoe's that was unlike a male's method of placing shoes. Sarah was then sent home while her brother remained fighting.\nIt is difficult for historians to accurately estimate the true number of women who fought in the war because of their disguise and aliases, as well as their desire of discretion. Women joined the fray of the Civil War for similar reasons as men: the promise of a steady wage, innate sense of patriotism, or for the thrill of an adventure. Some women would even follow their loved ones into battle.\n\nIn 1917 Loretta Walsh became the first woman to enlist as a woman. A 1948 law made women a permanent part of the military services. In 1976, the first group of women were admitted into a U.S. military academy. Approximately 16% of the 2013 West Point class consisted of women.\n\nIn 1990 and 1991, some 40,000 American military women were deployed during the Gulf War operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm; however, no women served in combat. A policy enacted in 1994 prohibited women from assignment to ground combat units below the brigade level.\n\nUntil 1993, 67 percent of the positions in the Army were open to women.\n\nIn 2013, 15.6 percent of the Army's 1.1 million soldiers, including National Guard And Reserve, were female, serving in 95 percent of occupations. As of 2017 78 percent of the positions in the Army are open to women. In the U.S. Air Force, 99% of career fields are open to women, with the only exceptions Special Tactics Officer, Combat Control, Special Operations Weather Technician, Combat Rescue Officer, Pararescue and Tactical Air Control Party.\n\nIn January 2013, the US ended the policy of \"no women in units that are tasked with direct combat\".\n\nIn 2013 female US Army soldiers enrolled in a training course designed by Combined Joint Task Force Paladin, specifically designed for Female Engagement Team members. The course was intended to train female soldiers for tasks such as unexploded ordnance awareness, biometrics, forensics, evidence collection, tactical questioning, vehicle and personnel searches and homemade explosive devices.\n\nBy May 2015, none of the nineteen women vying to become the first female Army Rangers had passed Ranger School. Eleven of the nineteen dropped out in the first four days. Of the remaining eight who failed in the next step, three were given the option to. Two graduated in August 2015. A third graduated in October 2015.\n\nIn April 2015 after two-and-a-half-year period in which the Marine Corps' Infantry Officer Course became gender-integrated for research, ended without a single female graduate. The final two participants failed the initial Combat Endurance Test.\n\nIn 2016 all combat jobs opened to women.\n\nWomen have been injured, killed, and awarded high honors. Two women received the Silver Star: Sergeant Leigh Ann Hester in 2005 and Army Specialist Monica Lin Brown in 2007 for their actions in combat. Over 10,000 combat action badges were awarded to women who served in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nA 2015 Marine Corps study found that women in a unit created to assess female combat performance were significantly injured twice as often as men, less accurate with infantry weapons and not as good at removing wounded troops from the battlefield.\n\nThe study assessed a nine-month experiment at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, and Twentynine Palms, California. About 400 Marines, including 100 women, volunteered to participate.\n\nMale squads, teams, and crews demonstrated better performance on 93 of 134 tasks evaluated (69 percent) than units with women in them. Male units were faster while completing tactical movements in combat situations, especially in units with large \"crew-served\" weapons such as heavy machine guns and mortars. Male infantry squads had better accuracy than squads with women in them, with \"a notable difference between genders for every individual weapons system\" used by infantry rifleman units. The M4 carbine, M27 infantry automatic rifle and M203 single-shot grenade launcher were assessed.\n\nMale Marines who had not received infantry training were more accurate than women who had. In removing wounded troops from the battlefield, \"notable differences in execution times were found between all-male and gender-integrated groups\".\n\nUnit cohesion was lower in mixed gender units. Many female soldiers reported that the way that they are viewed by male soldiers is often detrimental to their participation. For instance, female soldiers are often labelled as \"either standoffish or a slut\". In order to avoid such labels, female soldiers have to spend time with fellow soldiers strategically, without spending too much time with any one of them. This approach often has an isolating effect. In several instances, women were considered less skilled than male soldiers, so were not given opportunities to complete tasks for which they were qualified.\n\nAccording to Lieutenant colonel Dave Grossman, author of \"On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society\", Israeli soldiers reacted with uncontrollable protectiveness and aggression after seeing a woman wounded. Further, Islamic militants rarely, if ever, surrender to female soldiers, lessening the IDF's ability to take prisoners. Iraqi and Afghan civilians are often not intimidated by female soldiers. However, in socially conservative environments, female combat soldiers can search female civilians, while children and women are more likely to talk to female soldiers than to male soldiers.\n\nOne 2009 report concluded that military women were three times more likely to be raped than civilians; and that women soldiers in Iraq were more likely to be attacked by another soldier than by an insurgent. In 1988, the first military-wide sexual harassment survey found that 64% of military women had been subjected to some form of sexual harassment. The most affected were Native-Americans, followed by Hispanics and African-Americans.\n\nU.S. Senator Martha McSally, an Arizona Republican, said during a Senate meeting on sexual assault in the military that she was raped by a superior officer in the U.S. Air Force. McSally was the first female combat pilot in the U.S. Air Force. She said that she never reported it because so many people did not trust the system, blamed herself, was ashamed and confused, thought she was strong but felt powerless.\n\nSexual assault is more likely to occur in the military than in the civilian population. One in four active-duty female military personnel will be sexually assaulted. The military has a Code Of Justice which defines sexual assault: rape, aggravated assault, abusive sexual assault, nonconsensual sodomy (forced oral or anal sex), or attempts to commit these acts.\n\nAll of these acts are punishable by military law which begins by the victim going forward to their commander. It is then their job to make an inquiry on the perpetrator, however they also have the right to dismiss the claims. They can also the right to take non-judicial punishment or take it to high authority. If the perpetrator's punishment can go from dismissal, to dishonorable discharge to confinement in military prison. If found with the crime of rape the perpetrator can carry a lifetime of imprisonment to in extreme cases even execution. When women went to report their sexual assault 83% of the victims stated that their experiences with military legal personnel made them reluctant to seek further help.\n\nMany victims in the military describe the response to and aftermath of sexual assault as more painful than the assault itself because of the unspoken \"code of silence\", which implies that women should keep quiet about their assault and not come forward to take action. Women expect that little will be done, so most cases go unreported. When they are reported and taken to court only ten percent of cases have the perpetrator charged for their crimes, which is a reason women won't come forward as they know little will come from it.\n\nFemale soldiers have developed several techniques for avoiding sexual assault \"including: (1) relying on support networks [buddy systems], (2) capitalizing on their status (associated with rank, age, time spent in military, or prior deployment experience); and, (3) masking femininity through clothing to minimize violence exposure and to keep themselves and others safe during military service\". Such strategies leave the burden of addressing the problem on potential victims. Conversely, in many units, soldiers pair off as \"buddies\" who watch out for each other. In mostly male units, females buddy with males who then often becomes excessively protective, reducing the female's agency.\n\nA lawsuit seeks redress for military plaintiffs who claim to have been subjected to sexual assault. \"The Invisible War\" addresses this lawsuit and topic.\n\nSexual assault leads to many health problems for women in the military such as anxiety disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, substance abuse, binge eating, dissociation and memory impairment, suicidal and parasuicidal behavior, sexual dysfunction and dissatisfaction, poor self-esteem, and personality disorders, such as borderline personality disorder. It also takes a toll on their physical health and have reported having menstrual complications, headaches, back pain, gastrointestinal pain.\n\nAll of these factors make it hard for women to stay in the military, in women it is the leading cause for early leave of the armed forces. Once leaving the military though women have a hard time reintegrating back into society and can end up homeless. It is so debilitating for women in the military because most of their perpetrates are people they work and live with, from peers to a supervisor and higher above. This close relationship creates a new type of trauma as the victim is forced to see them every day and creates an overall lack of trust in people.\n\nThey more often fail to complete college, and generally earn incomes less than $25,000. Their work can involve frequent interactions with their attacker, and damages trust in the institution. Perpetrators are typically in a higher position have the job to protect the woman, increasing trauma.\n\nUpdated military training focuses on bystander interventions and the role of consent in sexual activity, emphasizing the responsibility of male soldiers. Some female soldiers assume the classically male role of \"protector\". This works to change women's \"responsibility for preventing rape\" and requires that male soldiers acknowledge their responsibility to engage with female soldiers in all activities.\n\nIn 1985 the Royal Norwegian Navy became the first navy in the world to permit female personnel to serve in submarines. The first female submarine commander was Captain Solveig Krey aboard the first Kobben class submarine on 11 September 1995. The Danish Navy allowed women on submarines in 1988, the Swedish Navy in 1989, followed by the Royal Australian Navy in 1998, Canada in 2000 and Spain.\n\nOn April 29, 2010, the United States Navy authorized women to serve aboard submarines. Previously, objections such as the need for separate accommodation and facilities (estimates that modifying submarines to accommodate women would cost $300,000 per bunk versus $4,000 per bunk on aircraft carriers) had prevented the change. The Navy stated that larger SSGN and SSBN submarines had more available space and could accommodate female officers with little/no modification. Qualified female candidates with the desire to serve were available. (Women then represented 15 percent of active duty sailors and were earning about half of all science and engineering bachelor's degrees.)\n\nIn May 2014, it was announced that three women had become the UK Royal Navy's first female submariners.\n\nOn November 15, 2017, the first Argentinian female submarine officer Eliana Krawczyk, disappeared in the Atlantic Ocean after the Argentinean Navy lost contact with \"ARA San Juan\" submarine after a reported failure in the electric system. As one of the 44 crew members lost at sea, Krawczyk was honoured by the country's Jewish community as \"La Reina De Los Mares\" on International Women's Day in 2018.\n\nOn 4 July 2017, after two years of training, four female officers boarded a French SSBN for France's first seventy-day mixed gender patrol. The next generation of French submarines is designed to welcome women.\n\nWomen are expected to join submarine crews in the Royal Netherlands Navy in 2019, with the addition of shower doors and changing-room curtains.\n\nIn 2020, Risa Takenouchi became the first female student to enroll in Japan's MSDF Submarine Training Center, following the overturning of restriction of women submariners.\n\nA 2008 study found that female cadets saw military training as an \"opportunity to be strong, assertive and skillful\" and saw such training \"as an escape from some of the negative aspects of traditional femininity\". The female cadets also believed that the ROTC program was \"gender-blind\" and \"gender-neutral\". The study claims that female cadets \"were hyper-vigilant about their status as women performing tasks traditionally seen as men's work and often felt that they had to constantly prove they were capable.\"\n\nThe study quoted one female cadet: \"in the Navy the joke is that a woman in the Navy is either a bitch, a slut or a lesbian, and \"none of them are good categories to fall into\", and if you are stern with your people then you are a bitch, but if you're a guy and stern people are like, wow, I respect him for being a good leader.\"\n\n84 percent of cadets said they did not want a military career as it would interfere with marriage and raising children.\n\nA 2009 study examined the attitudes of West Point cadets, Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets, and non-military-affiliated students from civilian colleges toward a variety of military roles. Cadets were less approving of assigning women to certain military jobs than others.\n\nAs of 2018 only two women have completed the United States Marine's Infantry Officer Course, while in 2016 86% of women failed the Marines' combat jobs test.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947788", "title": "Michie Mee", "text": "Michie Mee\n\nMichelle McCullock (born November 1, 1970), better known by her stage name Michie Mee, is a Canadian rapper and actress. Canada's first notable female MC, she is considered a national hip-hop pioneer.\n\nMcCullock was born in Kingston, Jamaica, later moving to Toronto, Ontario at a young age, and was raised in the city's Jane Street area, as well as the Jane and Finch neighbourhood. She began performing professionally at age 14. In 1985, during a concert in Toronto, Boogie Down Productions introduced her to the audience and she performed on stage. Michie Mee later teamed up with DJ L.A. Luv (Phillip Gayle) and formed the duo Michie Mee and L.A. Luv. The duo was featured on the 1987 Canadian hip hop compilation \"Break'n Out\", which was produced by KRS-One and Scott La Rock of Boogie Down Productions.\n\nThe duo's first single, \"Elements of Style,\" made an impact in the United States, and it signed with First Priority/Atlantic Records in 1988. In the process, Michie Mee became the first Canadian MC to sign a record deal with a major American label. The same year, the duo was featured on the compilation \"\", appearing on the tracks \"Victory Is Calling\" and \"On This Mic\", which were produced by Howard Hughes, Maximum 60 & engineered by Walter Sobczak who would several years later ask Michie Mee to record and perform with Raggadeath. \"Victory Is Calling\" also featured MC Lyte.\n\nIn 1990 she collaborated on the one-off single \"Can't Repress the Cause\", a plea for greater inclusion of hip hop music in the Canadian music scene, with Dance Appeal, a supergroup of Toronto-area musicians that included Devon, Maestro Fresh Wes, Dream Warriors, B-Kool, Lillian Allen, Eria Fachin, HDV aka 'Pimp of the Microphone', Dionne, Thando Hyman, Carla Marshall, Messenjah, Jillian Mendez, Lorraine Scott, Lorraine Segato, Self Defense, Leroy Sibbles, Zama and Thyron Lee White.\n\nIn 1991, the duo released its debut album, \"Jamaican Funk—Canadian Style\", which incorporated dancehall reggae music and spawned the single \"Jamaican Funk.\". Over 60,000 copies of the album were sold in the U.S. and it was nominated for a Juno Award in 1992.\n\nAfter Michie Mee ran into trouble with the law, the duo broke up. L.A. Luv later joined the group Dream Warriors.\n\nAfter starting a solo career and opening shows for artists such as Salt-n-Pepa, Sinéad O'Connor, and Judy Mowatt, she became a founding member of the alternative rock band Raggadeath, which had a Canadian chart hit in 1995 with \"One Life.\" In the late 1990s, Michie Mee began an acting career. She made her first film appearance in 1999's \"In Too Deep\". In 2000, she starred in the CBC Television series \"Drop the Beat\", playing a rapper named Divine. Later that year, she released a comeback album, \"The First Cut Is the Deepest\", which spawned the single \"Don't Wanna Be Your Slave\" (featuring Esthero). The single earned her another Juno nomination.\n\nIn 2004, Michie Mee joined a group of local artists (including Maestro, Thrust, and Toya Alexis among others) and formed the Peace Prophets. The group released the charity single \"Drop the Chrome\" in association with radio station FLOW 93.5. The same year, she appeared in the film \"My Baby's Daddy\".\n\nIn 2009, she released the single \"Say About Us.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947790", "title": "Loch Morlich", "text": "Loch Morlich\n\nLoch Morlich (Scottish Gaelic, \"Loch Mhùrlaig\") is a freshwater loch in the Badenoch and Strathspey area of Highland, Scotland near Aviemore. The loch is home to a watersports centre with kayaking, sailing and windsurfing among the activities available. There is also a yacht club and cycling routes around the loch. The loch is at the foot of the Cairngorm mountains, just a few miles from Aviemore. As seen on Game of Thrones Season 5.\n\nLong stretches of its shoreline are formed of sandy beaches. In 2009 these beaches received a Seaside Award by the Keep Scotland Beautiful (KSB) campaign, the first time that this had been given to a fresh water loch. At 300 metres above sea level it also became the highest beach to be given this award.\n\nWhen examined closely the sand of these beaches contains large amounts of broken glass. However, this glass does not come from careless tourists discarding bottles irresponsibly, but is in fact left over from the Second World War when the area around Loch Morlich was used as a commando school. In particular it was used as a training area for the Kompani Linge (the Norwegian Independent (army) Company, trained by the British Special Operations Executive) because of the close resemblance of the area, both in landscape and climate, to Norway. A memorial to the Kompani Linge can be found outside the Glenmore Forest Park visitor centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947810", "title": "John Cameron Swayze", "text": "John Cameron Swayze\n\nJohn Cameron Swayze (April 4, 1906 – August 15, 1995) was an American news commentator and game show panelist during the 1940s and 1950s who later became best known as a product spokesman.\n\nBorn in Wichita, Kansas, Swayze was the son of a wholesale drug salesman. He attended schools in Atchison and Culver Military Academy before enrolling at the University of Kansas in Lawrence. He left the university before graduating, opting instead for work in radio. There he was a fraternity brother of the subsequent film and television actor Frank Wilcox. \n\nSwayze first sought to work as an actor, but his activity on Broadway ended when acting roles became scarce following the Wall Street Crash of 1929.\n\nSwayze returned to the Midwest and worked for the \"Kansas City Journal-Post\" as a reporter and as radio editor. While in the latter position, on September 27, 1933, he began the radio program \"Stranger Than Fiction\". He also worked in sports, writing about and broadcasting football games.\n\nFrom there he graduated to radio, doing news updates for Kansas City's KMBC in 1940 and, reportedly, an experimental early television newscast. In Kansas City, Swayze broadcast news items prepared by United Press Kansas City bureau overnight editor Walter Cronkite. In 1946, Swayze went to Hollywood, where NBC hired him as director of news and special events for its western division.\n\nDuring 1948, Swayze provided voiceover work for the \"Camel Newsreel Theatre\", an early television news program that broadcast Movietone News newsreels.\n\nAt the same time, Swayze proposed and obtained a radio quiz program, \"Who Said That?\". Swayze was a panelist on the radio version, which lasted two years, and on the television version of the program, which was broadcast on NBC from 1948 to 1955. In the series, celebrities tried to determine the speaker of quotations taken from recent news reports. \n\nNBC, meanwhile, made Swayze the host of its national political convention coverage in 1948, the first commercial coverage ever by television. (NBC Television did broadcast the Republican National Convention from Philadelphia during 1940 on a noncommercial, semi-experimental basis, seen in just three cities: Philadelphia, New York City and Schenectady, NY).\n\nIn October 1948, Swayze was a permanent panel member of the quiz show \"Who Said That?\" and was referred to as the anchorman in what may be the first usage of this term on television. \n\nSwayze was chosen in 1949 to host NBC's first television newscast, the 15-minute \"Camel News Caravan\". He read items from the news wires and periodically interviewed newsmakers, but he is remembered best for reporting on the Korean War nightly and for his two catchphrases: \"Let's go hopscotching the world for headlines\" and his signoff: \"That's the story, folks—glad we could get together. And now, this is John Cameron Swayze saying good night.\" Veteran broadcaster David Brinkley wrote in a memoir that Swayze got the job because of his ability to memorize scripts, which allowed him to recite the news when the primitive teleprompters of the time failed to work properly.\n\nIn early 1955, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, maker of Camel cigarettes, reduced its sponsorship of the program to three days a week. Chrysler's Plymouth division sponsored the other days, and on those days the program was labeled the \"Plymouth News Caravan\". Eventually, Swayze's almost manic style seemed frivolous compared to that of Douglas Edwards, whose rival show on CBS, \"Douglas Edwards with the News\", generally beat Swayze in the national ratings as time went on. In 1956, Swayze was dismissed in favor of the new team of Chet Huntley and David Brinkley. \"The Huntley-Brinkley Report\" soon became the nation's top-rated television newscast; Edwards was replaced during 1962 by Walter Cronkite.\n\nHe also hosted and narrated from 1955 to 1957 the long-running television drama series \"The Armstrong Circle Theatre\" (1950–1963) after leaving NBC News as well as a daytime television game show for ABC, \"Chance for Romance\" and the syndicated travel program \"It's a Wonderful World\" (1963). He was also a substitute host on \"To Tell the Truth\" (1956-1968).\n\nBy that time Swayze—despite a brief anchoring of an evening newscast for the American Broadcasting Company—was widely known for starring in a series of television commercials for Timex in which he recited the tagline \"It takes a licking and keeps on ticking.\" In one of these commercials, performed live, he strapped the watch to the propellor blades of an outboard motor, lowered it into a tank of water and ran the motor for a few seconds; but when he pulled the motor back out and tipped up the blades, the watch was missing.\n\nSwayze performed in Timex commercials that were mock newscasts before delivering the catchphrase at the end of the commercials. Swayze did the Timex commercials for over two decades. He also appeared in a Volvo advertisement, driven in an early 1970s two-door model on a muddy racetrack by a professional rally driver.\n\nSwayze also appeared in commercials for Studebaker promoting the automobile company's 1963 model line. He also appeared in a 1984 commercial for radio station WHTZ in New York City, which was broadcast in other markets promoting different radio stations.\n\nHe was satirized by comics Bill Buchanan and Dickie Goodman, whose first \"break-in\" novelty record (a mock newscast spliced with current rock and roll music), \"The Flying Saucer,\" satirized him as reporter John Cameron Cameron (played by Goodman). Swayze is referenced in a lyric of Allan Sherman's novelty song \"My Grandfather's Watch,\" a parody of \"My Grandfather's Clock\" by Henry Clay Work. \n\nIn 1980, Ray Stevens recorded a novelty song titled \"The Watch Song,\" in which his character, in a bar, is approached by a cowboy whose wife he's been seeing and who challenges him to a fight. Outside, in the course of the fight, the cowboy stomps on the watch and busts it beyond repair. In the refrain, Ray's character calls out to John Cameron Swayze (who, in a series of 1960s commercials, would subject a Timex watch to a grueling physical test, then show it still to be ticking away) to tell him how crazy it sounds to say that the cowboy had busted a watch that had been shot at, dipped in beer, and tied to a motorboat and dragged on a beach. At the sight of his busted watch, Ray's character freaks out and beats the cowboy to death.\n\nSwayze made periodic cameo appearances in movies beginning with 1957's \"Face in the Crowd\" and the first scene of 1968’s “The Boston Strangler,” a newscast about Boston’s parade celebrating the feats of the John Glenn’s Mercury orbit.\n\nSwayze was fairly frequently mentioned on the television series \"The Golden Girls\". In episode 805 of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\", when the watch of a character in the movie \"The Thing That Couldn't Die\" is found in a traderat's nest, Tom Servo exclaims: \"John Cameron Traderat\".\n\nIn the 1940s scene of the 1994–present version of Walt Disney's Carousel of Progress at Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom, John extols the virtues of television, stating \"I kind of like it, you know? A guy named John Cameron Swayze gives us all the news and then they have all this singing and dancing. A lot of fluff, but it's fun.\"\n\nIn 1950 Swayze received the Alfred I. duPont Award.\n\nSwayze is the first person shown in the montage of former anchorpersons that currently begins the \"NBC Nightly News\".\n\nSwayze was the son of Jesse Ernest Swayze and Christine Cameron, aka Camerona (cited by some sources). His father's name is of Norman French origin and dates back to Dorset, England in the early 17th century. He married Beulah Mae Estes in 1935. He died in Sarasota, Florida, on August 15, 1995. He was survived by his widow and two children, John Cameron Swayze, Jr., of Bedford, New York, who anchored weekend news on WCBS Newsradio 880 in New York until October 2010 (under the name Cameron Swayze), and Suzanne Swayze Patrick of Alexandria, Virginia; six grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.\n\nSwayze and the actor-brothers Patrick Swayze and Don Swayze were sixth cousins once removed. Both John and Patrick's father were descendants by seven generations of Judge Samuel Swayze (March 20, 1688/1689-May 11, 1759) and his wife, Penelope Horton (1689/1690-1746). Judge Swayze was the son of Joseph Swasey and his wife Mary Betts. Mary Betts was the daughter of Captain Richard Betts and his wife, Joanna Chamberlayne. Other noteworthy relations descending from the Betts or Swayze lineages are actors William Holden and Tom Hulce, and Evgenia Citkowitz, wife of actor Julian Sands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947826", "title": "Christopher Langan", "text": "Christopher Langan\n\nChristopher Michael Langan (born March 25, 1952) is an American horse rancher and author, who has scored extremely high on multiple IQ tests. Langan's IQ has been estimated on ABC's \"20/20\" to be between 195 and 210, and he has been described as \"the smartest man in America\" as well as \"the smartest man in the world\" by some journalists.\n\nLangan has developed a \"theory of the relationship between mind and reality\" which he calls the \"Cognitive-Theoretic Model of the Universe\" (CTMU).\n\nChristopher Michael Langan was born in 1952 in San Francisco, California but spent most of his childhood in Montana. His mother, Mary Langan-Hansen (\"née\" Chappelle, 1932 – 2014), was the daughter of a wealthy shipping executive but was cut off from her family. His biological father, Melvin Letman , died or disappeared before he was born. Owing to a combination of severed family ties and an absent father figure for her children, Mary was often pressured to adopt an economically itinerant lifestyle on behalf of her four children. This meant frequently living in conditions of violence and extreme poverty.\n\nDuring elementary school, Langan repeatedly skipped grades, and was tormented by his peers. Langan reports being brutally beaten by his stepfather, Jack Langan, who denied this. At the age of twelve years, Langan began weight training, which he says was motivated by the desire to fight back against bullies, eventually ejecting his stepfather from the household.\n\nLangan attended high school, but spent his last years engaged mostly in independent study, due to the relative indifference of his teachers in accommodating his pleas concerning his increasing need and capacity to absorb more advanced material. While left to his own studies, he reports to have started teaching himself \"advanced math, physics, philosophy, Latin, and Greek\". According to Cynthia McFadden from ABC's 20/20, he earned a perfect score on the SAT (pre-1995 scale) despite taking a nap during the test.\n\nLangan attended Reed College and later on Montana State University. Faced with severe financial and transportation problems, however, and believing that he could teach his professors more than they could teach him, he dropped out. He took a string of labor-intensive jobs for some time, and by his mid-40s had been a construction worker, cowboy, Forest Service Ranger, farmhand, and, for over twenty years, a bouncer on Long Island.\n\nLangan was also approached and contracted by Disney Research, and he previously worked for the technology company Virtual Logistix. Langan said he developed a \"double-life strategy\": doing his job and exchanging pleasantries during the day, then coming home to develop his Cognitive-Theoretic Model of the Universe (CTMU).\n\nLangan was profiled in Malcom Gladwell's bestselling 2008 book \"Outliers\", which discusses the various factors needed for a person to achieve success. Langan was discussed alongside J. Robert Oppenheimer, who also was highly intelligent and faced obstacles in his college years. In the book, Gladwell highlighted the contrasts between Oppenheimer, who went on to lead the Manhattan Project, and Langan, who spent most of his years as a bouncer and farmer.\n\nIn 1999, Langan and others formed a non-profit corporation named the Mega Foundation to \"create and implement programs that aid in the development of severely gifted individuals and their ideas\". The organization is designated for those with IQs of 164 or above.\n\nLangan told \"Muscle & Fitness\" magazine that \"you cannot describe the universe completely with any accuracy unless you're willing to admit that it's both physical and mental in nature\". He says that the CTMU \"explains the connection between mind and reality, therefore the presence of cognition and universe in the same phrase\". He calls his proposal \"a true 'Theory of Everything', a cross between John Archibald Wheeler's 'Participatory Universe' and Stephen Hawking's 'Imaginary Time' theory of cosmology\". In conjunction with his ideas, Langan has stated: \"You can prove the existence of God, the soul and an afterlife, using mathematics.\"\n\nWhen reviewing Langan's CTMU, American artificial intelligence researcher Ben Goertzel said, \"Langan’s ideas are well worth reading and thinking about.\" He also says that the theory \"doesn’t really justify anything resembling conventional ([i.e.] anthropomorphic) religious 'Gods\". The CTMU was also reviewed by computer scientist Mark Chu-Carroll, who argued that the theory is an \"ill-defined variation of naive set theory\". Journalist Justin Ward in \"The Baffler\" also wrote that it \"isn't particularly scientific—or original\", saying it was rather a repackaging of intelligent design.\n\nLangan's support of conspiracy theories, including the 9/11 Truther movement and the white genocide conspiracy theory, and his opposition to interracial relationships have contributed to him amassing a following among members of the alt-right. Journalists have described some of Langan's Internet posts as racist, and accused him of veiled antisemitism.\n\nIn 2004, Langan moved with his wife Gina (), a clinical neuropsychologist, to northern Missouri, where he owns and operates a horse ranch and undertakes activities for his Mega Foundation. Langan does not have any children, which he describes as a conscious decision based on his \"intellectual ability to foresee the continuation of [his] own chronic low income status and rising affirmative-action discrimination against [him]\".\n\nAlthough his theory implies the existence of God and the afterlife, Langan does not belong to any religious denomination, explaining that he \"can't afford to let logical approach to theology be prejudiced by religious dogma\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1947831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947831", "title": "Edward Pietrzyk", "text": "Edward Pietrzyk\n\nGenerał broni Edward Pietrzyk (born 3 November 1949) is a Polish military officer, diplomat and general in the Polish Army. He is also a former commander-in-chief of the Polish Land Forces.\n\nPietrzyk was born in Rawa Mazowiecka in 1949. In 1971 he graduated from the Military University of Technology (WAT) of Warsaw, after which he served for six years in the 2nd Artillery Brigade. In 1978 he moved to Moscow, where he graduated from the local Military Academy of Artillery. In 1988 became the deputy commander of Polish artillery and rocket forces of the Warsaw Military Area. In 1990, Pietrzyk graduated from the General Staff Academy of the USSR and after two years of service as the deputy chief of operations of the General Staff, he became the chief of the Operational Command of the Polish General Staff. Between 1998 and 2000 he was the deputy commander of the Multinational Corps North East composed of forces of Poland, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia. Between 2000 and September 2006 he has been the commander of the Land Forces of Poland. In 2000 he also graduated from the National War College, Washington D.C.\n\nBetween April 2007 and January 2010, Pietrzyk served as Polish ambassador to Iraq (followed by Stanisław Smoleń). From January 2010 till 2014, Pietrzyk has been serving as Poland's ambassador to North Korea.\n\nOn 3 October 2007, he was wounded by a roadside bomb in a probable assassination attempt in Baghdad. He was flown to a military hospital by a Blackwater Security helicopter. Pietrzyk received burns to about 20 percent of his body, including his air passageways, and was held in an artificial coma to reduce the pain. The United Nations Security Council convened a meeting to condemn this attack.\n"}
{"id": "1947836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947836", "title": "Chagres River", "text": "Chagres River\n\nThe Chagres River (), in central Panama, is the largest river in the Panama Canal's watershed. The river is dammed twice, and the resulting reservoirs—Gatun Lake and Lake Alajuela—form an integral part of the canal and its water system. Although the river's natural course runs northwest to its mouth at the Caribbean Sea, its waters also flow, via the canal's locks, into the Gulf of Panama to the south. The Chagres has the unusual claim of drainage into two oceans.\n\nThe upper Chagres River, its watershed, and the watershed of several tributaries lie within the Chagres National Park, created in 1985 to preserve the habitat and flow of water into the canal. The terrain of the upper Chagres watershed is rugged, with its mountain slopes exceeding 45 degrees in 90 percent of its territory. Some 98 percent of the park consists of old-growth tropical forest.\nThe upper Chagres and its seven tributaries flow into Lake Alajuela (formerly Madden Lake), the reservoir created by the Madden Dam. As these rivers contribute 45 percent of the total water for the canal, the lake is an essential part of the watershed of the canal zone. The lake has a maximum level of above sea level, and can store one third of the canal's annual water requirements for the operation of the locks. Lake Alajuela is not part of the navigational route, so there are fewer restrictions on its water level than for Gatun Lake. Water from the reservoir is also used to generate hydroelectric power and to supply Panama City's fresh water.\n\nAt from the river's mouth lies the Gatun Dam, which created Gatun Lake and provides hydroelectricity. Created in 1913 by the damming of the Chagres River, Gatun Lake is an essential part of the Panama Canal, which forms a water passage between the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean, permitting ship transit in both directions. The lake is essential to the canal's water supply, as it provides the millions of gallons of water at the high level needed for the locks to function correctly. The lake is also part of the navigational canal and provides drinking water for Panama City and Colon.\n\nAt the time it was formed, Gatun Lake was the largest man-made lake in the world. The impassable rainforest around Gatun Lake has been the best defense of the Panama Canal. Today, these areas have endured practically unscathed by human interference and are among the one the few accessible areas where various native Central American animal and plant species can be observed undisturbed in their natural habitat. Barro Colorado Island, which was reserved for scientific study when the lake was formed and is today operated by the Smithsonian Institution, is the largest island on Gatun Lake and renowned internationally. Many of the most important groundbreaking scientific and biological discoveries of the tropical animal and plant kingdom took place here. Gatun Lake encompasses approximately , a vast tropical ecological zone part of the Atlantic Forest Corridor. Eco-tourism on Gatun Lake has become a valuable industry for Panamanians.\n\nAngling is one of the primary recreational pursuits on Gatun Lake. It is believed that the \"Cichla pleiozona\" species of peacock bass was introduced by accident to Gatun Lake by a Panamanian aquarist and doctor in 1958. Locally called \"Sargento,\" these bass are not a native game fish of Panama but originate from the Amazon, Rio Negro, and Orinoco River basins of South America, where they are called \"Tucanare\" or \"Pavon\" and are considered a premier game fish. Since 1958, the \"Cichla pleiozona\" species has flourished and become the dominant game fish in Gatun Lake. It hits topwater lures, subsurface lures imitating bait fish, and a variety of fly patterns, and when hooked they fight energetically. They are unusual for preferring to feed during daylight hours.\n\nThe Spanish commander Diego Cueto and his helmsman, Pedro de Umbria, visited the region in 1506. The Chagres River was explored in 1527 by Hernando de la Serna, who founded the town of Chagres at its mouth and built the fortress of San Lorenzo. Goods were transported on foot from Panama City to the town of Cruces on the rio Chagres, and from there by sailboats on the river all the way to its mouth. This path, called Camino de Cruces, was very popular until the 18th century.\n\nThe pirate Henry Morgan traveled the Chagres River to attack Panama City in 1670–71.\n\nNot much attention was focused on the river until the late 19th century, this time as part of the planning for construction of the Panama Canal. The Chagres River is the Panama Canal's chief source of water. \n\nThe river's upper basin is covered by dense tropical forests. To protect that ecosystem, Panama created Chagres National Park in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947845", "title": "Institut Catholique de Paris", "text": "Institut Catholique de Paris\n\nThe Institut Catholique de Paris (ICP), known in English as the Catholic University of Paris (and in Latin as Universitas catholica Parisiensis), is a private university located in Paris, France.\n\nThe Institut Catholique de Paris was founded in 1875, under the name of the Université Catholique de Paris by Maurice Le Sage d'Hauteroche d'Hulst.\n\nThe school settled on the site of the former convent of the Carmelites, however the premises were not well adapted. developed a new project for the site; however, due to a lack of sufficient funds, he decided to renovate some of the old buildings instead of destroying them. The first phase of the renovation took place between 1894 and 1897. Following the French law establishing the separation of the church and state, ownership of the premises was given to the state. In 1927, the premises were repurchased by the institute, allowing the second phase of the renovation to take place between 1929 and 1930, followed by a third phase between 1932 and 1933.\n\nThe Neogothlic architectural style is prevalent on the campus.\n\nICP is a non-for-profit association pursuant to the French Law of 1901, recognized as promoting public interest, in 1941.\n\nThe current rector is Bishop Philippe Bordeyne, who has been the rector of ICP since 2011.\n\nIn 2017, there were 10,000 students attending ICP. This was also the year that ICP inaugurated its renovated campus.\n\nThe university is known for its liberal theology and offers bachelor, master and doctoral degrees in various faculties. The Faculté de Théologie is a pontifical institution with the canonical authorization to educate men for the Catholic priesthood. The Faculté de Lettres is a school of the humanities with no explicit religious orientation. During the summer, the institute opens the Faculté de Lettres to international students for month-long terms.\n\nProfessors at the university are recruited from sacred (i.e., theology, canon law, etc.) and secular disciplines (e.g., literature, philosophy, education, social sciences, economics).\n\nThe Institut Catholic de Paris belongs to the European Higher Education Area and follows the LMD system. ICP delivers state degrees recognized at the National and European levels (bachelor, master and doctorate degrees), canonical diplomas as well as its own diplomas. The majority of degrees and diplomas awarded by the Catholic University of Paris are state-authorized diplomas, as the university is certified to issue them by the Ministry of Education. Canonical degrees are awarded in the name of the Holy See and are the result of a prescribed course of study in the ecclesiastical faculties, such as theology and canon law.\n\nThe university charges tuition, because the state does not pay the wages of professors at Catholic institutions of higher learning, as authorized under the . The institute receives a state subsidy which covers 34% of its financial needs. The amount of the subsidy, derived from the Ministry of National Education, is independently fixed each year by the government within the framework of the national budget, without any obligation or contract of any kind.\n\nThe university belongs to the network of the UDESCA (Union of the Catholic Higher Educational Establishments) which includes the five French Catholic institutes - Paris, Lille, Lyon, Angers and Toulouse - and is a member of the International Federation of Catholic Universities (FIUC), comprising 200 Catholic universities throughout the world.\n\nThe premises of ICP are shared between various faculties and schools, and include multiple libraries. They also include a seminary university, the Seminary of Carmes, and a church: Saint-Joseph-des-Carmes.\n\nThe Musée Edouard Branly, located within the institute, preserves the laboratory of physics professor and noted radio pioneer Édouard Branly, developer of the first practical radio receiver device, the Branly coherer, who also coined the term \"radio\". The Institute also houses the Bible and Holy Land Museum.\n\nIn 2017, the campus was renovated allowing the school to gain 1,000 m2 in additional space, which includes an amphitheater with a capacity for 400 people.\n\nThe main library, known as Bibliothèque de Fels, is home to 600,000 volumes including 60,000 ancient volumes and 800 manuscripts. The library is mostly due to donations made by Edmonds de Fel. Other libraries on campus include the Jean-de-Vernon Library of Theology and Biblical Sciences, the Library of the Faculty of Canon Law which publishes L'Année Canonique (The Canon Year). In addition to the Documentation Center of the Institute of Education, and the Library of the French Institute of Byzantine Studies.\n\nFounded in 1948, ILCF (Institute of French Language and Culture) of ICP has offered classes to French language learners for over 60 years. ILCF has been awarded the “Qualité FLE” certification by 3 public ministries. Ensuring the quality of teaching French as a Foreign Language. ICP has developed mobility partnerships with more than 135 universities in 35 countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947846", "title": "Héctor Garza", "text": "Héctor Garza\n\nHéctor Solano Segura (June 12, 1969 – May 26, 2013) was a Mexican professional wrestler, better known by the ring name Héctor Garza. During his career he worked for various major Mexican professional wrestling promotions such as Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Perros del Mal Producciones and, at the time of death, AAA. Garza also worked for several major promotions such as World Championship Wrestling (WCW), the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) in the United States.\n\nSolano was a second-generation wrestler, son of Humberto Garza. His own son, known as El Sultán, also became a professional wrestler after Garza's death. The extended Garza family includes Garza Jr. and Humberto Carrillo (formerly known as Último Ninja). In 2017 Garza Jr. adopted a ring persona similar to that of Solano, paying homage to his uncle's \"rudo\" (\"bad guy\") persona and wrestling style.\n\nAt the time of his death, Garza was in the middle of his second reign with the Mexican National Heavyweight Championship. He had also won the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship, the CMLL World Tag Team Championship three times, the CMLL World Trios Championship five times in CMLL and the IWC World Heavyweight Championship, the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship and the Mexican National Tag Team Championship. He was posthumously inducted in the AAA Hall of Fame.\n\nAfter being trained by his uncle Mario Segura, and Mr. Lince and Blue Fish, Solano made his professional wrestling debut in 1992, using the ring name \"Héctor Garza\", after his father who worked as Humberto Garza. He initially wrestled for \"Federacion Internacional de Lucha Libre\" (FILL; \"International Wrestling Federation\" in Spanish) promotion in Monterrey, Nuevo León. As Garza, his first prominent storyline feud played out in 1993 as he was paired with El Sanguinario (\"The Bloodthirsty One\"), who portrayed a ruthless \"rudo\" (a \"heel character\", those that portray the \"bad guys\" in wrestling), juxtaposed with the young, fan-friendly \"técnico\" (or \"face character\", those who portray the \"good guys\"). On June 6, 1993, Garza won his first \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or \"Bet match\", when he defeated El Sanguinario to force El Sanguinario to be shaved bald as a result. Two months later, Garza defeated Sanguinario once more, this time to win the FILL Light Heavyweight Championship.\n\nAfter his local success in Monterrey, Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) hired him to work nationally instead, joining the world's oldest professional wrestling promotion as part of CMLL's rebuilding after a split that led to the creation of Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). He was put over veteran \"rudos\" like Bestia Salvaje and Satánico in hair matches and Garza quickly became one of the top técnicos in the company. In the following year, he teamed with Dos Caras and La Fiera to win the CMLL World Trios Championship, and lost to Emilio Charles Jr. in the final of the \"La Copa Junior\", a tournament for second-generation wrestlers.\n\nWhen Garza joined AAA, he was also able to work for the US-based World Wrestling Federation (WWF) through AAA's working agreement. His first televised WWF appearance saw him defeat T.L. Hopper on an episode of \"Superstars\". At the 1997 Royal Rumble pay-per-view show Garza teamed up with El Canek and Perro Aguayo to defeat Fuerza Guerrera, Heavy Metal and Jerry Estrada. He worked several more matches for the WWF, with his last appearance for the company taking place on March 10, 1997 where he, Latin Lover and Octagón lost to Pentagón, Heavy Metal and Pierroth on the 200th episode of Monday Night Raw.\n\nIn AAA he often worked as part of a trio known as \"La Maquina del Amor\" (\"The Love Machine\") alongside Heavy Metal and Latin Lover, a group of young, good looking, fan favorites that were very popular with the female fans. All three members of \"La Maquina del Amor\" qualified for the 1997 \"Rey de Reyes\" tournament along with Octagón, which Lain Lover won. Later that year Garza teamed up with Super Nova for the \"Young Stars\" tag team tournament. In the first round the duo defeated May Flowers and Pentagón, but lost to Fuerza Guerra and Mosco de la Merced in the semi-finals.\n\nThe AAA/WWF collaboration ended in mid-1997, which led to many AAA workers wrestling for WWF's rival, World Championship Wrestling (WCW), later in the year. In WCW the young Garza became known for his twirling turnbuckle to floor plancha called the \"corkscrew plancha\". On June 30, 1997 Garza was given his first WCW championship opportunity, as he challenged Steven Regal for the WCW World Television Championship on Monday Nitro, but was booked to lose in less than four minutes. He made his WCW PPV debut at the 1997 Bash at the Beach, where he, Juventud Guerrera and Lizmark Jr. defeated La Parka, Psicosis and Villano IV.\n\nIn the fall of 1997 Garza scored a victory over Scott Hall, one of WCW's most prominent heels. The victory was played off as a \"fluke\" and Hall defeated Garza two weeks later in just over a minute as a follow up to the storyline. When the Latino World Order (lWo) was formed in late 1998 by Eddie Guerrero, Garza joined along with most of the Mexican wrestlers on the WCW, starting a storyline feud with Rey Misterio Jr. as he refused to join the lWo. His last match for WCW took place on October 1, 1999 as Garza and Silver King defeated \"Los Villanos\" (Villano IV and Villano V).\n\nIn late 1999, Garza returned to AAA where he became involved in a long-running storyline feud with Heavy Metal, Latin Lover and Perro Aguayo Jr. that would span several years. On December 26, 1999 Héctor Garza defeated Pirata Morgan to win the IWC World Heavyweight Championship, his first championship reign in AAA. 98 days later, Garza lost the championship back to Pirata Morgan. Two months later Garza defeated Sangre Chicana to win the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship on a show in his home town of Monterrey.\n\nAs part of their ongoing storyline, Garza and Aguayo Jr. teamed up to defeat \"Los Vipers\" (Abismo Negro and Electroshock) to win the Mexican National Tag Team Championship, starting a 61-day reign. Their reign was ended by El Texano and Pirata Morgan on September 8, 2000. The four-way feud led to a \"Lucha de Apuetas\" match between Garza and Heavy Metal as part of AAA's 2001 \"Guerra de Titanes\" PPV. The match saw Garza pin Heavy Metal in the third and deciding fall, forcing Heavy Metal to have all of his hair shaved off.\n\nAfter the 2001 \"Guerra de Titanes\" the feud shifted to focusing on Garza and Latin Lover instead. On May 5, 2002, Garza defeated Latin Lover to win the Mexican National Heavyweight Championship as part of the escalating tension between the two. On November 15, 2002, at that year's \"Guerra de Titanes\" show, Garza, Latin Lover, Perro Aguayo Jr. and Mr. Águila faced off in a steel cage match. Latin Lover defeated Garza, causing him to have his hair shaved off for the first time in his career. On May 5, 2003, he lost the Mexican National Heavyweight Championship to E; Zorro, exactly one year after winning it. On October 26, 2003 Garza lost another \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match to Latin Lover, which turned out to be his last major storyline in AAA.\n\nIn 2004, he returned to the United States for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling during AAA's working agreement with the company. Along with Abismo Negro, Juventud Guerrera, Mr. Águila and later Heavy Metal, \"Team Mexico\" was successful in winning the America's X-Cup. After Team Canada was repackaged, Team Mexico became faces. In June, he returned to CMLL.\n\nWhile the AAA-TNA deal was still in effect, Garza wrestled exclusively in Mexico. In CMLL, he helped Perro Aguayo Jr. adopt a \"heel\" character, becoming one of the \"bad guys\" in wrestling, and became involved in Aguayo's storyline feud with El Hijo del Santo. Eventually, he would help found La Furia del Norte with El Terrible and Tarzan Boy. Teaming with Tarzan and Terrible, La Furia chased after and defeated the CMLL Tríos champions Black Warrior, El Canek and Rayo de Jalisco Jr. Meanwhile, in the United States, the AAA-TNA deal was terminated, which led to TNA to bringing Garza back. He returned for TNA Victory Road 2004, TNA's first three-hour pay-per-view when he won a Twenty Man X-Division Gauntlet. The push continued with a match against NWA World Heavyweight Champion Jeff Jarrett on TNA's weekly TV show.\n\nAfter being deported for drug possession, he returned to working full-time in Mexico for CMLL. He teamed with Perro Aguayo Jr. against Los Capos and became a major part of the new group, Los Perros del Mal along with members of La Furia del Norte, Los Pierroths and \"La Familia de Tijuana\". In August, Pierroth Jr. was ejected from the group and Garza volunteered to face him in a hair vs. hair match, which Garza won. After the Dr. Wagner Jr. vs. Atlantis mask vs. mask match fell through, CMLL decided to go with Héctor Garza and Perro Aguayo Jr. vs. Universo 2000 and Máscara Año 2000 double hair vs. hair match as the main event of the CMLL 72nd Anniversary Show. Three weeks before the show, Garza hit Máscara Año 2000 with a \"\"Martinete\"\" (tombstone piledriver). The match for the anniversary show was changed to a triangle match with Universo 2000 vs. Perro Aguayo Jr. vs. Héctor Garza where the last man to get pinned gets his hair shaved. In the end, Universo pinned Garza with help of a low blow from his brother, Cien Caras, and Pierroth's valet, La Nazi.\n\nIn 2008 Garza began teaming with El Hijo del Fantasma and La Máscara and the trio quickly won the vacant CMLL World Trios Championship when they defeated Blue Panther, Dos Caras Jr. and Místico in the finals of a tournament for the title. The team lost, then regained the trios title to the team of Atlantis, Último Guerrero and Negro Casas. In March 2010 signs of dissention amongst the team began showing as Garza left the ring during a trios match mistakenly thinking that one of his teammates had attacked him. Following this Garza kept insincerely insisting that he was still a \"tecnico\" and that his team was getting along great. Further doubts about Garza's allegiance arose when he teamed up with the \"Rúdo\" Pólvora for the 2010 \"Gran Alternativa\" tournament. The team defeated Sensei and La Máscara in the first round with Garza showing no problems in going after his teammate. They also defeated Rey Cometa and Blue Panther as well as Diamante and La Sombra to qualify for the finals. On the April 30, 2010 Super Viernes Garza and Pólvora won the 2010 \"Gran Alternativa\" when they defeated Delta and Volador Jr. When Garza, La Máscara and Hijo del Fantasma were booked for a CMLL World Trios defense the following week, Garza complained that his partners had agreed to the match without asking him, but swore that he would still be professional about it. During the title defense on the May 7, 2010 Super Viernes Garza attacked both Hijo del Fantasma and La Máscara, allowing \"La Ola Amarillo\" (Hiroshi Tanahashi, Okumura and Taichi) to win the CMLL World Trios Championship, turning full blown \"Rudo\" in the process.\n\nDuring a trios match with the \"Los Invasores\" team of El Alebrije, Histeria and Maniaco going against Garza, Brazo de Plata and Toscano, Garza turned on his teammates and joined \"Los Invasores\". CMLL held a press conference on May 20, 2010, announcing that they would hold a special \"Sin Salida\" event on June 6, 2010, that would center around the \"Los Invasores\" vs. CMLL storyline. During the press conference Olímpico was part of the \"Invasores\" group. It was also announced that Garza and Mr. Águila were the co-leaders of \"Los Invasores\". At the July 16, 2010 Super Viernes Héctor Garza and Mr. Águila defeated the team of La Sombra and Volador Jr. to win the CMLL World Tag Team Championship, Garza's third reign and Mr. Águila's first reign. On November 2, 2010, Garza and Águila lost the CMLL World Tag Team Championship to Dragón Rojo Jr. and Último Guerrero.\n\nOn January 4, 2011, Garza made his debut for New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) at Wrestle Kingdom V in Tokyo Dome, where he and Jushin Thunder Liger were defeated by Máscara Dorada and La Sombra in a tag team match. Garza returned for a tour of New Japan on July 8, 2011. His tour of the promotion concluded on July 18, when he was defeated by CMLL World Middleweight Champion, Jushin Thunder Liger in a non-title match. Upon Garza's return to CMLL, he turned \"technico\" and left \"Los Invasores\". On August 12, Garza defeated Último Guerrero to win the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship for the first time.\n\nOn November 11, 2011, Garza held a press conference, announcing that he had left CMLL and joined Perro Aguyao Jr.'s Perros del Mal Producciones as a member of the \"Perros del Mal\" stable. Before leaving CMLL, Garza handed the World Heavyweight Championship belt back to the promotion. Behind the scenes, Garza had offered to lose the title to El Terrible prior to leaving the promotion, but CMLL refused to allow him to wrestle another match. Garza made his debut for the promotion on November 13, when he ran in to save Perro Aguayo Jr., Damián 666, Halloween and X-Fly from \"Los Psycho Circus\", Nosawa and Zumbi. The following day, Garza returned to AAA, when he, along with members of \"Los Perros del Mal\", attacked El Mesías and Jack Evans, after they had defeated Aguayo and Chessman in a match. On December 16 at Guerra de Titanes, Garza, Aguayo and Halloween defeated Evans, Fénix and Drago in a six-man tag team match. On February 14, 2012, Garza defeated champion X-Fly, El Hijo del Perro Aguayo, El Mesías, El Texano Jr. and Toscano in a six-way elimination match at a \"Perros del Mal Producciones\" event to win the Mexican National Heavyweight Championship for the second time. On August 5 at Triplemanía XX, Garza's accidental chair shot to El Hijo del Perro Aguayo cost the \"Perros del Mal\" leader his match for the AAA Mega Championship. On August 10, \"Los Perros del Mal\" turned on Garza and kicked him out of the stable.\n\nHéctor Solano Segura was born on June 12, 1969, in Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico, son of professional wrestler Humberto Garza. His brother works as a professional wrestler and promoter under the ring name \"Humberto Garza Jr.\" and his son, originally known as \"Último Ninja\" in Mexico and \"Humberto Carrillo\" in NXT, is a professional wrestler, using the name El Sultán. His uncle is Mike Segura, better known under the ring name \"El Ninja\". Solano's cousin is known as \"El Ninja Jr.\", and his nephew, Humberto Garza Solano, works under the ring name Angel Garza.\n\nIn 2005, Solano was set to wrestle Scott Hall at TNA's Final Resolution 2005 but was arrested in Houston, Texas, for possession of steroids. The police found Deca-Durabolin and Primobolan, both of which are legal to have and use in Mexico, but not in the United States, and Solano claimed that he had legal prescriptions for them but could not produce them at the time of his arrest. Solano was deported back to Mexico and barred from entry for a number of years, effectively ending his career in the United States. Garza claimed that he did not know the steroids were illegal in the United States and that he was humiliated by the guards.\n\nOn October 15, 2012, a press release revealed that Solano had been diagnosed with lung cancer. He retired from active competition to undergo chemotherapy and additional treatment. He died on May 26, 2013 from cancer. He was the reigning Mexican National Heavyweight Champion at the time of his death. As a result of his death, the \"Comisión de Box y Lucha Libre Mexico D.F.\" (the Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission) deemed the Mexican National Heavyweight Championship inactive.\n\nOn August 9, 2015, at Triplemanía XXIII, Garza was inducted into the AAA Hall of Fame. When his nephew Humberto Garza Solano began working for Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide, he changed his ring name from \"El Hijo del Ninja\" to \"Garza Jr.\" in honor of his uncle, adopting both the look and some of the mannerisms and wrestling moves that his uncle had become known for.\n\n† = deceased\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947860", "title": "Gerda Wegener", "text": "Gerda Wegener\n\nGerda Marie Fredrikke Wegener (née Gottlieb; 15 March 1886 – 28 July 1940) was a Danish illustrator and painter, specialising in images of fashionable women in the style of Art Nouveau and later Art Deco. Her first spouse was a trans woman and became her favourite model under the name Lili Elbe. Elbe herself was one of the first people to undergo gender reassignment surgery. Their story formed the basis for David Ebershoff's bestselling novel \"The Danish Girl\", later adapted as a film.\n\nGottlieb grew up in the provinces, in the village of Hammelev near the city of Grenå, the daughter of Justine (née Østerberg) and Emil Gottlieb, a vicar in the Lutheran church. Her father had Huguenot ancestry and her family was conservative. She had three siblings but was the only child to live to adulthood. She showed artistic talent at a young age and began training. Her family moved to Hobro and later she moved to Copenhagen to pursue her education at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts.\n\nHer career as an artist began after graduating from the Academy in 1907 and 1908 when she won a drawing contest put on by the Politiken newspaper. She then was the center of a controversy called the \"Peasant Painter Dispute\" after one of her works, a portrait of Ellen von Kohl, was rejected for exhibitions due to the style of the piece.\n\nShe was inspired by fashion, and sought work as an illustrator for \"Vogue\", \"La Vie Parisienne\" and other magazines. She became a well-known artist in Paris, but was less successful in Denmark, where people found her work controversial. She held exhibitions of her work at popular art studios around Europe. In 1925, she won a prize for her artwork in competition at the 1925 World Fair in Paris. She was known for her illustrations created for advertisements and was also a sought-after portrait painter. She befriended Ulla Poulsen (1905–2001), a famous Danish ballerina, who became a frequent model for her paintings. She and her spouse were also close friends with artist Rudolph Tegner and his wife Elna.\n\nShe met fellow artist Lili Elbe – then known as Einar Wegener – at art school. They married in 1904, when she was 18 and her spouse was 22. They traveled through Italy and France, eventually settling in Paris in 1912. The couple immersed themselves in the Bohemian lifestyle of the time, befriending many artists, dancers and other figures from the artistic world, often attending carnivals and other public festivals.\n\nDuring this time Elbe began to wear female clothing, and adopted her female name and persona, becoming Gerda Wegener's favorite model, in paintings of beautiful women with haunting almond-shaped eyes dressed in chic fashions. In 1913, the art world was shocked when they learned that the model who had inspired her depictions of petite femmes fatales was in fact her spouse.\n\nAs Elbe adopted her female identity, Gerda Wegener commonly introduced her as Einar Wegener's cousin when she was dressed in female attire. In 1930 Elbe underwent sex reassignment surgery (the second known). As Danish law at the time did not recognize marriage between two women, their marriage was annulled in October 1930 by King Christian X. Elbe died in 1931 from complications of the surgery.\n\nIn 1931, devastated by Elbe's death, Wegener married Italian officer, aviator, and diplomat Major Fernando Porta, who was ten years her junior, and moved with him to Morocco (specifically Marrakech and Casablanca). She continued to create art during this period, signing her paintings as Gerda Wegener Porta. She divorced Porta in 1936 after a rocky marriage, with his swindling her of funds, and she returned to Denmark in 1938. She held her last exhibition in 1939, but by this time, her artwork was out of style. She had no children, lived by herself in relative obscurity, and began to drink heavily. She kept an income by selling hand-painted postcards.\n\nShe died on July 28, 1940, in Frederiksberg, Denmark, shortly after Nazi Germany invaded the country. Her small estate was auctioned, and there was only a small obituary printed in the local paper.\n\nOver the years, the story of the couple gained a cult following in Denmark and around the world. Their artwork has been rediscovered, and exhibited and auctioned with success. A special exhibition of Gerda Wegener's art is on display at the Arken Museum of Modern Art until January 2017, with plans for a traveling exhibit of her art to travel around the world.\n\n\"The Danish Girl\", David Ebershoff's 2000 novel about them was an international bestseller and was translated into a dozen languages. Gerda Wegener is portrayed by Swedish actress Alicia Vikander in the 2015 film \"The Danish Girl\", also starring British actor Eddie Redmayne as Lili Elbe. The film received some criticism for obscuring the actual story of a historical trans person and omitting certain facts and for being based on a fictional book that does not tell the true story of Einar and Gerda Wegener. The topic of Gerda Wegener's own sexuality, which many believe is demonstrated by the subjects of her erotic drawings, is not mentioned in the film or book.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947862", "title": "Roman Krzyżelewski", "text": "Roman Krzyżelewski\n\nRoman Krzyżelewski (born January 25, 1949 in Rzeczenica, Poland) was the commander-in-chief of the Polish Navy between October 2003 and November 2007. For most of his career he was a Submarine Officer, although he started his career as a Weapons Conscript on board an Osa-class missile boat\n\n"}
{"id": "1947868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947868", "title": "Iu Mien Americans", "text": "Iu Mien Americans\n\nIu Mien Americans are Americans, primarily Indochinese refugees, of Iu Mien descent, a subset of the Yao people. This group arrived from Laos, Vietnam, and Thailand in between the late 1970s to the early 1990s as the last wave of refugees post-Vietnam War, settling primarily along the West Coast of the United States.\n\nIu Mien originated from China to Vietnam, migrated to Laos, Thailand, and then to the United States. The Iu Mien scriptures and stories were told that Yao people were from a place called “Qianjiadong”, the homeland of the Yao or Iu Mien people. For generations the legend of the “Qianjiadong” was told that there was only one way in and one way out of this peaceful beautiful place through a cavern. This homeland of the Yao, was told that it is very beautiful, has surrounding waterfalls and rivers, and that it is secluded from the outside world. As many years has passed people started to doubt and thought it was just a myth, until, recently Gong Zhebing discovered this homeland of the Yao/Iu Mien.\n\nIu Mien Americans descend, arrived in Laos from Southern China during the late 1600s to 1800s. Reasons for this migration remain controversial, varying from political to socio-economic ventures. Many Iu Mien American elders were involved with the United States CIA during the \"Secret War\" in Laos in an effort to block weapon smuggling via parts of the Ho Chi Minh trail from North Vietnam to South Vietnam. When the American operation pulled out in 1975, hundreds of families were forced to seek refuge in the neighboring country of Thailand. Hundreds died during this journey on foot through the deep jungles of Southeast Asia. In the next few years, thousands settled in Thailand refugee camps. Through programs from the United Nations, roughly 60,000 were sponsored to western countries such as the United States, France, and Canada.\n\nApproximately 50,000 Iu Mien settled along the western coast of the U.S. in states of California, Oregon and Washington. Approximately 10,000 or less have settled in other parts of the country, in states of Alabama, Alaska, Texas, Tennessee, Michigan, Illinois, North Carolina and other states. This ethnicity group has yet to be included in the United States Census and consequently, current population numbers have been skewed anywhere from 40,000 to 50,000. Since resettlement in America, historical contacts have been and continue to be made, between Mien Americans and Mien in China and Vietnam. Many Mien American relatives still remain in the countries of Laos and Thailand.\n\nAs a people from ancient, isolated farming societies, first Iu Mien American generations struggled through obstacles of language, acculturation and more as they resettled in bustling, modern cities. As younger generations Americanize, they face generational gaps, loss of language, loss of culture, lack of identity and more. Community-based organizations formed among communities in Washington, Oregon and California to provide direct services, catering to resettlement issues.\n\nThey celebrated their 31st anniversary in Sacramento, California, on July 7, 2007. Achievement awards were given to Mien American military service members, doctors, educators, scholars, leaders, and others.\n\nThere are approximately 50,000 Mien in the US as of 2012, with 15,000 of those in Sacramento, and 13,000 in the East Bay.\n\nIu Mien people have settled all across continents of the world. There are Iu Mien who settled in the United States, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Laos, Myanmar, New Zealand, Switzerland, Thailand, and Vietnam after or during the \"Secret War.\"\n\nThere is a large population of Iu Mien Americans that have settled in the city of Sacramento, California. In California: Sacramento, Oakland, Richmond, San Jose, Merced, Visalia, Stockton, Fresno, Yuba City, Oroville, Gridley, and Redding. In Oregon, most of the Iu Mien populations are resided in Salem and the greater Portland area. In Washington, most of the Iu Mien population are living in the King County of the greater Seattle area.\n\nMien people (rebel alliance) were very involved in the CIA's Secret War between U.S and Vietnam. Beginning in 1964, the U.S. army began to train Mien people to provide their intelligence, surveillance, and armed manpower during the Secret War. There were three Iu Mien important figure soldiers to fight alongside the United States; they are: Colonel, Chao Mai Saechao, Colonel, Chao La Saechao, and Captain, Vern Chien Saechao. In Laos of 1967, Colonel Chao Mai died by either heart attack or stroke. His younger brother Chao La Saechao promoted to Colonel. Chao La passed in 2005 in France at age 82. Captain Vern Chien Saechao resided in Richmond with his family, where he passed early 2009.\nIn 1975, the Lao People's Democratic Republic or the Communist government was established. In efforts to escape political persecution for supporting the CIA, many Mien people fled on foot through the jungle and across the Mekong River to the refugee camps in Thailand. Organizations, like the United Nation, provided food, water, and shelter for many living in the camps. The United Nation could only help so much that they started providing insufficient amount of resources for the people sheltering in the camps. After the Lao Civil War also known to be the Vietnam war, the US accepted Iu Mien refugees to America for resettlement as any of the war torn country.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1979, the first wave of Mien families began to arrive in the United States. Mien people have faced numerous obstacles in resettlement.\n\nThey were forced to move from a non-industrial, slash and burn economy, to an industrialized, post-modern economy. Lack of exposure to formal education and paid labor has led Mien refugees to find resettlement difficult.\n\nProblem existed in all areas, from language and customs to religion and power structures. Since their arrival, the Iu-Mien language has been slowly disappearing. A majority of third generation Iu-Mien are fluent in English but cannot converse in Mienh. Many Iu-Mien have abandoned the Taoist/Animist religion and converted to Christianity. Gender and power relations are in flux, as authority is no longer centered around the oldest male in the family. Many changes have taken place during the last 25 years. It has been argued that \"traditional\" Iu-Mien culture will disappear in a matter of decades and ethnic identity will slowly diminish through generations.\n\nIn traditional days, Mien communicate by singing and telling folk stories. It was a way of philosophical communication and a way of teaching by passing on stories in profound songs generations after generations. Singing and reciting by doing noble ritual offerings to the ancestors from the \"Book of Death\", burning incense \"Tao / Dao\" was a way to keep the roots educated and benevolence performing peaceful harmony in ceremonies. \"The Book Of Death\" is very much the same as the Tibetan \"Book of the Dead\", and the Three Bardo Thodol. In this Book of Life and Death are the names of ancestors from birth to death, family lineage pass down by generations. The rebirth of the new generation is believed to be in the mixture of Hip-hop, Pop and R&b and some can be found very articulate, powering and political. Nowadays, Mien people usually write their own songs or they translate Thai and Lao songs into Mien.\n\n\nThis group is also under the \"Yao\" classification in China because that is how it is pronounced in Standard Mandarin, the official language of China. It has become apparent that the term \"Yao\" is no more than a longstanding name used by host Chinese. These peoples traditionally do not call themselves \"Yao\" and not all \"Yao\" are Mien.\n\nThe Republic of China made the name \"Yao\" official in 1945 by classification for government purposes. The classification associates minorities that may or may not have related ancestry. Although they share festivities of the same creation story, pan hu (Pien Hung), it is hard to determine what relations are beyond that fact. Through recent contacts, some spoke the same language as Mien Americans while others did not, with unintelligible conversation, clearly distinct cultures, food, dress and more. There continue to be various names under the \"Yao\" classification for these differences, named by the Chinese, such as: Bunu, Dongnu, Panyao, etc.\n\nIt is extremely difficult to find history behind Mien origins when the term \"Yao\" is used. So many sources (both Western and Chinese) describe the \"Yao\" history, yet the particular language and people is never defined.\n\nMien traditional dishes/ diets consist of vegetables, chicken, pork, beef, fish, and rice. Authentic dishes are mien pork-sausages (pork - with mien herbs/seasoning), ah-won (pork-stew), Klang Phen (rice flour that is cooked, complemented with spicy bean paste and sour broth.), steamed or boiled pork, chicken, or beef with Tofu, Ka-Soy, rice noodle and meat salads, fermented pickled mustard greens (ly-seawea), fermented MIEN bean paste (thop choi/ thop zhay), roast/ baked fish wrapped in banana leaf (modernly wrapped in banana leaf as well as foil) and banana-leaf wrap roast/steam ground-pork, beef, or chicken. A traditional condiment is Mien pepper sauce Fuhn-tsu. \n\nOther influences include Tum Som, also known as papaya salad (originally a Thai/Lao dish), and Larb (a Thai/Lao dish).\n\nMoving Mountains: The story of the Yiu MIen . Produced by Elaine Velaquez\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947874", "title": "Extreme Dinosaurs", "text": "Extreme Dinosaurs\n\nExtreme Dinosaurs is an American animated series produced by DIC Productions, L.P. in 1997 based on a 1996 toy line from Mattel. This show is a spin-off of \"Street Sharks\" (where they first appeared as the Dino Vengers).\n\nThe plot revolves around a group of dinosaurs that survived extinction and were subsequently captured by an extraterrestrial criminal and transformed into mutants to help take over an alien planet. After the dinosaurs rebelled against the criminal, they split into two opposing factions: the first, known as the Raptors, relentlessly attempts to spark global warming to make Earth's temperature more comfortable for dinosaurs. Meanwhile, the other faction, the eponymous Extreme Dinosaurs, goes on an all-out effort to thwart Raptors' designs and save the planet.\n\nThe show is in the same vein as \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" and \"Jurassic Park\". Bohbot Entertainment ran \"Extreme Dinosaurs\" in syndication as part of their BKN Kids Network block where it aired for one season in 1997.\n\nThe series starred a \"Tyrannosaurus\", a \"Triceratops\", a \"Stegosaurus\", and a \"Pteranodon\" that were transformed into super warriors by an interdimensional criminal named Argor Zardok. They rebelled against the alien criminal and battle with Argor's second group of warriors known as the evil Raptors. Eventually, the Raptors' objective is to cause global warming by increasing the Earth's temperature, which will make life on earth more comfortable for dinosaurs.\n\n\nThe Velociraptors (or Raptors) are the archenemy of the Extreme Dinosaurs with the determination of conquering planet Earth or changing its climate by global warming to fit their comfort.\n\n\nThe Quadrainians are a race of blue-skinned humanoids from the largely-unseen Quadrainia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe episodes Out of Time, Fossil Fooled, Ick-thysaurus Vacation, Inevitable Eggztinction, Raptoroid, and Bullzeye Surfs the Web were released on four different VHS tapes.\n\nThe complete series was released over four DVD volumes by Force Entertainment in Australia. Each DVD volume included a single opening & ending sequence, with 13 episodes in production order.\nPidax Film released the first 13 episodes on DVD in Germany, with English & German audio, on April 6, 2018.\n\nExtreme Dinosaurs is a series of toys created by Mattel in 1996. It later spawned a TV Show in 1997 with the same name. Originally called \"Dino Vengers,\" these toys are about a group of college teens who turn into Dinosaurs (the plot for the toys is a lot different than the plot of the TV show). The main toys are \"T-Bone,\" \"Bullzeye,\" \"Spike,\" \"Stegz,\" and \"Hard Rock.\" The enemies of the toy line are \"Bad Rap,\" \"Haxx,\" and \"Spittor.\" Later on, the toys expanded into \"Dino Vision\" toys, which let you see through the Dinosaur character (as if you were the dinosaur). There were also War Paint and recolors of the toys. The toys were also a spin-off of \"Street Sharks\", a toy line also by Mattel that later was made into a TV show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947877", "title": "Tyler Walker (baseball)", "text": "Tyler Walker (baseball)\n\nTyler Lanier Walker (born May 16, 1976) is an American former professional baseball relief pitcher. He is an alumnus of San Francisco University High School, where he was closely mentored by Duncan Lyon, and University of California, Berkeley. Walker pitched in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Mets (2002), San Francisco Giants (2004–2006, 2007–2008), Tampa Bay Devil Rays (2006), Philadelphia Phillies (2009), and Washington Nationals (2010).\n\nWalker's big break came in , when Giants' closer Armando Benítez was out of action for three months. With only one major league save in his career to that point, Walker filled in admirably by converting 23 out of 28 save opportunities. On June 17, in a game against the Detroit Tigers, Walker made history by becoming the first pitcher to record a save (since the save rule became an official stat in ) by entering a game with the bases loaded with nobody out and proceeding to strike out all three batters he faced without allowing a run to score.\n\nEarly in the 2006 season, Walker was sent to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in exchange for minor leaguer Carlos Hines. On June 14 of that year, he was placed on the disabled list with a strained right elbow, and later underwent season-ending Tommy John surgery. On December 10, 2006, he signed a minor league deal with the Giants. He pitched in 15 games late in the 2007 season and re-signed with the Giants for 2008. In 65 games in 2008, he had a 4.56 ERA and became a free agent after the season. On January 6, , he signed a one-year deal with the Seattle Mariners. He was released on March 29, 2009, before the start of the regular season. After that, he was signed by the Phillies on April 9, 2009.\n\nOn January 25, 2010, Walker agreed to a one-year contract with the Washington Nationals. He posted a 3.57 ERA during the 2010 season out of a long relief role. After the season ended, he became a free agent.\n\nWalker signed with the Long Island Ducks of the Atlantic League on September 14, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947878", "title": "Moe's Southwest Grill", "text": "Moe's Southwest Grill\n\nMoe's Southwest Grill, referred to informally as Moe's, was founded in Atlanta, Georgia, in December 2000 by Raving Brands. According to the 2016 Harris Poll EquiTrend survey, Moe's is the \"Fast Casual Mexican Restaurant of the Year\", passing former top restaurant Chipotle Mexican Grill even with fewer than half the number of locations as Chipotle has. \n\nThe name \"Moe's\" originated as an acronym for \"Musicians, Outlaws and Entertainers,\" and this theme led to the music-related artwork found in the restaurants.\n\nThe company is co-owned — with Schlotzsky's, Carvel, Cinnabon, McAlister's Deli, and Auntie Anne's brands — by Focus Brands, an affiliate of private equity firm Roark Capital Group, based in Sandy Springs, Georgia, operating over 5,000 stores. \n\nMoe's offers various types of food on its menu. Burritos, tacos, quesadillas, nachos, salads, stacks, burrito bowls, and salsas with more than twenty ingredients are available to customers to create their own unique meal. These entrees have specific ingredients within it, but ingredients can be added or subtracted from it as the customer customizes their entree. Every order comes with chips and salsa on the side.\n\nMoe's has locations in Turkey and Russia. According to the company 'newsroom' website (moessouthwestgrill.wordpress.com), franchise partners also exist in Costa Rica and Jamaica.\n\nIn 2011 Moe's opened its first location outside the United States in Turkey.\n\nIn September 2012 Moe's opened its first Russian franchise located in the center of Moscow near the Kremlin on Pyatnitskaya Street.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1947892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947892", "title": "Bya", "text": "Bya\n\nbya or b.y.a. is an abbreviation for \"billion years ago\". It is commonly used as a unit of time to denote length of time before the present in 10 years. This initialism is often used in the sciences of astronomy, geology, and paleontology.\n\nThe \"billion\" in bya is the 10 \"billion\" of the short scale of the U.S., not the long-scale 10 \"billion\" of some European usage. Billion by this convention (10) is often called a \"thousand million\" in the UK and a \"milliard\" in some other countries. For this reason, there is potential for some confusion, and some scientists prefer the unit Gya, while others prefer Ga (Giga-annum), however bya remains in more widespread use. In 1974, the UK switched from the long scale to the short scale.\n\nRelated units are mya (\"million years ago\"), and byr (\"billion years\"). These are traditionally written in lowercase. Ga or Gya has a capitalized first letter instead.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947894", "title": "University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine", "text": "University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine\n\nThe University of Puerto Rico, Medical Sciences Campus, School of Medicine is located in the University of Puerto Rico, Medical Sciences Campus in San Juan, Puerto Rico. It's the only medical school in the University of Puerto Rico System. It is accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME). Its students are predominantly Puerto Rican residents. However, anyone is allowed to apply to this university. It is also considered the best bilingual medical school in the world due to its requirement for each admitted student to fully master both English and Spanish.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, major health problems affected the Puerto Rican population. Anemia, malnutrition and parasitism were some of the most common conditions in children and adults. With the arrival of U.S. troops in 1898, the need for effective health plans to serve the population became a priority. With the change of sovereignty, anemia commissions were established in Puerto Rico. Thus began the development of what would become the Institute of Tropical Medicine, which was formalized in 1912.\n\nA consolidation of the former Institute of Tropical Medicine and other entities led in 1926 to the formation of the School of Tropical Medicine. Funds from Columbia University were used for the training of different health professionals in the island. At the same time, the school's professors conducted studies in collaboration with Columbia University physicians on tropical diseases hitherto of unknown etiology, or of high prevalence morbidity and mortality in Puerto Rico. In 1946 following the end of World War II, Columbia University canceled the money sent to the Medical School, which led to its closure. The legislature authorized a School of Medicine at the University of Puerto Rico, into which the School of Tropical Medicine was integrated.\n\nThe need for a State Medical School led in 1950 to the creation of the University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine as part of the University of Puerto Rico System, thanks to efforts made by the lawyer and first president of the University, Jaime Benitez. It began with an enrollment of 52 students. The school received its accreditation on 20 April 1954. In 1960, the University established a graduate program, unique in Puerto Rico, along with other medical services and research. Distinguished professors from European countries and Latin America visited the School for academics, research and consultation.\n\nAdán Nigaglioni Loyola was dean from 1963 to 1967.\n\nThe curriculum of the program leading to the Doctor of Medicine degree is designed following the trends of modern medical education and takes into consideration the health needs of the community. It is divided into two major components: two years of required biomedical sciences and two years of clinical clerkships. The School of Medicine MD Program is fully accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education.\n\nPrograms leading to:\nMaster of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in:\n\nAnatomy, Biochemistry, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Physiology, Microbiology and Medical Zoology Biology through an intercampus (UPR-Medical Sciences and Rio Piedras) program.\n\nDepartments:\n\nACGME Accredited Speciality Programs:\n\nAnesthesiology, Dermatology, Diagnostic Radiology, Emergency Medicine, Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Obstetrics-Gynecology, Ophthalmology, Orthopedic Surgery, Otolaryngology, Pathology, Pediatrics, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Psychiatry, Surgery and Urology.\n\nACGME Accredited Sub-Speciality Programs:\n\nCardiovascular Disease, Child and adolescent psychiatry, Endocrinology, Family Practice-Geriatrics, Gastroenterology, Geriatric Medicine, Hematology/Oncology, Infectious Diseases, Neonatology, Nephrology, Neuromuscular Medicine, Nuclear Medicine, Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Pediatric Neurology, Pulmonology and Rheumatology.\n"}
{"id": "1947900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947900", "title": "Mount Saskatchewan (Alberta)", "text": "Mount Saskatchewan (Alberta)\n\nMount Saskatchewan is a mountain located in the North Saskatchewan River valley of Banff National Park, in the Canadian Rockies of Alberta, Canada.\n\nJ. Norman Collie named the mountain in 1898 for the nearby Saskatchewan River. One report said Collie so named it due to its possession of the headwaters of the North Saskatchewan River. \n\nA pinnacle unofficially named Lighthouse Tower and also sometimes referred to as \"Cleopatra's Needle\" (elevation ), is located two kilometres from the summit on the eastern ridge of Mt. Saskatchewan. \n\nIt was first climbed in 1964 by G. Boehnisch and L. Mackay.\n\nLike other mountains in Banff Park, Mount Saskatchewan is composed of sedimentary rock laid down from the Precambrian to Jurassic periods. Formed in shallow seas, this sedimentary rock was pushed east and over the top of younger rock during the Laramide orogeny. The north aspect of the peak supports an unnamed glacier which can be seen well from Parker Ridge.\n\nBased on the Köppen climate classification, Mount Saskatchewan is located in a subarctic climate with cold, snowy winters, and mild summers. Temperatures can drop below -20 °C with wind chill factors below -30 °C. Weather conditions during summer months are optimum for climbing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947901", "title": "Reed Smoot hearings", "text": "Reed Smoot hearings\n\nThe Reed Smoot hearings, also called Smoot hearings or the Smoot Case, were a series of Congressional hearings on whether the United States Senate should seat U.S. Senator Reed Smoot, who was elected by the Utah legislature in 1903. Smoot was an apostle in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), one of the top 15 leaders of the church. The hearings began in 1904 and continued until 1907, when the Senate voted. The vote fell short of a two-thirds majority needed to expel a member so he retained his seat.\n\nPopular opposition against Smoot's seating in the Senate centered on the church's practice of polygamy, which the church officially abandoned in 1890; as the hearings revealed, however, the practice continued unofficially well into the 20th century. For example, the President of the LDS Church Joseph F. Smith cohabited with his many wives (all of whom he married before 1890) and fathered eleven children after 1890. New plural marriages did end by 1909, but the practice continued until the polygamists died off. Smoot himself only had one wife.\n\nThe attorney who represented those protesting Smoot's admittance to the Senate, Robert W. Tayler, explained in his summation that polygamy was irrelevant and the real danger was Mormon belief in revelation. Much of the American Protestant establishment viewed the LDS Church with distrust and was also skeptical of Utah politics, which before gaining statehood in 1896 had at times been a theocracy (theodemocracy) and in the early 20th century was still heavily dominated and influenced by the LDS Church; President of the LDS Church Brigham Young was twice appointed territorial governor by the U.S. President and ratified by the Senate, despite being a polygamist.\n\nPrior to being called as an apostle of the LDS Church, Smoot had run for a Senate position, but withdrew before the election. After becoming an apostle in 1900, he received the approval of church president Joseph F. Smith to run again in 1902 as a Republican. The need for this permission was a result of the LDS Church's \"Political Manifesto\" issued in October 1895, which instituted a policy which required general authorities of the church to be granted approval from the First Presidency to run for political office. In January 1903, the Utah legislature elected Smoot with 46 votes, compared to his Democratic competitor, who won 16.\n\nWithin days of his election, controversy brewed as Smoot was charged with being \"one of a self-perpetuating body of fifteen men who, constituting the ruling authorities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or 'Mormon' Church, claim, and by their followers are accorded the right to claim, supreme authority, divinely sanctioned, to shape the belief and control the conduct of those under them in all matters whatsoever, civil and religious, temporal and spiritual.\"\n\nWhen Senator Smoot arrived in Washington, DC, in late February 1903, he was met with protests and charges that he was a polygamist, but he could easily disprove them. Unlike B. H. Roberts, who upon election to the House of Representatives was not allowed to sit while hearings took place, Smoot was allowed to be seated. Among the public, old charges of Danites, the Mountain Meadows massacre, and Brigham Young's plural wives were discussed.\n\nIn January 1904, Smoot prepared a rebuttal to the criticisms, with the help of several non-Mormon lawyers. The actual hearings began in March. LDS Church President Joseph F. Smith took the witness stand and was interrogated for three days. Apostles Matthias F. Cowley and John W. Taylor did not show up after being subpoenaed. Apostle Marriner W. Merrill ignored one subpoena and died soon after being subpoenaed a second time. Taylor fled to Canada. Other witnesses included James E. Talmage; Francis M. Lyman, president of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles; Andrew Jenson, church historian; B. H. Roberts; and Moses Thatcher, who had been dropped from the Quorum of the Twelve in 1896.\n\nAccording to historian Kathleen Flake:\n\nThe four-year Senate proceeding created a 3,500-page record of testimony by 100 witnesses on every peculiarity of Mormonism, especially its polygamous family structure, ritual worship practices, \"secret oaths,\" open canon, economic communalism, and theocratic politics. The public participated actively in the proceedings. In the Capitol, spectators lined the halls, waiting for limited seats in the committee room, and filled the galleries to hear floor debates. For those who could not see for themselves, journalists and cartoonists depicted each day's admission and outrage. At the height of the hearing, some senators were receiving a thousand letters a day from angry constituents. What remains of these public petitions fills 11 feet of shelf space, the largest such collection in the National Archives.\nAfter years of hearings, the remaining charges of the opposition included the following:\n\nThe defense included:\n\nOf note, Senator Fred Dubois of Idaho fought viciously against Smoot. His intensity caused some to believe that Smoot was as powerful as Dubois claimed. Dubois's ally, Senator Julius C. Burrows of Michigan, made the following statement, speaking of the history of Mormon polygamy: \n\nOne supporter was Senator Boies Penrose of Pennsylvania. Addressing the subject of polygamy, Penrose reportedly glared at one or more of his Senate colleagues who had a reputation for philandering and said, \"As for me, I would rather have seated beside me in this chamber a polygamist who doesn't polyg than a monogamist who doesn't monag.\"\n\nOn February 20, 1907, the issue came to a conclusion as a vote was held in the Senate. Smoot won and remained a senator for 26 more years.\n\nPresident Joseph F. Smith on April 6, 1904, issued a \"Second Manifesto,\" which reaffirmed the first regarding polygamy. He also declared that any church officer who performed a plural marriage, as well as the offending couple, would be excommunicated. He clarified that the policy applied worldwide, not just in North America. Two members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, John W. Taylor and Matthias F. Cowley, resigned in October 1905 after the manifesto. The change to the Twelve was made public in April 1906, when George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, and David O. McKay were added to the quorum.\n"}
{"id": "1947911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947911", "title": "Parque de Bombas", "text": "Parque de Bombas\n\nThe Parque de Bombas () is a historic former fire station in Ponce, Puerto Rico. It is one of Puerto Rico's most notable buildings, with some considering it \"by far the most easily recognized landmark in the Island.\" It is located at the Plaza Las Delicias town square, directly behind Ponce Cathedral. Originally built in 1882 as a pavilion for an exhibition, it became Puerto Rico's first ever fire station. In 1990, the fire station closed and was converted into a museum. It was listed in the National Register of Historic Places on 12 July 1984.\n\nThe structure was built as the main exhibit pavilion for the 1882 Exhibition Trade Fair. The Madrid-based central government assigned the task of designing and constructing it to a Spanish Army officer, Lt. Colonel Maximo de Meana y Guridi who was also a trained architect and later served as Mayor of the city.\n\nThe building was unveiled at the fair. After the fair concluded, the pavilion became a fire station. The first firefighters to work in the building were stationed on 2 February 1883. In 1885, its official name was changed to \"Estación de Bomberos de Ponce\" (Ponce Fire Station).\n\nIn 1920, the building was used briefly as the Mayor's office as a result of the 1918 San Fermín earthquake that affected the city during that year.\n\nIn 1967 and due to the distinctive appearance and central location of this firehouse, the Ponce municipal flag was designed using the red and black colors of its iconic firehouse as its base colors. The Fireman's Band, originally played weekly concerts from an open second floor stage attached to Parque de Bombas. Now known as the Ponce Municipal Band, the band continues to play every Sunday evening, though in different locations. On 12 May 1960, a new fire station was built nearby at the junction of Calle Mayor and Calle Cristina. This new structure became the main fire station for the city, reducing Parque de Bombas to a secondary role.\n\nSince 1885, Parque de Bombas has been, and it is, an important cultural institution in Ponce. Its colors represent the city, its unique style represents a progressive and dynamic cultural center. The Banda Municipal de Ponce (formerly, the Fireman's Band), originally played weekly concerts from an open second floor stage attached to Parque de Bombas, now continues its plays every Sunday evening. Called \"Retretas\", they are part of a cultural program and tradition of the city of Ponce. The structure's extremely unusual format represents the brave firemen of Ponce, and its history. An inscription at Parque de Bombas reads, \"\"This building is a symbol and commemoration of the importance vested by the residents of Ponce in the service, self-denial and courage of the Ponce Firefighters Corps. It is for this reason that the Ponce Firefighters Corps remains symbolically on this Plaza, in the heart of the city of Ponce.\"\" In 1943, the Firemen Services of Puerto Rico was created by legislation. Its main commitment is to extinguish fires, prevent fires, rescue services in natural disasters or emergencies, and to service the community.\n\nThe basic structure measure 65'-8\" in width by 26'-3\" in length. It is two stories high with a tower at each corner of the Calle Marina front facade. The building is located in the city's central \"Las Delicias Plaza\" and it is attached to the Cathedral of Ponce at its rear boundary. Structurally, it is a wooden frame building with a pitched roof covered with galvanized zinc sheets. Exterior cladding is horizontal 1\" by 6\" wooden siding. Doors and windows are wooden. The windows are of the fixed louvered type, long, narrow, and crowned by an oversized fixed fan light.\n\nThe building's layout is a large, central space, flanked by two lateral towers, two stories in height, which opens to the main central area. The main central area is used as garage facilities for the fire trucks, and the two lateral towers are used as living quarters and exhibition areas. An elegant central two-sided stairway with elaborated cast iron railing leads to a mezzanine area used as administrative offices. \nSome interior partitions were removed from the first floor when the structure was altered for its new use as a firehouse in order to accommodate the machinery. The building has been kept in good condition throughout the years.\n\nMeana designed the building with a strong Moorish influence, including its basic rectangular plan with towers at its front corners, its ornate façade, its long and narrow windows with fans at its top and its bright colored paint scheme. Gothic revival architecture was also an influence. The building is painted red and black, Ponce's official colors. The interior is also very colorful, with vertical stripes of red and orange on the walls and a painted frieze with a fireman's motif.\n\nAfter 108 years of service, Parque de Bombas was vacated by the Puerto Rico Firefighters Corps in 1990. It was converted into a museum of firefighting. The architect in charge of its restoration was Pablo Ojeda O'Neill. The newer fire station was taken over by the Instituto de Música Juan Morel Campos in 2008. Ponce's central fire station is now located 1 km east of Parque de Bombas on Miguel Pou Boulevard.\n\nThe firehouse is featured on the front cover of La Sonora Ponceña's LP salsa album titled \"Fuego en el 23!\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947912", "title": "Lamar High School (Arlington, Texas)", "text": "Lamar High School (Arlington, Texas)\n\nMirabeau B. Lamar High School is a secondary school in Arlington, Texas. It is named for Mirabeau B. Lamar, the second president of the Republic of Texas, and serves grades 9 through 12 in the Arlington Independent School District.\n\nLamar opened in 1970 as Arlington Independent School District's third high school. Lamar relieved Arlington High School and Sam Houston High School. Cathy Brown of \"The Dallas Morning News\" said that Lamar's effect on Sam Houston was \"minimal\" because there were very few housing units located north of Division and east of Collins. Brown said that \"[t]he effect on Arlington High School was huge\" since the housing in the Arlington zone north to division had been moved to Lamar. 12th grade students that had been zoned out of Arlington High School continued to attend Arlington High School, despite being in the Lamar zone.\n\nIn 1982 Martin High School opened. Brown said that Sam Houston and Lamar were \"relatively unaffected\" by the opening of Martin, located in southwest Arlington.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947920", "title": "Billion years", "text": "Billion years\n\nA billion years (10 years) is a unit of time on the petasecond scale, more precisely equal to seconds.\n\nIt is sometimes abbreviated Gy, Ga (\"giga-annum\"), Byr and variants. The abbreviations Gya or bya are for \"billion years ago\", i.e. billion years before present. \nThe terms are used in geology, paleontology, geophysics, astronomy, and physical cosmology.\n\nThe prefix giga- is preferred to billion- to avoid confusion in the long and short scales over the meaning of billion; the postfix annum may be further qualified for precision as a sidereal year or Julian year:\n\nByr was formerly used in English-language geology and astronomy as a unit of one billion years. Subsequently, the term gigaannum (Ga) has increased in usage, with Gy or Gyr still sometimes used in English-language works (at the risk of confusion with Gy as abbreviation for the gray, a unit of radiation exposure). Astronomers use Gyr or Gy as an abbreviation for gigayear.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947923", "title": "Snap matchlock", "text": "Snap matchlock\n\nThe snap matchlock is a type of matchlock mechanism used to ignite early firearms. It was used in Europe from about 1475 to 1640, and in Japan from 1543 till about 1880.\n\nThe serpentine (a curved lever with a clamp on the end) was held in firing position by a weak spring, and released by pressing a button, pulling a trigger, or even pulling a short string passing into the mechanism. The slow match held in the serpentine swung into a flash pan containing priming powder. The flash from the flash pan travelled through the touch hole igniting the main propellant charge of the gun. As the match was often extinguished after its relatively violent collision with the flash pan, this type fell out of favour with soldiers, but was often used in fine target weapons.\n\nIn Japan the first documented introduction of the matchlock which became known as the \"tanegashima\" was through the Portuguese in 1543. The \"tanegashima\" seems to have been based on examples of \"snap matchlocks\" purchased from Portuguese traders, and originally produced in the Portuguese armories present in Asia including Portuguese Malacca and Goa in Portuguese India, which were cities captured by the Portuguese in 1511 and 1510, respectively. The Malay arquebus, istinggar, ulitized this type of mechanism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947925", "title": "Pierre Menard (disambiguation)", "text": "Pierre Menard (disambiguation)\n\nPierre Menard is the name of:\n"}
{"id": "1947934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947934", "title": "Open city", "text": "Open city\n\nIn war, an open city is a settlement which has announced it has abandoned all defensive efforts, generally in the event of the imminent capture of the city to avoid destruction. Once a city has declared itself an open city, the opposing military will be expected to peacefully occupy the city rather than destroy it. The concept aims to protect the city's civilians and cultural landmarks from a battle which may be futile.\n\nAttacking forces do not always respect the declaration of an \"open city\". Defensive forces will use it as a political tactic as well. In some cases, the declaration of a city to be \"open\" is made by a side on the verge of defeat and surrender; in other cases, those making such a declaration are willing and able to fight on but prefer that the specific city be spared.\n\nAccording to the Protocol I of the Geneva Conventions, it is forbidden for the attacking party to \"attack, by any means whatsoever, non-defended localities\".\n\nSeveral cities were declared open during World War II:\n\nIn 1977, a far-left group in Japan—called the \"National Open City Declaration Movement Network\"—began organizing activists to make cities preemptively declare themselves \"defenseless\" under the Geneva Convention, so that in the event of war, they would be legally forced to welcome any invasion. This was rejected by nearly all of Japan's political parties and the ruling government as inherently absurd, since Japan was not in a war, and in the event of war such a decision would have to be approved by the national government. However, the Social Democratic Party—which was the junior party of the ruling coalition from 1994 to 1996—supported it.\n\nNevertheless, four wards of Tokyo and Kagoshima City, Japan's southernmost port, among many other cities, are considering legislation to be declared \"open cities\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1947937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947937", "title": "Matatā", "text": "Matatā\n\nMatatā is a town in the Bay of Plenty in the North Island of New Zealand, to the north-west of Whakatāne. \n\nIn 2005 the town was inundated by two debris flows from the Awatarariki and Waitepuru Streams that devastated a number of buildings, but did not cause any casualties. The debris flows were caused by a band of intense rain, at a rate of over 2 mm per minute, that fell into the catchments southwest of Matata, dislodging a huge amount of debris that had built up behind a temporary dam.\n\nFrom January 2005 the area was subject to hundreds of shallow, low intensity earthquakes, with the most intense swarms occurring in 2005 and 2007, but continuing to at least February 2009. The largest event was of magnitude 4.2 in May 2007.\n\nIn 2016, scientists discovered a large amount of volcanic activity, including \"an inflating magma\" buildup, below the surface of the town. In 2019, the name of the town was officially gazetted as \"Matatā\".\n\nMatata has four marae:\n\n\nMatata had a population of 645 at the 2013 New Zealand census, an increase of 3 people since the 2006 census. There were 309 males and 339 females. Figures have been rounded and do not add up to totals. 60.4% were European/Pākehā, 59.9% were Māori, 2.0% were Pacific peoples and 2.0% were Asian.\n\nMatata School is a decile 5 state primary school with a roll of 77 students. St Joseph's Catholic School is a decile 2 integrated primary school with a roll of 28 students. Both schools are coeducational and cater for years 1–8.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947938", "title": "Shared appreciation mortgage", "text": "Shared appreciation mortgage\n\nA shared appreciation mortgage or SAM is a mortgage in which the lender agrees to receive some or all of the repayment in the form of a share of the increase in value (the appreciation) of the property.\n\nA shared appreciation mortgage is a mortgage arranged as a form of equity release. The lender loans the borrowers a capital sum in return for a share of the future increase in the value of the property. The borrowers retain the right to live in the property until death.\n\nShared Appreciation Mortgages sold between 1996–1998 have not always turned out to be products beneficial to the borrowers who took them out.\n\nAbout 12,000 Shared Appreciation Mortgages were sold by Bank of Scotland between November 1996 and February 1998, and about 3,000 were sold by Barclays Bank between May and August 1998. They were sold by Bank of Scotland through financial advisers and mortgage brokers, and by Barclays directly to the borrowers. Barclays Bank loaned a total of £100m of Shared Appreciation Mortgages, and so the average size of each of their loans would have been about £33,333.\n\nBarclays' booklet on Shared Appreciation Mortgages says that they were \"specially designed for the needs and lifestyles of the mature homeowner... aged 45 or over and... property worth over £60,000.\" They were mostly aimed at people aged 65 and over, and marketed as ideal for people who had paid off their mortgage, allowing them to release cash tied up in their home without having to sell up.\n\nIn 2014, nearly half of the Shared Appreciation Mortgages were still active.\n\nThe lender of a Shared Appreciation Mortgage lent a sum of money up to a maximum of 25% of the value of the property. The borrower retained ownership of the property and no repayments were made until the property was sold or the borrower died. At that time the repayment was the original amount borrowed plus a share of the increase in the value of the property. The lender's percentage share was three times the percentage of the value of the property that was originally borrowed. Therefore if the original loan was 25% of the value of the property, the share of the increase in the value would have been 75%. For the purpose of this calculation, the final value of the property was not the price at which the property was sold, but a valuation commissioned by the lender and paid for by the borrower. So if the property was sold for less than the valuation, the borrower's percentage share would be further reduced.\n\nBarclays' booklet on Shared Appreciation Mortgages gives an example of a property with an original valuation of £100,000 and a final valuation of £150,000. For a loan of £25,000, i.e. 25% of the original valuation, the repayment would be £25,000 + (75% × £50,000) = £62,500, i.e. 42% of the final valuation. Over a period of 20 years this would be equivalent to a compound interest rate of 4.7%.\n\nHowever the value of property has increased by a much greater amount than Barclays used in their example. The final valuation of the property in the example might now be £400,000. For a loan of £25,000, the repayment would be £25,000 + (75% × £300,000) = £250,000, i.e. 62.5% of the final valuation. Over a period of 20 years this would be equivalent to a compound interest rate of 12.2%, two and a half times the rate of the example. The borrower's share of the equity would be £150,000, less than half the final valuation of £400,000 of the property.\n\nBank of Scotland also sold Shared Appreciation Mortgages on which interest was charged at about 5.75% to 6% per annum. On these mortgages the maximum loan was 75% of the value of the property (compared with 25% for a zero-interest SAM), and the lender's percentage share of the appreciation was the same as the percentage of the loan to the original value of the property (compared with three times the percentage for a zero-interest SAM). Therefore if the loan was 75% of the original value of the property, the lender's share of the appreciation would also have been 75%. The interest was paid by monthly instalments, and the final repayment was the original amount borrowed plus the lender's share of the appreciation.\n\nThe large repayment amount of a Shared Appreciation Mortgage and the small share of the equity remaining mean that the borrower might not have sufficient money to be able to downsize to a smaller property. The borrower would have less money to pay care home fees, which would require the local authority to make a greater contribution to those fees. And the borrower would have less money to leave to his or her children or grandchildren, some of whom might have been looking after the borrower for many years.\n\nConversely, in the unlikely event that the value of property had remained the same or reduced, the Shared Appreciation Mortgage would have effectively been interest-free.\n\nTo calculate the equivalent compound interest rate of a \"zero-interest\" shared appreciation mortgage, i.e. the rate of the interest that would have been charged once a month on the amount owing, and added to the amount owing, so that at the end of the term of the loan, the amount owing would be the same as the repayment owing on a shared appreciation mortgage:\n\nEquivalent Compound Interest Rate formula_1\n\nwhich is the same as:\n\nEquivalent Compound Interest Rate formula_2\n\nwhere R is the amount of the repayment, L is the amount of the loan, and t is the time in years (and part of a year) between the loan and the repayment. The formula gives the equivalent compound interest rate of the mortgage as a percentage.\n\nAlternatively, if it was assumed that the interest would have been charged once a year on the amount owing, and added to the amount owing, the formula would be:\n\nEquivalent Compound Interest Rate formula_3\n\nwhich is the same as:\n\nEquivalent Compound Interest Rate formula_4\n\nFor loans that were 25% of the value of the property, the repayment would normally be 75% of the difference between the initial and final values of the property, plus the amount of the initial loan.\n\nThere is a detailed account of the origin of Shared Appreciation Mortgages in chapter 23 of Dr Bettina von Stamm's book \"Managing Innovation, Design and Creativity\", first edition published in 2003 and second edition published in 2008. Chapter 23 is titled \"Innovation in Financial Services, Case Study 8: Shared Appreciation Mortgage – Bank of Scotland\". For this chapter Dr Bettina von Stamm interviewed several of Bank of Scotland's senior sales and customer service leaders in the late 1990s. This is a précis of the chapter:\n\nCraig Corn, a director in structured finance at Merrill Lynch, was looking for a way to give investors access to one of the largest asset pools, the housing market. This was dominated by owner-occupiers, most of whose wealth was tied up in their homes. Meanwhile commercial investment in the much smaller private rental sector of the market was hampered by the cost of managing rental property and the difficulty of gaining repossession. Linking an investment to a mortgage would give investors access to the much larger owner-occupier sector of the housing market and enable the owner-occupiers to make financial use of their asset.\n\nAs Merrill Lynch's management did not feel that the product would fit into their existing product portfolio, Craig Corn approached other companies, and moved to the Swiss Bank Corporation (SBC). David Garner had joined SBC from a building society in autumn 1995, and had knowledge of the UK mortgage and capital markets. Corn and Garner worked together on the project and obtained legal opinion. It soon emerged that homeowners could give up a share in the appreciation of their property in return for a fixed-term, low-interest mortgage, while investors could access the shared appreciation in return for their investment. (SBC bought S. G. Warburg & Co., a leading British investment banking firm, in 1995, and merged it with its own investment banking unit to create SBC Warburg.)\n\nAs well as having the support of SBC as an investment bank, Corn and Garner also needed a mortgage lender to market and manage the mortgages. Of the building societies and banks they approached, Bank of Scotland had a good reputation and were considered to be innovative. In February 1996, Craig Corn contacted Willie Donald, who had recently joined Bank of Scotland as Director of Sales. Willie Donald liked the idea and took it via George While, Head of Mortgages, to George Mitchell, Divisional Chief Executive of Personal Banking, both of whom also liked the idea. Mitchell put the idea to the main board, who approved it in principle in June 1996.\n\nSBC and Bank of Scotland quickly reached agreement to cooperate. George Mitchell selected Neil Forrest to work with Willie Donald on the product. Neil Forrest had been with the bank for seven or eight years and had expertise in securitization; Willie Donald had just introduced the Personal Choice Mortgage. According to Neil Forrest, Craig Corn and Willie Donald had the ideas while he and David Garner translated the ideas into something realizable.\n\nThe team spent four or five months working on the first version of the product, which did not involve securitization. This is the pooling of debt such as residential mortgages, and selling their cash flows as securities, also known as bonds. One reason that it had not initially been included was that it had a bad reputation: it was normally only used if direct financing could not be afforded. Another reason was that the proposed interest rate swaps would have been a substantial taxation risk for the bank. The second version of the product, which did involve securitization, was given the go-ahead.\n\nThe implementation team consisted of Willie Donald and Neil Forrest, responsible for the product, Ian Dickson and John Lloyd, for sales, John Trouten, for customer care, Dave Smith, for process area, and three people from systems. A second team was dedicated to develop the processes surrounding the Shared Appreciation Mortgage. At the first implementation team meeting, on 25 September 1996, the launch date was set for 4 November 1996. Gary Gordon, Manager, Operations, joined the team in early October 1996.\n\nThe team focused on a choice for borrowers of two interest rates: a 0% mortgage where the borrower could borrow up to 25% of the value of property and give up appreciation worth three times the percentage borrowed, i.e. up to 75%, and a 5.75% mortgage where the borrower could borrow up to 75% of the value of property and give up appreciation at the same percentage as the percentage borrowed.\n\nFor the investor, the 5.75% SAMs would be securitized into fixed rate bonds with a fixed interest rate of about 55% of the 10-year gilt yield (a gilt is a UK government bond). The 0% SAMs would be securitized into floating rate bonds with a variable interest rate of about 60% of the three month Libor (London Inter-bank Offered Rate, an interest rate average calculated from estimates submitted by the leading banks in London). The interest would be paid quarterly, and would consist of the fixed or floating element plus an additional element from SAMs terminated in that quarter. The debt was amortized (reduced) each quarter as the number of homes with SAMs reduced. Therefore the ratio of the interest to the debt would gradually increase, and the benefit of this would compensate for the bonds not having a fixed term.\n\nSAMs would be less risky for investment than equity (a share of ownership), they would be long term, and their earnings would be linked to house prices, which historically performed better than inflation but not as well as shares. Consequently, they were expected to appeal to pension funds, property funds and equity investors.\n\nAll of the debt and equity of the SAMs would go to the bondholders, with Bank of Scotland receiving a fee. Money from the mortgages coming into Bank of Scotland would be cleared monthly or weekly to SBC. To keep funds associated with SAMs separate from its other funds, Bank of Scotland set up an independent company for each SAM. BoS acted as an agent for each BoS SAM and legal charges were in the name of the BoS SAM rather than BoS. Separate companies had to be set up for interest-bearing and zero-interest Scottish SAMs: BoS SAM 3 and BoS SAM 4. One of the English companies securitized the assets.\n\nThe implementation team attempted to anticipate any problems. At their second meeting in early October, they were alerted by the IT people to the fact that Unisys, one of the bank's IT systems, could only process loans of up to 50 years, whereas the SAM was open-ended, until the sale of the property or the death of the owner. Nor could Unisys process an interest rate of 0%. There was also concern that with a separate company for each SAM, overnight processing might overrun, especially at the end of the month. The processing capacity was therefore upgraded, with a separate system for mortgages to avoid affecting the other systems.\n\nProperty valuations were important because appreciation was calculated on the difference between the initial valuation and the final valuation of a property. Countrywide was appointed to administer the panel of valuers.\n\nAt the team meeting on 9 October 1996, it was decided to launch on 11 November, following an announcement in The Sunday Times on 4 November. There was also a press leak in a Sunday newspaper on 20 October. The product was launched before contracts with SBC Warburg had been finalised and before terms and conditions had been copy written. By the launch date the bank was already receiving about 2,000 phone calls per day, with most of the callers interested in the 0% option, and 2,500 people had requested more information. Demand was much greater than expected: by the second week of December they had run out of brochures.\n\nBoS SAM 1 and BoS SAM 2 were sold in England, with the first moneys drawn on 31 December 1996. For the BoS SAM 1, 5.75% option, bonds worth £27.2m were issued; for the BoS SAM 2, 0% option, bonds worth £105.6m were issued. Unexpectedly, investors did not include pension funds. Borrowers had been expected to be in their seventies, but most of them were in their fifties or sixties.\n\nSAMs 3 and 4, for Scotland, could not be launched until the securitization of SAMs 1 and 2 had been completed, and they were also delayed by the different legal system in Scotland. They were introduced in mid-February 1997 and took longer to place with investors than SAMs 1 and 2. During the preparations for SAMs 5 and 6, SBC Warburg merged with Union Bank of Switzerland. The merger was announced on 8 December 1997 and created UBS AG. Investors could not be found for SAMs 5 and 6, which had to be taken up by SBC Warburg itself. Bank of Scotland hoped that UBS/SBC Warburg would find new investors for the SAMs, but instead had to withdraw the product.\n\nBoS SAMs 2, 4 and 6 were 0% interest mortgages, with the lender's percentage share of the appreciation being three times the percentage ratio of the loan to the initial value of the property (LTV).\n\nIn March 1998, after Bank of Scotland had withdrawn their product, Barclays Bank launched their shared appreciation mortgage. Like Bank of Scotland's zero-interest mortgage, the maximum loan to property value ratio (LTV) was 25%, no interest was charged, and the lender's share of the appreciation was three times the LTV. Barclays sold 3,253 SAMs between May and July 1998. Barclays Capital securitized the mortgages in 1999 through Millshaw SAMS No 1 Ltd, a £97.84m triple-A rated zero coupon bond, which was a 55-year deal. The take-up by investors was slow, but institutions bought the bonds for their high returns.\n\nOn 11 July 1998 the Financial Times reported that shared appreciation mortgages were temporarily off the market after demand from borrowers had exceeded the supply of money from the bonds market. £750m worth of bonds had been sold by Bank of Scotland and Barclays Bank. Shared appreciation mortgages did not subsequently return to the market.\n\nWhen house prices increased and the appreciation became much greater than the initial value of the properties, the borrowers owed the investors the majority of the value of their properties and were left with only a small proportion of the value for themselves.\n\nThe Bank of Scotland Shared Appreciation Mortgage was selected as one of 1,012 Millennium Products by the Design Council. The Millennium Product concept was launched by Prime Minister Tony Blair in September 1997 and the full and final list was unveiled by him in December 1999. He hailed the Millennium Products companies as \"the very best of British innovation, creativity and design.\" The Bank of Scotland Shared Appreciation Mortgage was described by the Design Council as \"A mortgage which allows you to release cash tied up in your house for 0% interest payments, in return for a share in any appreciation in value from the sale of the home.\" The description does not state the size of the share in the appreciation in the value of the home. By the time the final list of Millennium Products was announced in December 1999, Shared Appreciation Mortgages were no longer being offered for sale by either Bank of Scotland or Barclays Bank.\n\nOn page 10 of the BoS SAM No. 4 PLC sales booklet, there is an example of a shared appreciation mortgage based on a loan of £30,000, an initial house value of £120,000, repayment of the mortgage after 20 years, and fees totalling £1,890, and assuming average house price inflation of 4.5% per annum. The APR (Annual Percentage Rate) of this mortgage is 8.7%. The quoted repayment, including the initial loan (£30,000), the shared appreciation (£127,054), the arrangement fee (£500), the legal fees (£600), the valuation fees on entry and exit (£490), and an administration fee (£300), is £158,944.\n\nOn page 5 of the same document there is another example of a shared appreciation mortgage. This is based on a loan of £20,000, an initial property value (\"base value\") of £100,000 and a final property value (\"exit value\") of £150,000. The quoted repayment, including the initial loan (£20,000) and the shared appreciation (£30,000), but not including the exit valuation fee and the administration fee (£300), is £50,000. This repayment is much less than the repayments that are actually being made. The example does not give the number of years of the mortgage, but if it is assumed to be 20 years, as in the example on page 10, the average house price inflation of the example is 2.0% and the APR is 4.7%. This example therefore assumes different average house price inflation from the example on page 10. The BoS SAM No. 6 PLC sales booklet is very similar to the BoS SAM No. 4 PLC sales booklet, but most of the example on page 5 has been removed.\n\nOn page 5 of the Barclays Bank Shared Appreciation Mortgages sales booklet there are three examples of shared appreciation mortgages. They are based on loans of £15,000, £20,000 and £25,000, an original property valuation of £100,000 and a final property valuation of £150,000. The quoted repayments, including the initial loan and the shared appreciation, but not including any legal fees or other costs, are £37,500, £50,000 and £62,500. These repayments are much less than the repayments that are actually being made.The examples do not give the number of years of the mortgage, but if it is assumed to be 20 years, the average house price inflation of the examples is 2.0% and the APR is 4.7%.\n\nThe Agreement between Barclays SAMS Limited (the \"Lender\") and the \"Borrower\" states that it is a Credit Agreement Regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.\n\nThe Agreement gives an example of a Shared Appreciation Mortgage, based on a Total Loan of £20,000, an Original Property Valuation of £120,000, Property Valuation before redemption of £140,000, and repayment of the loan after just two years. The Total Loan is 16.6% of the Original Property Valuation and the repayment would be (3 × 16.6% × £20,000) + £20,000 = £29,960 (Barclays' figures), i.e. 21.4% of the final valuation. The average house price inflation is 8.0% and the APR is 22.4%. The percentage ratio of the loan to the final valuation, the average house price inflation, and the APR are distorted by the unrealistically short two-year term of the loan. The repayment of £29,960 is much lower than the repayments that are actually being made.\n\nBarclays used a checklist titled \"Barclays Mortgage Service\" when they were discussing a mortgage with prospective borrowers. \"Y/N\" was printed against 18 statements for \"Y\" or \"N\" to be circled by hand as appropriate. None of the statements included any recommendation to seek legal or other independent advice, or any recommendation to discuss the mortgage with their family.\n\nThe UK House Price Index for all property types (detached houses, semi-detached houses, terraced houses, flats and maisonettes) increased from £65,092 in July 1997 to £224,719 in July 2017 (20 years), which was average house price inflation of 6.4% per annum, and from £72,795 in July 1998 to £231,187 in July 2018 (20 years), which was average house price inflation of 5.9% per annum. In July 2019 the UK House Price Index was £232,710.\n\nIn the 1990s, mortgages were not fully regulated. Banks operated voluntarily under the Banking Code, and mortgage lenders operated voluntarily under the Mortgage Lenders Code. As a condition of operating under the Banking Code, banks had to sign up to the Financial Ombudsman Service, which has legal powers to put things right if customers have been treated unfairly.\n\nAlthough Barclays Bank and the Bank of Scotland marketed Shared Appreciation Mortgages under their company branding, they set up separate companies to administer and issue the mortgages. These separate companies were not signatories to the Banking Code, and so the Financial Ombudsman Service was not able to investigate customers' complaints about Shared Appreciation Mortgages.\n\nHowever Barclays' booklet on Shared Appreciation Mortgages says on the back cover, under the heading \"THE MORTGAGE CODE AND THE BANKING CODE\", \"Barclays is committed to The Mortgage Code and The Banking Code, both of which set out the commitments and standards of banks in dealing with their customers. As such, we ensure that our products and services comply with the terms of both Codes. The Mortgage Code relates specifically to the service we provide, the provision of information regarding our mortgage products and services and how they operate.\"\n\nThe Mortgage Code came into effect on 1 July 1997 for lenders and on 30 April 1998 for mortgage intermediaries. It remained in force until 31 October 2004, when the Financial Services Authority's Mortgage Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) came into force. The standards of the Code are encompassed in ten key commitments, which include helping customers to understand the financial implications of a mortgage.\n\nThe Financial Services Authority (FSA) did not start to regulate mortgage business until 31 October 2004. The FSA was replaced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2013.\n\nThe Consumer Credit Act 1974 significantly reformed the law relating to consumer credit.\n\nThe Consumer Credit Act 2006 extended the scope of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, created the Financial Ombudsman scheme, and increased the powers of the Office of Fair Trading. It permits borrowers to challenge unfair debtor-creditor relationships in court. Some shared appreciation mortgage customers and their families consider that the arrangement whereby a loan which is 25% of the initial value of a property is repaid by 75% of the appreciation in the value of the property, plus the amount of the loan, could be an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. \n\nThe Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999, Regulation 7, states that a seller or supplier shall ensure that any written term of a contract is expressed in plain, intelligible language and that if there is doubt about the meaning of a written term, the interpretation which is most favourable to the consumer shall prevail. Regulation 8 provides that an unfair term \"shall not be binding upon the consumer\", where an unfair term is one which causes a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the consumer.\n\nIn October 1997 Harold Fisher and his wife borrowed £90,000 from Bank of Scotland under its Shared Appreciation Mortgage Scheme. By year three of the loan, Mr Fisher realised that the large increase in house prices meant that their debt to Bank of Scotland had increased by a much greater amount. He wrote to the bank to express his fears but they said he had signed the contract.\n\nMr Fisher then took his claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service, which ruled against him. They said that in Shared Appreciation Mortgage disputes, they usually ruled in favour of the banks.\n\nAnother couple who borrowed money from Bank of Scotland under its Shared Appreciation Mortgage Scheme, £72,000, were Geoffrey Cooke and his wife. Mr Cooke was planning to make an application to the High Court in September 2003 to have their mortgage contract dealt with under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1994 (and amendments). He thought there was evidence that the entry and exit procedures from the loan breached statute law and European Union law.\n\nAfter The Times reported on Geoffrey Cooke's case in August 2003, they said they were inundated with letters, telephone calls and e-mails from readers who similarly ended up facing crippling debts.\n\nAs the Financial Ombudsman Service was ineffective, Shared Appreciation Mortgage customers contacted their Members of Parliament and in 2003 created the Shared Appreciation Mortgage Victims Action Group (SAMVIC), a body of 500 homeowners who felt that they had been deceived by lenders into taking on debts that were now exorbitant, to coordinate legal action against the banks.\n\nThe House of Commons Standard Note SN/BT/3414 \"Shared Appreciation Mortgages\", written by Timothy Edmonds and last updated on 12 December 2013, says, \"There have been a significant number of debates in the House about equity release mortgages in general and SAMS in particular, as the consequences of policies taken out some years ago now come to be appreciated.\"\n\nA pensions Green Paper, \"Simplicity, Security and Choice: Working and Saving for Retirement\", was published in December 2002. It stated that the Treasury would be \"looking at options to create a level playing field for the regulation of equity release and home reversion plans to protect consumers and make the market work better\".\n\nThere was a general debate on 14 January 2003 in an adjournment debate in Westminster Hall launched by Angela Browning. During the debate, a number of members specifically mentioned Shared Appreciation Mortgages, including Vince Cable, Stephen O'Brien and the then Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Ruth Kelly.\n\nDuring her speech, Ruth Kelly said, \"I am pleased to say that, when the FSA's mortgage regulation comes into force, the proposed advice and disclosure regime will enable borrowers to become fully aware of the implications of all equity release loans before they take a decision on the right one for them... In the meantime, if Hon. Members' constituents believe that they have been badly advised, or that their mortgage was missold, and, assuming that all internal complaints procedures have been completed, they may be able to seek redress from the Financial Ombudsman Service.\"\n\nIn June 2003 the then Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Paul Boateng, initiated a consultation and in the following month he announced in response to oral questions, \"All mortgage-based equity release schemes will be regulated by the Financial Services Authority with effect from 31 October 2004.\"\n\nHe also said, \"... he is right to point out that a mortgage is one of the biggest financial decisions that a consumer makes. Equity release falls into that category too. They are very significant financial decisions. It is absolutely essential to protect consumers adequately. Indeed, I should point out that the FSA is the only statutory regulator in the world, as far as we aware, that has consumer protection as one of its statutory objectives. As he knows, there will be better protection for consumers when the regulation of mortgages and mortgage advice comes into force on 31 October 2004. The new regime will give the borrower greater confidence in the decisions that he or she is making.\"\n\nDuring a further debate held in December 2003 in Westminster Hall, the Financial Secretary said, \"... the FSA will regulate the selling of mortgages by first legal charges on UK property where at least 40% is residential accommodation to be occupied by the borrower or their immediate family. That definition was derived following consultation and is designed to protect loans when a person's home may be at risk as a result of being sold an unsuitable product.\"\n\nThe outcome of the consultation initiated by the then Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Paul Boateng, was announced by the then Financial Secretary, Ruth Kelly, on 10 May 2004. It was that Home Reversion plans would be regulated by the FSA. Under Home Reversion plans, part of the house is sold to the lender and part of the ownership of the property passes to the lender, whereas under Shared Appreciation Mortgages, full ownership is retained by the borrower.\n\nIn June 2007 Barclays launched the Barclays Shared Appreciation Mortgage (SAM) Hardship Scheme. According to Barclays, it was designed to assist customers who were in a situation of substantial hardship due to a change in circumstances, and needed either to move to a more suitable property or to adapt their existing home to make it suitable to their needs, but were unable to do so due to their Shared Appreciation Mortgage. It was aimed to help customers who were genuinely facing hardship and therefore not everyone would be eligible.\n\nThe Barclays Hardship Scheme would provide an interest-free loan to make up the difference between the amount of money the borrower would have after selling his or her existing home, and the amount of money the borrower would need to buy a new home, up to 50% of the value of the new home. The loan would be repayable on the sale of the new home, which would probably be on the death of the borrower.\n\nThe Bank of Scotland did not set up a formal hardship scheme, but said they would look at each individual case on application.\n\nThe Shared Appreciation Mortgage Action Group (SAMAG) was set up in 2009 by Hilary Messer, who was then head of litigation at RWP Solicitors (Richard Wilson Pangbourne), based in Reading, Berkshire. Over 300 Shared Appreciation Mortgage customers paid £5,000 each, a total of £1.5m, towards legal fees for a class action. Hilary Messer said that recent changes to the Consumer Credit Act made it possible to sue the banks over the mortgages. Under the act, the changes to which were retrospective, if a court determined that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor was unfair to the debtor, it had wide powers to vary the terms of the loan agreement. A legal letter before action was sent to the banks in January 2009. A Group Litigation Order (GLO) was sought at a hearing on 14 July 2009 and it was made in the High Court on 5 October 2009, enabling the Shared Appreciation Mortgage customers to take legal action as a group against the banks.\n\nThe banks appealed against the decision that allowed the case to be heard and, with a different judge, won their appeal. The customers' solicitors needed more money, which the customers did not have, and so they had to withdraw their case. The customers then became liable for the banks' costs.\n\nThe banks agreed to waive their costs if the customers made legal agreements (\"gagging orders\") not to make any further complaints about their Shared Appreciation Mortgages. The Shared Appreciation Mortgage Action Group (SAMAG) was dissolved and became part of the wider Struggle Against Financial Exploitation (SAFE) action group.\n\nThe solicitors Teacher Stern are planning to make a claim against Bank of Scotland and Barclays Bank for compensation relating to Shared Appreciation Mortgages that were sold between 1996 and 1998. The claim was being organised by Chris Philpot until he left Teacher Stern in October 2018. David Bowman and Kira Lipinski have taken over from him. There was an article written by Sarah Davidson and published on the thisismoney.co.uk website on 16 November 2018 saying that the claim is set to start in 2019. According to the article, Teacher Stern were going to write to Barclays and Bank of Scotland, and to third party firms that purchased the SAMs. The banks would have the opportunity to respond, and if they engaged constructively there might be settlement discussions arranged on a case by case basis. If not, the claim would proceed to court. The article says there is still time for borrowers or relatives of borrowers to join the action.\n\nAs well as many reports concerning Shared Appreciation Mortgages in the national newspapers, there were reports in the August 2003 edition of Which?, the magazine of the Consumers' Association, and in the September 2006 and August 2007 editions of Saga Magazine.\n\nA BBC Inside Out South investigation into Shared Appreciation Mortgages, presented by Nick Wallis, was broadcast on BBC One on 8 September 2014. One of the people interviewed on the programme by Nick Wallis was Dr Julian Lewis, Member of Parliament for New Forest East in Hampshire.\n\nChristopher Philpot, Senior Associate in Teacher Stern's dispute resolution department, was interviewed on the BBC's One Show on 3 April 2017 in relation to the claim being organised against the Bank of Scotland and Barclays. There were also reports concerning Shared Appreciation Mortgages on the BBC Radio 4 Money Box\nprogramme on 27 September 2008, 22 April 2017 and 23 September 2017.\n\nThere is also a Facebook page: Shared appreciation mortgages Scandal\n\nA shared appreciation mortgage is a mortgage in which the lender agrees to an interest rate lower than the prevailing market rate, in exchange for a share of the appreciated value of the collateral property. The share of the appreciated value is known as the \"contingent interest\", which is determined and due at the sale of the property or at the termination of the mortgage.\n\nFor instance, suppose the current prevailing interest rate is 6%, and the property was purchased for $500,000. The borrower puts down $100,000 and takes out a mortgage of $400,000 amortized over 30 years. The lender and the borrower agree to a lower interest rate of 5%, and to a contingent interest of 20% of appreciated value of the property. Because of the lower interest rate, the monthly payment is reduced from $2,398 to $2,147. However, this saving in monthly payments comes with a trade-off. Suppose the property is later sold for $700,000. Because of the agreement on the contingent interest, the borrower must pay the lender 20% of the profit, namely, $40,000.\n\nBy participating in the appreciation of the property, the lender takes an additional risk that is related to its value. Hence, whether this is a favorable trade-off depends on the conditions of the housing market. A shared appreciation mortgage differs from an equity-sharing agreement in that the principal of the loan is an unconditional obligation (to the extent collateralized by the property). Thus, if the property's value decreases, the borrower would still owe whatever principal is outstanding, and if the borrower sells the property for a loss, the contingent interest is simply zero.\n\nRevenue Ruling 83-51 (1983) of the Internal Revenue Service specifies conditions under which the contingent interest in a shared appreciation mortgage may be considered tax-deductible mortgage interest. In particular, a shared appreciation mortgage must stipulate an unconditional obligation of payment of principal to avoid being recharacterized as an equity-sharing agreement, which may lead to different tax consequences. Because of the complexity of tax laws and terms tailored for individual situations, private, noncommercial mortgages involving shared appreciation should always be executed with the counsel of a real estate attorney.\n\nShared Appreciation clauses are also used by non-profits and local governmental agencies. These shared appreciation loans are structured as second mortgages, but are considered \"silent\" in that borrowers make no payments until they sell the home (or, in some cases, refinance the first mortgage). At the time of sale or refinance, the family is required to repay the full amount of the loan plus a portion of the home price appreciation.\n\nIn this way, the amount returned to the subsidizing entity is based on increases in home prices, which helps to preserve the \"buying power\" of public subsidies.\n\nOne common approach to designing shared appreciation loan programs is to base the share of appreciation payable upon sale of the home on the share of the original purchase price that was subsidized.\n\nFor example, if a family received a $50,000 subsidy to buy a $250,000 home, the family would be required to give the community 20 percent ($50,000 divided by $250,000) of any home price appreciation at the time of sale, in addition to repaying the initial $50,000.\n\nAdditional limitations on the shared appreciation can be placed, such as a usury limitation of a maximum of 6% effective interest on the money lent, as is the case in the down payment assistance offered by the City of Seattle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947939", "title": "Mount Saskatchewan (Yukon)", "text": "Mount Saskatchewan (Yukon)\n\nMount Saskatchewan () is a mountain in the extreme southwestern corner of Yukon in Kluane National Park and Reserve. The peak was named in 1967 for the province of Saskatchewan to mark Canada's centennial.\nAs of 2012, the mountain is the only peak named after a Canadian province or territory – there are 11 others in the Yukon's Centennial Range – that remains unclimbed.\n\nThe first attempt to climb the mountain was made in 1967 as part of the centennial celebrations. A team from Saskatchewan made a second attempt in May 2005 to celebrate the centennial of the province. However, warmer than usual weather conditions and difficulties in finding a relatively safe route rebuffed the attempt, which was made after a 35-km glacial approach. A third unsuccessful attempt was made in 2007.\n\nIn 2012, a team from Saskatchewan composed of Steve Whittington, Jeff Dmytrowich, Sam Unger and Wren Rabut attempted to climb the peak, with the same base camp as was used in 1967. Their attempt commenced on May 18, but the group was forced to turn back after climbing to about . Numerous crevasse falls and weather conditions hampered the group's efforts to reach the summit.\n\nIn early spring 2013 the Swedish team of Benny Elofsson, Joel Johansson and Axel Palmcrantz tried to climb Mt. Saskatchewan from north via Chitina Glacier. They did not find a secure route and had to abandon their climb of the mountain. Two other, presumably unclimbed peaks nearby were summited instead.\n"}
{"id": "1947947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947947", "title": "Memorial Day massacre of 1937", "text": "Memorial Day massacre of 1937\n\nIn the Memorial Day massacre of 1937, the Chicago Police Department shot and killed ten unarmed demonstrators in Chicago, on May 30, 1937. The incident took place during the Little Steel strike in the United States.\n\nThe incident arose after U.S. Steel signed a union contract but smaller steel manufacturers (called 'Little Steel'), including Republic Steel, refused to do so. In protest, the Steel Workers Organizing Committee (SWOC) of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) called a strike.\n\nOn Memorial Day, hundreds of sympathizers gathered at Sam's Place, a former tavern and dance hall at 113th Street and Green Bay Avenue, that served as the headquarters of the SWOC. As the crowd marched across the prairie towards the Republic Steel mill, a line of Chicago policemen blocked their path. The foremost protestors argued their right to continue. The police, \"feeling threatened,\" fired on the crowd. As the crowd fled, police shot and killed ten people, four dying that day and six others subsequently from their injuries. Nine people were permanently disabled and another 28 had serious head injuries from police clubbing.\n\nIn the book \"Selected Writings\" by Dorothy Day (who was present), the events of the protest are summarized as thus: 'On Memorial Day, May 30, 1937, police opened fire on a parade of striking steel workers and their families at the gate of the Republic Steel Company, in South Chicago. Fifty people were shot, of whom 10 later died; 100 others were beaten with clubs.'\n\nYears later, one of the protesters, Mollie West, recalled a policeman yelling to her that day, \"Get off the field or I'll put a bullet in your back.\" No policemen were ever prosecuted.\n\nA Coroner's Jury declared the killings to be \"justifiable homicide\". The press often called it a labor or red riot. President Roosevelt responded to a union plea, \"The majority of people are saying just one thing, ′A plague on both your houses′\"\n\nA memorial plaque at the base of a flagpole with the names of the 10 people who were killed is located at 11731 South Avenue O, the former United Steel Workers Local 1033 union hall, which is now occupied by the United Auto Workers Local 3212. Thirty years to the day of the massacre, it was dedicated on May 30, 1967.\n\nThe Republic Steel Memorial Day Massacre Sculpture, created by former Republic Steel employee Edward Blazak, was dedicated in 1981. Originally located near the main gate at 116th Street and Burley Avenue, it was rededicated in 2008 and relocated to 11659 South Avenue O, at the southwest corner of the grounds of a Chicago Fire Department station housing Engine #104.\n\nIn the wake of the massacre, the news reel of the event was suppressed for fear of creating, in the words of an official at Paramount News agency, \"mass hysteria.\" This footage demonstrated that the massacre was a police riot.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947950", "title": "Zig and Zag (Australian performers)", "text": "Zig and Zag (Australian performers)\n\nJack Perry (1917 – c. April 2006) and Douglas McKenzie (22 March 19184 August 2004) — were an entertainer duo from Melbourne who were known and billed professionally as the clown act, Zig and Zag. They appeared on Australian television from its inception in 1956 to 1999 beginning with \"Peters Fun Fair\" (1956–69). They featured on the annual Moomba parade (a community festival), and were regulars at annual charity events including the Good Friday Appeal for the Royal Children's Hospital. Perry was also an actor on television serials and presenter whilst McKenzie, was also a radio and television presenter and producer and former soldier. In March 1999 the duo permanently parted company after it was revealed that Jack Perry had been convicted in 1994 of indecent assault on his granddaughter.\n\nZig and Zag were the clown duo of Jack Perry and Doug McKenzie; they began performing together in the 1950s in Melbourne. Before 1939 McKenzie was a junior announcer on Melbourne radio station, then known as 3XY. By 1952, he was voicing advertisements dressed as a clown with a young Bert Newton. This led to Zig and Zag regularly appearing on a Saturday morning children's show hosted by Frank Thring, alongside Newton and disc jockey, Stan Rofe. The clown duo first worked on their own show on 3XY's \"Tye's Radio Revue\" on Sundays and \"Peters Town Hall Show\" on Thursdays. In March 1956 they drove a toy car at their first Moomba parade and were crowd favourites at the annual festival.\n\nOn 10 November 1956 local TV station HSV7 broadcast the first episode of \"Peters Fun Fair\", with the duo as its stars in the first children's session televised in Australia. They dressed in costumes advertising Peters Ice Cream, with the slogan, \"the health food of a nation\", and used the catchphrase, \"No-o-o trouble\". Zig and Zag added their theme song, \"You and Me\", to their act in the late 1950s. It was written by Tommy Steele and was originally performed by Steele and Jimmy Edwards in the 1958 London pantomime production of Rodgers and Hammerstein's \"Cinderella\". \"Peters Fun Fair\" also featured Roy Lyons as Cousin Roy, and continued for 13 years.\n\nTo the TV generation of impressionable children, they are remembered as the slightly naughty duo who broke the King Street Bridge: after a structural failure in July 1962 they filmed a segment for their show where they dropped a coconut and pretended to crack the bridge, albeit accidentally. Zig and Zag also appeared on the annual HSV7 Good Friday Appeal, a telethon for Royal Children's Hospital, for more than forty years.\n\nIn February 1999, Zig and Zag were named as Moomba Monarchs, a festival that they had been associated with for 44 years, but they were stood down before being crowned in March. Revelations of Perry's indecent assaults on his granddaughter, from his 1994 trial, were broadcast on current affairs show \"Today Tonight\". Since the duo's act was always aimed at children, it was irreparably ruined, and after the scandal, McKenzie never spoke to Perry again.\n\nDouglas McKenzie (Zag) was born on 22 March 1918 in Gloucester, England. He later recalled that his father was \"in heavy drama, graduated to producing, and finally wrote his own shows.\" His mother, Violet (née Viola Rene), was a soprano; the couple toured as a pantomime act and visited New Zealand before settling in Australia.\n\nMcKenzie enlisted in the Australian Army on 12 July 1940 during World War II and, seven months after the fall of Singapore, became a prisoner of war at Changi. As a corporal, McKenzie, and another prisoner, Bill West, annually ran a mock version of the Melbourne Cup in the prison by using bull frogs. In 1942 his frog, Greenbottle, won the mock cup trophy: made of cardboard, which McKenzie cherished upon return to Australia in 1945 (see photo opposite). He was discharged on 17 January 1946.\n\nWhilst appearing on-air as Zag, he also produced many programs for HSV7, including \"Club 7\", \"Hold Everything\" and \"Junior Jamboree\". In 2002 McKenzie was the inaugural recipient of Variety's Heart of Show Business Award. Doug Christie, chairman of Variety, the children's charity, said that McKenzie was awarded for his long service to \"Melbourne's entertainment industry and his commitment to children's charity\". McKenzie died on 4 August 2004, aged 86.\n\nJack Perry (Zig) was born in 1917. During World War II he worked for Sutton Tool & Gauge, which was listed as \"essential services\" and so he did not enlist in the armed forces. After the war he turned to radio and, for 20 weeks, worked on 3UZ's \"Are You an Artist?\". He later worked as an adult comedian at coffee lounges. By May 1958 he was married with three children.\n\nPerry made many TV appearances outside his clown character, including as an actor in drama series such as \"Homicide\", \"Division 4\" (1970), \"Matlock Police\" (1971) and \"Prisoner\" (in nine episodes from 1979 to 1985). He had a supporting role in the feature film, \"Dimboola\" (1979). Perry appeared in the 1997 TV series, \"State Coroner\". In November 2006, it was reported that Perry had died in April, aged around 88–89, with furniture marked \"Heritage\" and \"Once belonged to Zig the Clown\" being sold by the Salvation Army's South Melbourne store. His vintage Peters Ice Cream cylindrical hat was held at Australian Centre for the Moving Image museum, in Federation Square, it apparently dates back to the 1950s\n\nIn March 1999 Zig and Zag stood down from the Moomba festival after they had been announced as Moomba Monarchs. It was disclosed that, in 1994, at Heidelberg Magistrates' Court, Perry had \"pleaded guilty to seven counts of unlawful indecent assault against his granddaughter\", Debra Clark, which had occurred \"from the age of 12, between 1979 and 1981, while she lived with her grandparents\". In 1999 other allegations of indecent assault of children also surfaced. Clark revealed that she had been indecently assaulted, by Perry, during an interview with Tracee Hutchison on television current affairs show, \"Today Tonight\" just before Perry (as Zig) with McKenzie (as Zag), were due to be crowned. The Moomba committee was devastated, and announced that there would be no replacement for the duo. Subsequent festivals had no monarch until 2010 when singer, Kate Ceberano, and music commentator, Molly Meldrum, were announced as Queen and King of Moomba respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947958", "title": "Anne Wheeler", "text": "Anne Wheeler\n\nAnne Wheeler, OC, (born September 23, 1946) is a Canadian film and television writer, producer, and director. Graduating in Mathematics from the University of Alberta she was a computer programmer before traveling abroad. Her years of travels inspired her to become a storyteller and when she returned she joined a group of old friends to form a film collective. From 1975 to 1985 she worked for the NFB where she made her first feature film, \"A War Story\" (1981), which was about her father, Ben Wheeler and his time as a doctor in a P.O.W. camp during World War II. The war is a common theme in her work and she revisited it later in her films \"Bye Bye Blues\" (1989) and \"The War Between Us\" (1995). Her first non-NFB film was \"Loyalties\" in 1986.\n\nIn addition to her films, Wheeler has directed episodes of \"Cold Squad\", \"Da Vinci's Inquest\", \"Mysterious Ways\", \"This Is Wonderland\" and \"The Guard\".\n\nWheeler has been nominated four times for the Genie Award for Best Achievement in Direction for her films \"Loyalties\" (1986), \"Cowboys Don't Cry\" (1988), \"Bye Bye Blues\" (1989), and \"Suddenly Naked\" (2001). Her 1998 television miniseries, \"The Sleep Room\", won Gemini awards for best television movie and best direction.\n\nIn 2017 Wheeler won a Leo Award for Best Direction (Television Film) for the Hallmark movie \"Stop the Wedding\".\n\nWheeler was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1995. In 2012 she received the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal. Wheeler has also been awarded seven honorary doctorates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947972", "title": "Pierre Menard", "text": "Pierre Menard\n\nPierre Menard (7 October 1766 – 13 June 1844) was a fur trader and U.S. political figure. Pierre Menard was born at St. Antoine-sur-Richelieu, near Montreal, Canada, third in a family of ten children. His father was Jean Baptiste Ménard, a French soldier in the regiment of Guyenne.\n\nResident in the Illinois Country by the end of the 18th century, Marnard became a successful businessman. He served in the legislature of the Indiana Territory, and then presided over the Illinois Territory Council. He was elected the first Lieutenant Governor of the State of Illinois in 1818.\n\nAfter a short period of formal schooling in Montreal, Pierre, at about age fifteen, signed on with a trading expedition to the vast Illinois Country. By the early 1790s Menard had established a solid trading business of his own; his Kaskaskia business ledgers first recorded transactions, beginning in the spring of 1791. He was granted a St. Clair County commercial license in 1793 at the age of thirty, while already a respected entrepreneur.\n\nIn 1792 Menard married Thérèse Godin, who died in 1804 leaving four children. Two years later, he married Angélique Saucier, granddaughter of François Saucier, Engineer General in the French army and construction supervisor of nearby Fort de Chartres. Eight children were born to Pierre and Angélique.\n\nMenard was a member of the Indiana Territorial Legislature, 1803–1809, and president of the Illinois Territorial Council 1812–1818.\n\nThe Illinois Territory was a frontier region of the United States, formerly part of the Illinois Country, a portion of New France administered originally from Quebec and later transferred to Louisiana. Upon the admission of Illinois as a state in 1818, the population of the new state was divided between French-speaking and English-speaking citizens. To balance the ticket, Menard became the state's first Lieutenant Governor, serving from 1818 to 1822 with the first governor, Shadrach Bond.\n\nEconomic forces, however, were already leading people inland from the French-speaking areas along the Mississippi River, and largely to promote real estate interests, the first Illinois General Assembly decided in 1820 to move the state capital from Kaskaskia, Menard's home town, to Vandalia.\n\nMenard left office in 1822 and returned to private life. He died in 1844 and was buried at Fort Kaskaskia, near his house.\n\nMenard County, Illinois is named for the Lieutenant Governor. His house, near Chester, Illinois, is preserved as the Pierre Menard Home State Historic Site.\n\nBayou Manard (spelled with two a's), a branch of the Arkansas River, was named for Pierre Menard.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947973", "title": "Acid Horse", "text": "Acid Horse\n\nAcid Horse was a one-off collaborative side project between two industrial music pioneers, Ministry and Cabaret Voltaire. Only one single, \"No Name, No Slogan\", was released in 1989 on Wax Trax! Records. The band name is a combination of the slang terms for LSD (acid) and heroin (horse), as well as a play on the title of the then-popular acid house movement.\n\nAs with many other Ministry side projects, such as PTP and the Revolting Cocks, the band member's identities are masked by pseudonyms. The members are as follows:\n\n\nMusically, Acid Horse resembles fellow Ministry side project PTP, in that it blends an upbeat dance-like electronic rhythm with catchy guitar-work. The lyrics come off in a serious, yet slightly comical tone - a trademark of many Ministry side projects. While \"Goldmine\" author Jo-Ann Greene said \"No Name, No Slogan\" is \"strangely reminiscent\" of English synthpop duo Blancmange's 1983 single \"Blind Vision\", \"Option\" editor Sandy Masuo likened it to \"an unlikely collision of house-style mixing and spaghetti western ambience à la Ennio Morricone\"; in the said magazine's article, Jourgensen says that despite the collaboration gave an opportunity to work with the industrial scene's prominent acts, it ended up to be disappointing:\n"}
{"id": "1947989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947989", "title": "Youth Emergency Shelter", "text": "Youth Emergency Shelter\n\nThe YES Shelter For Youth and Families, formerly known as the Youth Emergency Shelter is located in the city of Peterborough, Ontario, Canada. It is a homeless shelter for males and females between the ages of 16 and 24 as well as families. After over 40 years of planning, YES opened its doors on December 20, 2002. The official opening of the shelter occurred in February 2003 and was attended by both local and federal politicians including the Honourable Jane Stewart. While YES is a shelter for homeless youth and families, it is also an umbrella organization for other programs concerning this group of at-risk youth.\n\nYES is open and staffed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The shelter provides homeless youth and families with shelter, food, and support with accessing community resources in order to break the cycle of homelessness. The length of stay is determined on a case-by-case basis, but the facility is not designed to provide permanent or long-term housing. Youth who stay at the shelter are expected to develop and follow a personal service plan with concrete goals concerning housing, schooling, and employment. They are also encouraged to develop strategies to work on personal challenges, ranging from past abuse or traumatic experiences to various addictions.\n\nYES operates a second stage housing facility located in Peterborough, Ontario known as Abbott House. This facility is a 10-bed 'rooming house' style home available to youth in need of semi-supported independent living. Residents of Abbott House are eligible to stay for 1 year but must be able to function independently (buying of groceries, paying rent, etc.). An on-site 'mentor' is available to the residents of Abbott House for support in pursuing their independent living goals.\n\nCarriage House is an on-site classroom staffed by one full-time and two part-time secondary school teachers. Carriage House is available to residents of YES, Abbott House and members of the community who have problems succeeding in a traditional school environment.\n\nStreet Job was a six-month-long group work experience for 10 'street youth' between the ages of 16 and 24 who are unemployed and out of school. It was meant as an alternative to pan-handling with Street Job participants working on a number of community development projects of benefit to others in the area, while gaining much needed first job experience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947992", "title": "The Diviners", "text": "The Diviners\n\nThe Diviners is a novel by Margaret Laurence. Published by McClelland & Stewart in 1974, it was Laurence's final novel, and is considered one of the classics of Canadian literature.\n\nThe novel won the Governor General's Award for English-language fiction in 1974. The protagonist of the novel is Morag Gunn, a fiercely independent writer who grew up in Manawaka, Manitoba. Morag has a difficult relationship with her daughter Pique and her Métis lover Jules Tonnerre, and struggles to maintain her independence.\n\n\"The Diviners\" was adapted for television by Anne Wheeler, with a screenplay by Linda Svendsen, and aired on CBC Television in 1993. Sonja Smits starred as Morag, and Tom Jackson starred as Jules Tonnerre.\n\nThe book has been repeatedly banned by school boards and high schools, usually after complaints from Christian groups labelling the book blasphemous and obscene. It is a regularly featured book on the American Library Association's Freedom to Read campaign.\n\n\"The Diviners\" follows the story of fictional Canadian novelist, Morag Gunn. Morag's life is believed to be loosely based upon Laurence's personal experiences. Aritha Van Herk argues that when observing all of Laurence's work, it is evident that \"The Diviners\" explicitly connects the author's emotions, experiences, and professional development to the protagonist more than any of her other novels.\n\nThe novel begins in Morag's rural Ontario cabin. Morag wakes up one morning and finds a note from her daughter, Pique, explaining that she has left home to learn about her Metis heritage. Flashbacks explore Morag's adolescence when she embarked on a similar journey many years ago. As a novelist, Morag also struggles with her writing, and frequently questions her understanding of the world. She contemplates how words can describe the natural environment around her, but struggles without attaining success - she believes that nature is capable of both nurturing life and destroying it, and contemplates the strange duality.\n\nMorag begins to have more flashbacks. She reflects on her traumatic childhood, including the death of her parents who both died from polio, and her transition into a foster care household. Morag's foster parents, Christie and Prin, were of a significantly lower economic standing than her biological parents, and she did not treat them with respect. Christie's eccentric actions ignore social norms, and provides a platform for the novel's critique of socioeconomic class. Morag yearns to leave home, and enrolls in university, moving to Winnipeg where she initiates a relationship an older professor, Brooke Skelton. Their relationship appears normal, and they are later married.\n\nSkelton begins to verbally abuse Morag, and she begins an affair with fellow Metis and childhood friend, Jules Tonnerre. Morag attempts to become pregnant with Jules, and Pique is conceived. Her marriage with Skelton ends, and she moves to Vancouver to focus on writing.\n\nMorag produces her first novel, and then moves to England. She continues to focus on writing, but must also care for Pique. She becomes lonely and moves back to Canada, where she learns that Christie is dying.\n\nThe novel's final section returns to the present. Morag finishes her latest novel, and Pique returns home.\n\nMorag Gunn - Protagonist in \"The Diviners\", the story is told from her perspective. Gunn was born in Manawaka, a fictional town in Saskatchewan where Laurence lived and worked, and eventually moves to McConnell's Landing near the Wachakwa River. Gunn's character is fiercely independent, free spirited and throughout the story moves from various location to location in search of \"home\". Gunn's story, although told chronologically is often interspersed with Gunn's past, told in the characteristic \"Memorybank Movies\" that showcase her experience growing up in the prairies.\n\nMorag is further interested in stories of old Scottish clans, stemming from her guardian Christie's love of the past. A story that keeps repeating is that of Piper Gunn and Colin “Gunner” Gunn, the latter who saved Christie during World War I. Morag further takes inspiration from and also questions femininity in female Canadian authors such as Catharine Parr Traill, often having conversations within her head.\n\nPiquette \"Pique\" Gunn - Morag's daughter by Jules Tonnerre. Pique's character arc parallels that of Morag, growing up and exploring the world. Through her character arc Laurence depicts Pique's character as free spirited and fiercely independent, similar to Morag and Jules.\n\nJules \"Skinner\" Tonnerre - A descendant of the Metis people of Canada, specifically those of French and First Nations peoples. Jules is also independent and proud of his heritage, often seen composing songs regarding his grandfather and Louis Riel. Although Jules grows up in squalor he holds no animosity against his father and his sisters, often seen caring for them and mourning their untimely passing. Has siblings Val, Paul, Jacques and Pique, whom Piquette Gunn is later named after. Like Morag, is also interested in his heritage, often composing songs about Louis Riel and the character of Rider Tonnerre. Later in the novel forms a band with Billy Joe.\n\nChristie Logan - Morag's caretaker growing up in Manawaka. Married to Princess \"Prin\" Logan. Derisively called by the children of Manawaka as the “scavenger”, works at the garbage dump of Manawaka called the “Nuisance grounds”. Christie is proud of his work, stating that one could learn a lot from what people throw out. Morag writes that the smell of the Nuisance Grounds does not leave him – he is an inexplicable part of it.\n\nPrincess \"Prin\" Logan - Overweight adoptive mother of Morag. Daughter of a British Remittance man, forced to come and settle down in Canada. Manufactures Morag's clothes in her childhood when she goes to school. Morag writes that Prin used to have a high pitched voice, “a born whiner”\n\nBrooke Skelton – Morag's first and only marriage and committed relationship. Described as a man in his thirties with greying hair and a Professor of 17th Century Literature. Brooke reveals that he grew up in India, and came to Canada. Morag and Brooke's relationship falters eventually and Morag leaves for Vancouver. Afterwards revealed that he has married another by the name of Anne, who Morag states looked much younger than her.\n\nLazarus Tonnerre – Jules's abusive father, former war veteran.\n\nRoyland – Resident of Manawaka, one of the Diviners in Laurence's text. Is seen divining for water, and helping Morag by catching and providing them with Pickerel caught from the river. At the conclusion of the text states that he does not understand the process of divining stating that it is still a mystery to him and that he would not divine again.\n\nThe Smiths – “A-Okay”, Thomas and Maudie, Morag's neighbours and often seeking her advise on poetry\n\nDr. Paul Cates\n\nNiall Cameron\n\nLachlan MacLachlan – editor and owner of the local Manawaka newspaper\n\nSimon Pearl and Archie McVitie – Lawyers based around Manawaka\n\nMiss Melrose – From Manwaka College, encourages Morag to write poetry, although Morag notes that she is a bit “grim” (141)\n\nElla – friend to Morag, marries Mort and has two children.\n\nGord – Pique's partner\n\nMrs. Maggie Tefler – short-tempered landlady in Kitsilano, Vancouver. Runs a boarding house that Morag titles “Bleak House” that contains another resident, Old Mr. Johnson\n\nHank Masterson – representative of Wand Publishing\n\nMilward Crispin – Literary agent\n\nFan Brady – exotic snakedancer, provides Morag with lodging as she works on her writing.\n\nCarol – Teenage babysitter in Kitsilano, Vancouver\n\nHarold – broadcasters, reads the news, has an affair with Morag\n\nChas\n\nJ. Sampson – bookstore owner, “Agonistes Bookshop” in London, High Street.\n\nDaniel McRaith – Highland Scotsman who meets Morag, has an affair with and later revealed to be a father of seven children with his wife Bridie. Morag accompanies Daniel to Scotland on a symbolic pilgrimage to find out about her clan roots.\n\nHector Jonas – owner of Jacopina Chapel, funeral home in Manawaka during Christie's funeral.\n\nStacey Cameron\n\nMavis Duncan\n\nJulie Kazlik\n\nRoss McVitie\n\nMike Lobodiak\n\nAl Cates\n\nSteve Kowalski\n\nJamie Halpern\n\nEva Winkler – One of the few individuals from Manawaka that Morag likes speaking with, Winkler also takes care of Prin during her later days coping with obesity.\n\nVanessa MacLeod – a reference to Laurence's separate work, “A bird in the house” where she explores the lives of the MacLeod family. Laurence's interest is in the prairie literature and how life functions within the vastness of the Canadian landscape.\n\nCritics have argued that \"The Diviners\" is a künstlerroman (a novel that follows the growth and development of an artist, like James Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man). According to Nora Stovel, Laurence uses three methods to dramatize Morag's creative development: \"first, she employs a tripartite educational model of reading, critiquing, and writing. Moreover, she includes mentors – Christie Logan, Miss Melrose, and Brooke Skelton – who teach Morag to read and write. Most important, she embeds Morag's fictions in the narrative to illustrate her literary development\". In addition to being a künstlerroman, \"the Diviners\" is metafiction, as it dramatizes Morag's internal and external life as a writer. This is evident in the way Laurence frames the novel with “images of Morag, the writer, seated at her kitchen table in front of the window, overlooking the river, trying to write, in the Now of the novel”. These images dominate the frame sections of the novel – the first section, \"River of Now and Then,\" and the last section, \"The Diviners.\" Stovel notes that Morag reflects Laurence herself, and that she gives the reader a glimpse into her creative process through her focal character. Hence the metafictional elements of the novel can also be read as self-reflexive, as they reflect Laurence writing her novel in her cabin on the Otonabee River.\n\nAccording to scholar Brenda Beckman-Long, genre and gender are intricately linked in \"The Diviners,\" and the novel is \"a hybrid of realism, autobiographical and confessional genres\" that combine \"to establish the authority of a female perspective\". She considers the ending of the novel, which suggests that Morag's life story has come to an end as the novel reaches its conclusion, and reads the text as an autobiography. Further supporting this point are the numerous interior monologues that pervade the novel. For Beckman-Long, these passages are reminiscent of narration in a film, and she cites a specific line from the novel: \"A popular misconception is that we can’t change the past – everyone is constantly changing their own past, recalling it, revising it”. Aside from these autobiographical elements, Laurence also employs literary realism, which is evidenced by her \"ostensibly objective third-person narrator\". These techniques are blended to create Morag's life story.\n\nThe Manawaka Cycle is part of a Canadian modernist movement, and thus many of Laurence's novels make use of modernist techniques. In \"The Diviners,\" Laurence eschews linearity, and the text shifts through time and space to produce the effect of simultaneity. As a literary technique, simultaneity is characterized by the “concurrent presentation of elements from different places, multiple points-of-view, [and] radically disconnected segments of time\". For instance, the opening section of \"The Diviners\", titled \"River of Now and Then,\"suggests \"two levels of narrative\" and conveys the simultaneity of past and present. (This is also demonstrated in the novel's opening line: \"The river flowed both ways\".) Throughout the novel, past and present interweave; they are irrevocably connected so that the reader's sense of time is distorted. Finally, critic Richard Lane brings in the issue of gender, and argues that the novel “foregrounds simultaneity as a major component of écriture féminine, the protagonist Morag Gunn and her Métis daughter shifting the focus of the cycle to class, ethnicity and history\".\n\nAs scholar Sumathy Swamy articulates, \"Laurence's Manawaka novels \"The Stone Angel\" (1964), \"A Jest of God\" (1966), \"The Fire Dwellers\" (1969), and \"The Diviners\" (1974)...[have] given remarkable portraits of women fighting with their personal determination through self-assessment to find significant prototypes in their lives. Her characters, in the opening of the novels, might be victims but by the end they refuse to become victimized.\" Swamy goes onto describe that Laurence's main character, Morag, \"searches for her identity as a woman, mother and writer and as an individual in a community.\" For example, Morag learns about her sexual identity, realizing that \"in lovemaking...touch is significantly more meaningful for Morag than sight and speech.\"\n\nRace and Post-Colonialism\n\nRobert D. Chambers writes that \"Morag dares to love across racial lines, and it may be this aspect, rather than anything else, which has made \"The Diviners\" so controversial within Canada.\" Morag is a white-Canadian, while her lover, and Pique's father, is Métis. Neil ten Kortenaar claims that \"The Diviners\" is a post-colonial novel, two possible reasons being that \"it is a rejection of England and English literature in favour of a native tradition based on orality; and it is a celebration of creolization, the blending of different cultures in an indigenous mix.\" When Morag and Jules unite and Morag gives birth to Pique, the result \"is a child who carries in her veins the blood of both settlers and indigenes. Pique Tonnerre Gunn's inheritance is cultural as well as genetic. Her mother passes on to her the stories of both sides of the racial divide.\"\n\nLanguage Redefined\n\nChristl Verduyn argues that \"\"The Diviners\" comprises a movement 'against language.' By probing words' meanings, and by devices such as the use of 'memory bank movies' and photographs, Laurence includes an interrogation of language and of writing itself. This allows the novel to question itself as a 'formed/formal language.' In this way, \"The Diviners\" participates in the critical examination of literature and language carries out in recent years by feminist literary theory.\" For Verdyun, language in this novel is \"a source and vehicle of contradiction.\" For example, Christie's misuse of language aims to expose \"social inauthenticity and counterfeit language\" and Morag is both \"attracted to and at the same time would like to reject his particular diction.\"\n\nIn a Kirkus review from 1974, \"The Diviners\" is described as one of Laurence's \"least effective novels,\" and \"generally too crowded and warmed over.\" Other sources, focusing on the inclusion of Canadian \"socio-cultural engagements\" state that the novel is \"widely considered to be Laurence's masterpiece, and one of the greatest Canadian novels ever written.\" \n\nThe book is noted in a 1994 Globe and Mail article as \"[c]ritically acclaimed but sexually explicit\" alongside complaints from parents seeking to have the book banned from high schools in the Peterborough County Board of Education. Repeated mentions of the \"salty language\" and questionable content have followed the novel since its publication in 1974 through to the current time period. Yet, it is also praised for its acknowledgement of important social issue, including the after effects of colonialism, single motherhood, interracial relations, and the relationship between parent and child.\n\nMore recent discussion of the novel liken its relevance in the 2000s to aging rather than being considered a dated work of literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947998", "title": "Mount Matthews", "text": "Mount Matthews\n\nMount Matthews is the highest peak in the Remutaka Range to the east of Wellington, New Zealand. Mt Matthews reaches a height of 940 metres and although not special on that account, it has significance in regard to its distinctive aspect as seen from the capital; it is the highest peak that can be seen on the sky line east of the city. The mountain reaches just above the bushline and can be climbed as a day hike without mountaineering equipment but is nevertheless a strenuous and steep climb and a full day should be allowed by the time access to the feet of the ranges is included. Access is gained either from the Wairarapa (eastern) side of the Remutaka Range from the Orongorongo River on the Wellington side of the range. New Zealand archaeologist George Leslie Adkin was a notable climber of Mount Matthews. The species \"Rhypodes chinai\" is also native to Mount Matthews.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948002", "title": "Plasma acceleration", "text": "Plasma acceleration\n\nPlasma acceleration is a technique for accelerating charged particles, such as electrons, positrons, and ions, using the electric field associated with electron plasma wave or other high-gradient plasma structures (like shock and sheath fields). The plasma acceleration structures are created either using ultra-short laser pulses or energetic particle beams that are matched to the plasma parameters. These techniques offer a way to build high performance particle accelerators of much smaller size than conventional devices. The basic concepts of plasma acceleration and its possibilities were originally conceived by Toshiki Tajima and Prof. John M. Dawson of UCLA in 1979. The initial experimental designs for a \"wakefield\" accelerator were conceived at UCLA by Prof. Chan Joshi et al. Current experimental devices show accelerating gradients several orders of magnitude better than current particle accelerators over very short distances, and about one order of magnitude better (1 GeV/m vs 0.1 GeV/m for an RF accelerator) at the one meter scale.\n\nPlasma accelerators have immense promise for innovation of affordable and compact accelerators for various applications ranging from high energy physics to medical and industrial applications. Medical applications include betatron and free-electron light sources for diagnostics or radiation therapy and protons sources for hadron therapy. Plasma accelerators generally use wakefields generated by plasma density waves. However, plasma accelerators can operate in many different regimes depending upon the characteristics of the plasmas used.\n\nFor example, an experimental laser plasma accelerator at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory accelerates electrons to 1 GeV over about 3.3 cm (5.4x10 g), and one conventional accelerator (highest electron energy accelerator) at SLAC requires 64 m to reach the same energy. Similarly, using plasmas an energy gain of more than 40 GeV was achieved using the SLAC SLC beam (42 GeV) in just 85 cm using a plasma wakefield accelerator (8.9x10 g). Once fully developed, the technology could replace many of the traditional RF accelerators currently found in particle colliders, hospitals, and research facilities.\n\nThe Texas Petawatt laser facility at the University of Texas at Austin accelerated electrons to 2 GeV over about 2 cm (1.6x10 g). This record was broken (by more than 2x) in 2014 by the scientists at the BELLA (laser) Center at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, when they produced electron beams up to 4.25 GeV.\n\nIn late 2014, researchers from SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory using the Facility for Advanced Accelerator Experimental Tests (FACET) published proof of the viability of plasma acceleration technology. It was shown to be able to achieve 400 to 500 times higher energy transfer compared to a general linear accelerator design.\nA proof-of-principle plasma wakefield accelerator experiment using a 400 GeV proton beam from the Super Proton Synchrotron is currently operating at CERN. The experiment, named AWAKE, started experiments at the end of 2016.\n\nA plasma consists of a fluid of positive and negative charged particles, generally created by heating or photo-ionizing (direct / tunneling / multi-photon / barrier-suppression) a dilute gas. Under normal conditions the plasma will be macroscopically neutral (or quasi-neutral), an equal mix of electrons and ions in equilibrium. However, if a strong enough external electric or electromagnetic field is applied, the plasma electrons, which are very light in comparison to the background ions (by a factor of 1836), will separate spatially from the massive ions creating a charge imbalance in the perturbed region. A particle injected into such a plasma would be accelerated by the charge separation field, but since the magnitude of this separation is generally similar to that of the external field, apparently nothing is gained in comparison to a conventional system that simply applies the field directly to the particle. But, the plasma medium acts as the most efficient transformer (currently known) of the transverse field of an electromagnetic wave into longitudinal fields of a plasma wave. In existing accelerator technology various appropriately designed materials are used to convert from transverse propagating extremely intense fields into longitudinal fields that the particles can get a kick from. This process is achieved using two approaches: standing-wave structures (such as resonant cavities) or traveling-wave structures such as disc-loaded waveguides etc. But, the limitation of materials interacting with higher and higher fields is that they eventually get destroyed through ionization and breakdown. Here the plasma accelerator science provides the breakthrough to generate, sustain, and exploit the highest fields ever produced by science in the laboratory.\n\nWhat makes the system useful is the possibility of introducing waves of very high charge separation that propagate through the plasma similar to the traveling-wave concept in the conventional accelerator. The accelerator thereby phase-locks a particle bunch on a wave and this loaded space-charge wave accelerates them to higher velocities while retaining the bunch properties. Currently, plasma wakes are excited by appropriately shaped laser pulses or electron bunches. Plasma electrons are driven out and away from the center of wake by the ponderomotive force or the electrostatic fields from the exciting fields (electron or laser). Plasma ions are too massive to move significantly and are assumed to be stationary at the time-scales of plasma electron response to the exciting fields. As the exciting fields pass through the plasma, the plasma electrons experience a massive attractive force back to the center of the wake by the positive plasma ions chamber, bubble or column that have remained positioned there, as they were originally in the unexcited plasma. This forms a full wake of an extremely high longitudinal (accelerating) and transverse (focusing) electric field. The positive charge from ions in the charge-separation region then creates a huge gradient between the back of the wake, where there are many electrons, and the middle of the wake, where there are mostly ions. Any electrons in between these two areas will be accelerated (in self-injection mechanism). In the external bunch injection schemes the electrons are strategically injected to arrive at the evacuated region during maximum excursion or expulsion of the plasma electrons.\n\nA beam-driven wake can be created by sending a relativistic proton or electron bunch into an appropriate plasma or gas. In some cases, the gas can be ionized by the electron bunch, so that the electron bunch both creates the plasma and the wake. This requires an electron bunch with relatively high charge and thus strong fields. The high fields of the electron bunch then push the plasma electrons out from the center, creating the wake.\n\nSimilar to a beam-driven wake, a laser pulse can be used to excite the plasma wake. As the pulse travels through the plasma, the electric field of the light separates the electrons and nucleons in the same way that an external field would.\n\nIf the fields are strong enough, all of the ionized plasma electrons can be removed from the center of the wake: this is known as the \"blowout regime\". Although the particles are not moving very quickly during this period, macroscopically it appears that a \"bubble\" of charge is moving through the plasma at close to the speed of light. The bubble is the region cleared of electrons that is thus positively charged, followed by the region where the electrons fall back into the center and is thus negatively charged. This leads to a small area of very strong potential gradient following the laser pulse.\n\nIn the linear regime, plasma electrons aren't completely removed from the center of the wake. In this case, the linear plasma wave equation can be applied. However, the wake appears very similar to the blowout regime, and the physics of acceleration is the same.\n\nIt is this \"wakefield\" that is used for particle acceleration. A particle injected into the plasma near the high-density area will experience an acceleration toward (or away) from it, an acceleration that continues as the wakefield travels through the column, until the particle eventually reaches the speed of the wakefield. Even higher energies can be reached by injecting the particle to travel across the face of the wakefield, much like a surfer can travel at speeds much higher than the wave they surf on by traveling across it. Accelerators designed to take advantage of this technique have been referred to colloquially as \"surfatrons\".\n\nThe advantage of plasma acceleration is that its acceleration field can be much stronger than that of conventional radio-frequency (RF) accelerators. In RF accelerators, the field has an upper limit determined by the threshold for dielectric breakdown of the acceleration tube. This limits the amount of acceleration over any given area, requiring very long accelerators to reach high energies. In contrast, the maximum field in a plasma is defined by mechanical qualities and turbulence, but is generally several orders of magnitude stronger than with RF accelerators. It is hoped that a compact particle accelerator can be created based on plasma acceleration techniques or accelerators for much higher energy can be built, if long accelerators are realizable with an accelerating field of 10 GV/m.\n\nPlasma acceleration is categorized into several types according to how the electron plasma wave is formed:\n\nThe first experimental demonstration of wakefield acceleration, which was performed with PWFA, was reported by a research group at Argonne National Laboratory in 1988.\n\nThe acceleration gradient for a linear plasma wave is:\n\nIn this equation, formula_2 is the electric field, formula_3 is the speed of light in vacuum, formula_4 is the mass of the electron, formula_5 is the plasma electron density (in particles per metre cubed), and formula_6 is the permittivity of free space.\n\nCurrently, plasma-based particle accelerators are in the proof of concept phase at the following institutions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948003", "title": "Columbia High School", "text": "Columbia High School\n\nColumbia High School may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948013", "title": "Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified School District", "text": "Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified School District\n\nThe Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified School District (PYLUSD) is a public school district that serves Placentia, Yorba Linda, and parts of Anaheim, Brea, and Fullerton located in Orange County, California. The school district covers and employs 2,500 people. Its student enrollment is approximately 26,000, with 22 elementary, 6 middle, 5 high schools and 2 home schools. The Superintendent is Dr. Greg Plutko, Ed.D., and the Board of Education includes Carrie Buck, Judi Carmona, Carol Downey, Karin Freeman, and Eric Padget.\n\nThe mission of the Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified School District, as defined by its strategic plan titled \"The Advantage,\" is: \"We hold high expectations for all students through rigorous and relevant educational experiences that challenge them to become responsible, ethical, and engaged citizens.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948014", "title": "4-14-4", "text": "4-14-4\n\n4-14-4, in the Whyte notation classification of steam locomotives by wheel arrangement, is a locomotive with four leading wheels, fourteen coupled driving wheels (seven axles) in a rigid frame, and four trailing wheels.\n\nOther equivalent classifications are:\nUIC classification: 2G2 (also known as German classification and Italian classification)\nFrench classification: 272\nTurkish classification: 711\nSwiss classification: 7/11\nRussian classification: 2-7-2\n\nThe sole example of this type, called the AA20-1, was built by the Soviet Union. The designation stands for Andrey Andreev (who sponsored its construction), 20 ton axle load. While some builders had produced twelve-coupled (six driving axles) designs, no one had ever built a fourteen-coupled engine. The AA20-1 holds two records: the largest number of coupled axles on a locomotive, and being the longest rigid frame locomotive in Europe. It was the largest rigid frame locomotive in the world until 1939, when the PRR S1 was unveiled.\n\nThe large number of driving axles were meant to spread out the locomotive's weight, reducing the axle load and the resulting stress on the track. A group of Soviet locomotive engineers had visited the United States, and presumably they had seen the 4-12-2 locomotives being used by the Union Pacific. The 4-14-4 could be viewed as an expansion of that type. Unlike the successful Union Pacific locomotives, however, the AA20-1 was a complete failure.\n\nThe AA20-1 was originally intended to be a 2-14-4 (1'G2'). Construction was undertaken in Essen, Germany by Krupp, following a Soviet design. Later, the unfinished locomotive was moved to Lugansk, where a two-axle leading truck was fitted. The trailing trucks supported a huge firebox. The AA20-1 was intended to run on low-quality coal, so a lot of space was needed to burn it in order to provide enough heat to the boiler.\n\nThe seven driving axles were laid out apart, giving a very long rigid wheelbase of . This required adaptations to negotiate curves. The center three driving axles were blind, and the first and seventh driving axles were fitted with lateral motion devices. These measures were not enough to make the AA20-1 work properly, however. It was prone to frequent derailments, and its large number of wheels made the engine too heavy for the track. As a result of its long wheelbase, the AA20-1 also spread the track and wrecked the points of the switches as it passed over. It was too big to fit on the turntables, too powerful for the couplers in use at the time and unable to run at full power for very long due to its undersized boiler.\n\nThe AA20-1 made a publicity trip to Moscow in 1935. It was then put into storage at the Shcherbinka test facility and finally scrapped in 1960, though this was not stated publicly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948017", "title": "Surrendered Enemy Personnel", "text": "Surrendered Enemy Personnel\n\nSurrendered Enemy Personnel (SEP) is a designation for captive enemy soldiers (similar to Disarmed Enemy Forces). It was most commonly used by British forces towards German forces in Europe, and towards Japanese and associated forces in Asia after the end of World War II.\n\nOn March 1, 1947 the U.S. stated that the SEPs should be regarded as POW's and be treated in accordance with the Geneva conventions.\n\nThe designation of SEP allowed the Royal Navy to use the German command structure to facilitate the disbandment of the Kriegsmarine.\n\nIn the Malay Emergency the UK also used the definition SEP, alongside Captured Enemy Personnel (CEP). The distinction made was that SEP were insurgents who surrendered to the British, while Captured Enemy Personnel were not. Both designations were treated as Prisoners of War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948065", "title": "Maurice Edelman", "text": "Maurice Edelman\n\nIsrael Maurice Edelman (2 March 1911 – 14 December 1975) was a Wales-born British Labour Party politician and novelist who represented Coventry constituencies in the House of Commons for over 30 years.\n\nMaurice Edelman was born in Cardiff in 1911. His parents came to Wales in 1905, escaping the pogroms in Tsarist Russia and Poland. His father was a photographer. He was educated at Cardiff High School and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he was an Exhibitioner in Modern Languages (French, German and later Russian). He joined the plywood industry in 1931 as a company director and at the outbreak of the Second World War was engaged in research into the application of plywood and plastic materials to aircraft construction.\n\nEdelman was a prolific journalist and author of several works of fiction and non-fiction. His novels include \"A Trial of Love\" (1951), \"Who Goes Home?\" (1953), \"A Dream of Treason\" (1954), \"The Happy Ones\" (1957), \"A Call on Kuprim\" (1959), \"The Minister\" (1961), \"The Fratricides\" (1963), \"The Prime Minister's Daughter\" (1964), \"All on a Summer's Night\" (1969), \"Disraeli In Love\" (1972) and \"Disraeli Rising\" (1975).\n\nHis non-fiction works include \"France: The Birth of the Fourth Republic\", and a biography of David Ben Gurion. He also produced screenplays for television broadcasts during the 1960s and 1970s. During the Second World War he worked for \"Picture Post\" as a war correspondent in North Africa and Italy.\n\nAt the 1945 election Edelman was elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Coventry West. In 1950 he won the new seat of Coventry North.\n\nHe was a vice-chairman of the British Council and chairman of the Franco-British Parliamentary Relations Committee. He was a founder member of the Council of Europe in 1949. A lifelong Francophile, Edelman was appointed Officier de la Légion d'Honneur in 1960, having previously been awarded Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur in 1954.\n\nFollowing further boundary changes in 1974, Edelman represented Coventry North West until his death. His successor was Geoffrey Robinson, who won a by-election on 4 March 1976.\n\nHe appeared on the live television panel show \"What's My Line?\" from New York on 29 April 1962.\n\nHe was also president of the Anglo-Jewish Association, and an active member of the Friends of the Hebrew University.\n\nHe died on 14 December 1975 at the age of 64.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948082", "title": "Trees for Life (Scotland)", "text": "Trees for Life (Scotland)\n\nTrees for Life is a registered charity working to Rewild the Scottish Highlands. \n\nThe Caledonian Forest once covered a large area of the Highlands of Scotland as extensive stands of majestic Scots pine, interspersed with birch, rowan, juniper and aspen trees, but is now reduced to about 2% of its former extent. Through planting native species of trees, removing non-native species and fencing seedlings to protect them from overgrazing by deer and sheep, Trees for Life aim to help the natural regeneration of the forest. Their long-term goal is to create a fully restored, healthy ecosystem, which will include the reintroduction of missing species of wildlife, such as the European beaver, wild boar, Eurasian lynx and Eurasian wolf.\n\nThe vast majority of their work is carried out by volunteers. By engaging people from diverse backgrounds, they aim to achieve a powerful and educational experience that will promote the work of restoration to wider audiences and lead to increased support for the return of the forest and its species.\n\nTrees for Life was founded by Alan Watson Featherstone.\nPractical work on the project began in 1989 and since then they have planted nearly 2 million native trees and have protected numerous areas with fenced exclosures.\n\nInitial work took place in Glen Cannich, but the majority of their activities to date have been in Glen Affric, where they operate in partnership with both Forestry and Land Scotland and the National Trust for Scotland. Later, work expanded into other nearby glens, such as Glenmoriston, to the south of Glen Affric, at Achnashellach, and at Corrimony, where they worked in partnership with the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.\n\nMuch of Trees for Life's practical work is carried out by volunteers, through their programme of volunteer Conservation Weeks, providing opportunities for people to get involved and support their efforts. Held throughout spring and autumn, each week consists of 10 volunteers, and is run by two leaders, who may be Trees for Life staff members or volunteers who have been trained to lead weeks themselves. Work carried out includes native tree planting, non-native species removal, seed collection, fencing and working in their Tree Nursery.\n\nConservation Weeks are held at varying locations across the Scottish Highlands, depending on work required.\n\nIn August 2008 Trees for Life successfully purchased the 4,000 hectare Dundreggan Estate in Glenmoriston, in the Scottish Highlands – one of the largest areas of land in the UK to be bought for forest restoration. The £1.65 million deal is the charity's most significant and important project to date, and follows more than two years of negotiations.\n\nDundreggan, lying on the north side of Glenmoriston to the west of Loch Ness, is home to declining species such as black grouse and wood ants. It contains areas of ancient woodland, including one of Scotland's best areas of juniper as well as significant areas of dwarf birch; however, much of the estate is open treeless ground. It was previously managed as a traditional sporting estate for many years, and heavy grazing by sheep and deer has prevented the healthy growth of woodland and other natural habitats. Trees for Life's purchase of the estate will allow them to plant 500,000 native trees and re-connect the forest between Glen Moriston and Glen Affric.\n\nBy 2058, Trees for Life's long-term plan will see Dundreggan restored to a wild landscape of diverse natural forest cover, with the return of species including red squirrel, capercaillie, golden eagle and European beaver. Scientific research and education programmes will be established and most human infrastructure removed. Dundreggan Lodge and a neighbouring cottage will be renovated to a high ecological standard, providing a base for volunteers and educational displays for students, researchers and school children. After a feasibility study in Glen Affric six wild boar, donated by the Highland Wildlife Park, were re-introduced to a large fenced area of the estate in November 2009.\n\nTrees for Life's Woodland Ground Flora Project seeks to enhance populations of plants which have become scarce in established woodland, species such as one-flowered wintergreen (\"Moneses uniflora\"), and twinflower (\"Linnaea borealis\"), and to establish populations of these plants, and more common species such as primrose (\"Primula vulgaris\") and bluebell (\"Hyacinthoides non-scripta\"), in new woodland where these species are absent.\n\nThe project involves surveys of established and new woodland sites, creating trial plots for species reintroduction, propagation of plants, researching suitable species and their growing conditions and liaising with other organisations involved in similar work.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948085", "title": "Dan Patrick (politician)", "text": "Dan Patrick (politician)\n\nDan Goeb Patrick (born Dannie Scott Goeb; April 4, 1950) is an American radio talk show host, television broadcaster, and politician. He has served as the 42nd lieutenant governor of Texas since January 2015, under Greg Abbott.\n\nOriginally from Baltimore, Maryland, Patrick began his career as a radio and television broadcaster. After forming a chain of sports bars and subsequently going bankrupt, he became a radio host again, this time becoming a conservative commentator. From 2007 to 2015, Patrick was a Republican member of the Texas Senate for the 7th District, which included a small portion of the city of Houston and several Houston-area suburbs located mostly in northwest Harris County.\n\nPatrick defeated three-term incumbent David Dewhurst in the primary runoff for lieutenant governor on May 27, 2014. He then won the position in the fall general election. He was re-elected in 2018, defeating Democratic nominee Mike Collier.\n\nPatrick was born \"Dannie Scott Goeb\" in Baltimore, Maryland, on April 4, 1950. He was raised in a blue-collar neighborhood in East Baltimore. He is the only child of the former Vilma Jean Marshall (1926–2016) and Charles Anthony Goeb (1926–2002), who worked at the \"Baltimore Sun\" for thirty-one years as a newspaper vendor, before he retired in 1984.\n\nPatrick graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. He is the first member of his family to graduate from college. After graduating and embarking on a broadcasting career, he changed his name from \"Dannie Scott Goeb\" to \"Dan Goeb Patrick\" – informally in 1977 and legally in 2004 – to honor his wife's family and brother-in-law.\n\nPatrick started his first radio job in 1968 at the age of 18. After college, in 1977, he became a television broadcaster at WNEP-TV in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Patrick later held a similar position at WTTG in Washington, D.C., before he became the lead sportscaster with KHOU-TV in Houston.\n\nAs a broadcaster, Patrick was able to get attention through various stunts, such as painting himself blue in support for the Houston Oilers and wearing a large cowboy hat. He became the second most popular TV personality in Houston by 1983, as well as one of the most well-known, though surveys also found that he was one of the most disliked. Patrick also had excellent public speaking skills, which caused him to be nicknamed \"the Silver-tongued Devil.\" Patrick left his job at KHOU in the mid-1980s after failing to reach an agreement with the station's new ownership for a long-term contract.\n\nIn November 1983, Patrick and several investors opened one of the first sports bars in the U.S., which they named Dan and Nick's Sportsmarket. The bar did well for a time, due to \"the strength of Patrick’s personality\" and an oil boom in Houston at the time, and they eventually took ownership of five sports bars in the city. Patrick's mother was the company bookkeeper. Questions later arose during the 2014 lieutenant governor's race about the immigration status of one of Patrick's employees, Miguel \"Mike\" Andrade. Patrick and Andrade offered different recollections about Andrade's employment. The matter was raised by one of Patrick's opponents, Jerry Patterson, who questioned Patrick's declared commitment to halt illegal immigration.\n\nWhen the oil boom ended, Houston's economy fell, something which fatally hurt Patrick's sports bar chain. In 1986, after the sports bars failed, Patrick filed for personal bankruptcy. In October 1992, the case was closed, discharging several hundred thousand dollars in remaining debts. Patrick, who stated it took him 10 years for him and his family \"to regain financial equilibrium,\" has frequently and openly discussed the ordeal and stated how it shaped him as an individual and conservative.\n\nAfter his bankruptcy, Patrick \"reinvented himself.\" He became a conservative talk radio host in the 1990s. He began by buying a four-hour timeslot at AM 700 KSEV (then called KTBT) in the summer of 1987. He originally was a sports radio host, operating out of his remaining sports bar. However, he was able to take over the radio station in 1988, and he switched to politics shortly afterward. He hosted a conservative radio talk show. The program, \"Dan Patrick & Friends\", was broadcast in the Houston radio market on KSEV and in Dallas on AM 1160 KVCE. He used the pseudonym \"Dan Scott\" as a radio host, and he adopted his current name at the request of the person who hired him in order to avoid confusing Patrick with another anchor at a competitor station with the last name of Scott.\n\nPatrick grew successful and influential through his talk radio career. He earned high name recognition. As a talk radio host, Patrick advocated for fiscal conservatism, evangelical Christian values on social issues, and he became a vocal opponent of illegal immigration. He was also known as a populist. Patrick's talk radio career was instrumental to his political rise, including his election and influence in the State Senate and his eventual election as lieutenant governor. One notable decision Patrick made as the owner of a talk radio station was to sign Rush Limbaugh, who was not well known at the time, to be heard on KSEV in 1989, via radio syndication. Limbaugh's success as a national talk show host helped raise the popularity of Patrick's radio station.\n\nBy February 2006, Patrick already owned one radio station. In 2006, Patrick signed a deal to purchase radio station KMGS AM 1160 in Highland Park, Texas (now KBDT). By 2013, Patrick was the majority owner of two radio stations, in Houston and Dallas radio markets. Patrick continued broadcasting after his election as a State Senator, and he continued to own KSEV after his election as lieutenant governor.\n\nIn November 2008, Patrick began work to produce \"The Heart of Texas\", a movie based on a real-life story of two families in Simonton, a small Houston-area city. The movie was released the next year on DVD.\n\nPatrick proposed a boycott of Bill Maher's television show \"Politically Incorrect\" over controversial statements made by the comedian following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Patrick is also frequently at odds with the \"Houston Chronicle\" and announced a boycott of that newspaper in April 2004. He owned a blog called \"Chronically Biased\", which criticized the newspaper.\n\nPatrick first considered running for the United States House of Representatives in 2004.\n\nPatrick was first elected to Texas State Senate's seventh district in 2006, winning the primary election with 68.8% of the vote and the general election with 69.2% of the vote. His term began on January 9, 2007 with the convening of the Eightieth Texas Legislature.\n\nDuring his first month as a legislator, Patrick introduced Senate Bill 186. If passed, it would have made abortion in Texas illegal should the Supreme Court overturn \"Roe v. Wade\". The bill was co-sponsored by fellow Texas state senators Craig Estes and Glenn Hegar.\n\nPatrick obtained passage of three Senate bills during his first session. The other four freshmen Senators—Glenn Hegar (32 Senate bills passed), Kirk Watson (15 Senate bills passed), Robert Nichols (14 Senate bills passed), and Carlos Uresti (12 bills passed) – had previous government experience in other capacities.\n\nIn the 2010 general election, Patrick was reelected with 86.4% of the vote. He also endorsed Rick Perry for re-election in the 2010 election. Soon after winning re-election, Patrick announced, and subsequently created, a Tea Party Caucus in the Texas state legislature, which at its creation had 48 legislative members.\n\nW. Gardner Selby, editor of the \"Austin American-Statesman\"'s \"PolitiFact Texas\", listed Patrick as third among the top 10 Republican political influencers in Texas. Patrick is also listed in \"Texas Monthly\" as one of the state's most powerful players.\n\nIn May 2012, acrimony between Patrick and fellow Republican state senator John Carona was widely reported throughout Texas. In an email exchange, Patrick accused Carona of spreading false rumors about Patrick's marriage. Carona denied that, and additionally denied having commented on Patrick's sexuality. Carona further said to Patrick: \"I've never been shy about sharing my dislike and distrust of you. Put bluntly, I believe you are a snake oil salesman, a narcissist that would say anything to draw attention to himself.\" News reports suggest that the feud was motivated by positioning to succeed David Dewhurst as lieutenant governor should Dewhurst have won a seat as U.S. senator, in 2012.\n\n\nOn June 26, 2013, Patrick announced he would challenge incumbent David Dewhurst in the Republican primary for lieutenant governor in 2014. This challenge came despite Patrick's enthusiastic endorsement of Dewhurst in his failed 2012 bid for the U.S. Senate. Patrick stated that while he had been planning on retiring from politics after his Senate term ended, he decided to run for lieutenant governor after Dewhurst failed to end fellow State Senator Wendy Davis's filibuster of Texas Senate Bill 5 and after Senator Jane Nelson refused to run herself.\n\nIn his race for lieutenant governor, Patrick was endorsed in July 2013 by Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas who ran unsuccessfully for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination. In 2012, Huckabee had also endorsed David Dewhurst for the U.S. Senate nomination for the seat vacated by Kay Bailey Hutchison. Victory went, however, to the Republican Ted Cruz.\n\nAt a candidate forum in College Station in January 2014, Patrick said that he and two other challengers to Dewhurst, Jerry E. Patterson and Todd Staples, could have sought re-election in their current positions as Land Commissioner and Texas Commissioner of Agriculture, respectively, but were instead \"putting our positions on the line because we need new leadership. ... An energetic, passionate conservative to lead the Senate.\"\n\nAt the candidate forum, Patrick described education as a key issue in his campaign because of the 25 percent statewide high school drop-out rate, rising to 40 to 50 percent in the inner cities. He stated that \"we do not have a future in the state of Texas if we have half of the next adult population – majority being Hispanic – don't have a high school degree.\" Patrick said that as lieutenant governor, he would work to secure the border with Mexico and to abolish sanctuary cities and in-state tuition for illegal immigrants. He also called for lowering property taxes.\n\nPatrick led the four-candidate field in the primary with 550,769 votes (41.5%). Dewhurst followed with 376,196 (28.3%); Staples, with 235,981 (17.8%), and Patterson, 165,787 (12.5%). Election watchers did not expect Patrick to get first place. In the runoff election on May 27, Patrick won with 487,829 votes (65.1%), defeating Dewhurst, who had 262,086 votes (34.9%). Patrick's victory was one of several notable primary victories by Tea Party movement-aligned Republicans in the election runoff.\n\nAccording to Ross Ramsey of \"The Texas Tribune\", Patrick did not shift to the political middle as the general election approached, contrary to what political candidates typically do. On November 4, 2014, Patrick won the general election against his state Senate colleague, Democrat Leticia Van de Putte of San Antonio, to become the lieutenant governor-elect of Texas. He was swept into office in a Republican landslide that saw the party retain all statewide elected offices for the fifth consecutive election.\n\nOn January 9, 2017, the day before the 85th Texas Legislature began its session, Patrick announced he would run for re-election in 2018. He stated his early announcement was in order to dispel rumors that he would challenge Governor Greg Abbott or U.S. Senator Ted Cruz. Patrick easily won the Republican primary on March 6, 2018, defeating Rockwall City Council Member Scott Milder.\n\nIn addition to his own campaign, Patrick was active in endorsing and assisting Republican primary candidates in the Texas Senate, including some challengers to GOP incumbents. Patrick's favored candidates won nearly all the races where Patrick made intraparty endorsements. Later in the year, Patrick donated nearly $175,000 to Texas Senate candidate Pete Flores in a special election; Flores won the election in an upset, increasing Patrick's chances of keeping a three-fifths GOP majority in the Senate after the 2018 elections. Patrick succeeded in maintaining a three-fifths majority in the Senate, though Republican Senator Kel Seliger was considered a possible swing-vote.\n\nIn the November 6 general election, Patrick won re-election to a second term, defeating Democratic nominee Mike Collier. He won about 51% of the vote against Collier's 47%.\n\nPatrick was sworn in on January 20, 2015. Soon after assuming office, the Texas Senate voted to drop the threshold needed to consider a bill from two-thirds to three-fifths, something that Patrick had long supported. Under Patrick, the Senate enforced procedural rules that had long been ignored.\n\nMajor legislation that Patrick helped pass during his tenure as lieutenant governor include legalization of campus carry and open carry, a bill allowing pastors to refuse marrying couples if it violates their beliefs, and expanded border security and enforcement measures.\n\nPatrick made legislation prohibiting state or local governments from issuing subpoenas on pastors' sermons a priority in the 2017 session. Governor Abbott signed the bill into law on May 21, 2017.\n\nPatrick opposes abortion and supported Texas' \"Mandatory Ultrasound Bill\", a bill signed into law in May 2011 by Governor Perry, which requires women seeking abortion to have a sonogram of the fetus taken at least twenty-four hours before the abortion is performed.\n\nPatrick opposes abortion in cases of incest and rape. In January 2014, when he was asked about exceptions to outlawing abortion, Patrick said, \"The only exception would be if the life of the mother was truly in danger…but that is rare.\"\n\nPatrick supports increasing the number of charter schools in the state.\n\nIn February 2011, Patrick, who at the time was vice chairman of the Texas senate's Committee on Education, spoke in favor of cutting an unspecified number of non-teaching positions from the state's public school districts, citing positions such as \"math department supervisors\" or \"curriculum experts\". At the time, Patrick cited a statistic later determined to be misleading by PolitiFact.com that Texas's 1,200+ public school districts, considered as a group, are the fifth-largest employer in the world.\n\nPatrick is on record as determined to establish creationism within the public school curriculum in Texas, despite court rulings that such a policy would violate the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nIn 2019, Patrick pushed to increase Texas teachers' paychecks by $5,000.\n\nIn 2019, Patrick called for requiring background checks for gun sales between two strangers.\n\nPatrick opposes illegal immigration. As a talk radio host, he reserved some of his \"most hard-edged oratory for illegal immigrants.\" Patrick expressed support for Arizona's SB 1070 immigration enforcement law, and supports passing a similar law in Texas that would allow local law enforcement to ask lawfully-stopped individuals about their immigration status and would make it a state misdemeanor to be present in Texas as an illegal immigrant.\n\nAs Lieutenant Governor, Patrick moved to keep National Guard troops sent to the Texas-Mexico border during the illegal immigration surge of 2014 indefinitely, rather than until March 2015, as originally planned. Patrick's 2015 budget in the Texas Senate called for spending $815 million on border security, which he said was more than the previous seven years combined. Governor Greg Abbott signed the measure—for about $800 million—into law. In a June 2018 interview on Fox Business Network, Patrick estimated that 30 million illegal immigrants lived in the U.S.\n\nOn February 26, 2014, following a federal court ruling the Texas ban on same-sex marriage unconstitutional, Patrick asserted his position that marriage is a union between one man and one woman. He then further stated his intentions to fight such decisions should he be elected to the Lt. Governor's office.\n\nPatrick strongly opposed HERO, an unsuccessful Houston ordinance intended to establish legal protections for gay and transgender residents along with some other classes, as he claimed that the ordinance would lead to sexual predators being freely able to enter women's restrooms. Patrick has stated that if necessary, he would support legislation to require people to use the bathroom that corresponds to the gender listed on their birth certificates.\n\nHours after the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting, Patrick tweeted a picture of the Bible verse, \"Do not be deceived: God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. Galatians 6:7.\" An adviser released a statement that the tweet had been pre-scheduled, and the tweet was later deleted. Patrick issued a statement on the incident, again stating that the tweet was pre-planned and that \"I didn’t pull down the FB post & tweet because God’s word is wrong. His word is never wrong ... I took it down to stop the hateful comments and the misinformation being spread of God’s message to all of us- straight or gay.\"\n\nIn May 2016, Patrick criticized the Obama administration after it released a directive stating that all public schools must allow transgender students to use the bathroom and locker facilities that correspond with their identified gender, stating that, on the prospect of the federal government withholding funding for Texas schools for not following the directive, \"he can keep his 30 pieces of silver [and that w]e will not yield to blackmail from the president of the United States.\" In 2017, Patrick strongly advocated for a bathroom bill that would prohibit transgender students at public schools from using any restroom other than that of their biological sex. Patrick described the legislation as a \"legislative priority.\" Patrick encouraged state Senator Lois Kolkhorst of Brenham to introduce a bathroom bill similar to a previous law adopted in 2016 in North Carolina, and strongly pushed for it at its proposal on January 5, 2017. Texas House Speaker Joe Straus of San Antonio, a moderate Republican, said that the measure is not an important matter for lower chamber.\n\nIn April 2019, Patrick called Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke \"light in the loafers\", a slur often used to insinuate someone as gay, though O'Rourke is heterosexual. Patrick also called O'Rourke a \"moron.\" Patrick later stated that while he stood by his comments, the insinuation was unintentional.\n\nPatrick has advocated against bills that would reduce criminal penalties for marijuana possession. He has expressed skepticism of medical marijuana legalization.\n\nIn November 2012, Patrick asked Texas attorney general Greg Abbott's office to issue an opinion on the constitutionality of government entities providing domestic partner insurance benefits. An amendment to the Texas Constitution in 2005 limits marriage to heterosexual relationships and prohibits similar, alternative legal arrangements. Patrick did not disclose his own views on same-sex marriage or civil unions for same-sex couples. He told the \"Houston Chronicle\" that his request was prompted by Dallas County's November 2012 decision and an Austin-area public school district's October 2012 decision to join other Texas cities and counties in extending benefits to their unmarried employees' heterosexual or homosexual partners.\n\nPatrick was interviewed extensively on ABC's \"20/20\" segment \"The Age of Consent: When Young Love Is a Sex Crime,\" defending his position favoring very tough Texas statutory rape laws. \"While it seems unfair, he was 19, she was 15,\" says Patrick, \"That's the price you pay. Even if you end up getting married.\"\n\nPatrick is a strong supporter of maintaining Confederate monuments on public display, despite opposition from civil rights groups who consider the statues as a defense of the institution of slavery. As one of six members of the board that oversees the Texas State Capitol grounds, Patrick described the need: \"to learn from history all of our history, including events and times that many would like to forget. ... Our goal should be to have a meaningful dialogue for future generations so those moments in our history are not repeated.\"\n\nIn an interview with Fox News host Tucker Carlson on March 23, 2020, Patrick stated that he was willing to risk his life from the coronavirus pandemic if it would avoid an economic shutdown, which he stated would negatively impact subsequent generations. Patrick also stated that he thought many grandparents agreed with him on this. Patrick later moderated his rhetoric while continuing to show skepticism of shutting down the economy.\n\nPatrick worked to increase access to hydroxychloroquine, an unproven drug to treat the coronavirus. On April 7, 2020, Patrick announced the creation of a task force to make recommendations on how to re-open Texas's economy.\n\nPatrick again garnered controversy on April 21, when he defended his previous comments on the pandemic by saying \"And what I said when I was with you that night, there are more important things than living. And that’s saving this country for my children, and my grandchildren and saving this country for all of us. And I don’t want to die, nobody wants to die, but man, we got to take some risks and get back in the game, and get this country back up and running.\"\n\nIn May 2020, Patrick paid a $7,000 fine imposed on a Dallas businesswoman for opening her business during the state's lockdown.\n\nAfter the 2019 El Paso shooting, Patrick listed factors that he believed contributed to the shooting, starting off with video games, saying, \"We've always had guns, always had evil, but I see a video game industry that teaches young people to kill.\"\n\nPatrick endorsed Texas Senator Ted Cruz for the 2016 Republican presidential primaries and served as his Texas campaign chairman. After businessman Donald Trump became the Republican nominee, Patrick endorsed Trump and eventually became the Texas state chairman for his campaign. Trump won Texas by 9 percentage points, the closest result since 1996. In January 2018, Patrick stated that he considered Presidents Trump and Ronald Reagan as the two greatest presidents in his lifetime, and the \"Austin American-Statesman\" described Patrick as an \"ardent defender\" of Trump.\n\nAt a political rally for President Trump on October 17, 2019, Patrick told a crowd of 20,000 that liberals “are not our opponents, they are our enemy.”\n\nPatrick's first marriage ended in divorce. His second wife is Janetlea \"Jan\" Patricia Rankin, a former teacher. The couple was married in 1975 and lives in the Houston suburb of Cypress. They have two children, Ryan and Shane. Ryan served as a district judge from Harris County, Texas, and swore in his father in 2015, for his term as lieutenant governor of Texas. In July 2017, Ryan Patrick was chosen to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Texas by U.S. President Donald Trump, and the United States Senate subsequently confirmed him.\n\nWhile growing up, Patrick and his family were \"not very religious.\" After moving to Houston, he and his wife attended a Catholic church, but he joined a Baptist church soon after learning about it. Though Patrick was a member of the Second Baptist Church Houston since 1992, he stated he was not truly a Christian until March 1994, when, on a television-and-radio convention in Las Vegas, he repented of his sins, committed his life to God, and was saved. After this, Patrick's faith became an important part of his life, and he considered going into Christian ministry for a time.\n\nPatrick, an evangelical Christian, is a member of various Christian organizations, including Fellowship of Christian Athletes and the International Bible Society, and has served as guest pastor of his church, the Second Baptist Church Houston. He is very outspoken about his Christian faith, and he stated in his inauguration speech upon becoming lieutenant governor that \"I respect all faiths and religions, but I am a Christian first, a conservative second and a Republican third, and I praise Jesus for this moment and this day.\" Patrick was baptized in the Jordan River during a trip to Israel in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948086", "title": "Account aggregation", "text": "Account aggregation\n\nAccount aggregation sometimes also known as financial data aggregation is a method that involves compiling information from different accounts, which may include bank accounts, credit card accounts, investment accounts, and other consumer or business accounts, into a single place. This may be provided through connecting via an API to the financial institution or provided through \"screen scraping\" where a user provides the requisite account-access information for an automated system to gather and compile the information into a single page. The security of the account access details as well as the financial information is key to users having confidence in the service.\n\nThe database either resides in a web-based application or in client-side software. While such services are primarily designed to aggregate financial information, they sometimes also display other things such as the contents of e-mail boxes and news headlines.\n\nThe ideas around account aggregation first emerged in the mid 1990s when banks started releasing Internet banking applications.\n\nIn the late 1990s services helped users to manage their money on the Internet (typical desktop alternatives include Microsoft Money, Intuit Quicken etc.) in an easy-to-use manner wherein they got functionalities like single password, one-click access to current account data, total net worth and expense analysis.\n\nOne of the first major account aggregation services was Citibank's My Accounts service, though this service ended in late 2005 without explanation from Citibank. Much has been said in the financial services and banking industry as to the benefits of account aggregation – principally the customer and web site loyalty it might generate for providers – but the lack of responsibility and commitment by the providers is one reason for skepticism about committing to those same providers.\n\nAccount aggregation evolved with single sign-on (SSO) at most major banks such as Bank of America. With SSO (usually implemented via SAML) major financial institutions are now expanding their aggregation services into new areas. Rich Presentment (getting all the information about a bill that you owe) is a service that uses aggregation extensively and can be seen at AOL, using AOL Bill Pay. Aggregation also powers applications such as funds transfer, new account opening, card-based bill pay and so on.\n\nIndependent financial advisers are another group on which account aggregators began focusing their attention. Having seen increasing competition from the wirehouses, breakaway brokers and robo-advisor, positioning themselves as their client's \"primary advisor\" was not as easy as it once was.\n\nStarting in 2015 developments such as open banking made it easier for third parties to access bank transaction data and introduced standard API and security models.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948119", "title": "Wannagan Creek site", "text": "Wannagan Creek site\n\nThe Wannagan Creek site is a fossil site found just west of the South Unit of Theodore Roosevelt National Park of North Dakota, USA. The site is Paleocene in age, approximately 60 million years old. Paleontologists of the Science Museum of Minnesota have studied the site for nearly thirty years. The site is thought to represent a paleoenviroment of subtropical swampy lowland and forests. Preservation is excellent for both the flora and fauna of the site. Trace fossils of crocodilians and other vertebrates have also been discovered.\n\nThe topography of the site is that of a badland, due to the downcutting of the Little Missouri River. The rock units are likely sediments derived from the Laramide orogeny deposited in an ecosystem dominated by rivers, streams, ponds, lakes, and swamps.\n\nThe Wannagan Site is found in the upper portion of the Tongue River Formation (formerly Bullion Creek Formation). The rocks of this deposit, reaching a thickness of over 60 m, consist of yellow to tan, poorly lithified claystones, mudstones, and siltstones with a lesser amounts of interbedded fine-grained sandstones and lignite. The site is overlain by the Sentinel Butte Formation. This formation is generally gray to brown in color but is similar in lithology to the Tongue River. The Sentinel Butte is roughly 90 m thick. The contact between the two formations is roughly 6 m above the site. The Sentinel Butte contains an extensive stump-bearing petrified wood bed above the contact at the site.\n\nMany mammals are found at Wannagan. All are small compared to modern mammals, the largest being sheep-sized. Preserved mammals include a squirrel-like primitive primate and \"Ptilodus\", an arboreal multituberculate. The largest mammal at the site is the condylarth herbivore \"Phenacodus\". An additional mammal fossil is \"Protictis\", a weasel sized member of Viverridae that may have hunted on the forest floor.\n\nReptiles are the dominant animal type preserved at Wannagan. The largest animal (~4 meters [13 ft] in length) found at the site is the eusuchian crocodilian \"Borealosuchus formidabilis\" (formerly known as \"Leidyosuchus formidabilis\"). \"B. formidabilis\" is also thought to be the apex predator of the fauna. The second largest reptile is the champsosaur \"Champsosaurus gigas\". \"C. gigas\" is unusual among Paleocene reptiles in that it is larger than its known Mesozoic ancestors: 3 meters (10 ft) in length versus 1.5 meters (4.5 ft) for the largest Cretaceous champsosaurs. Reptiles as a whole decreased in size after the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. Other reptiles include soft-shelled turtles, varanid lizards, a small alligatorid called \"Wannaganosuchus\", palaeophid snakes, and the snapping turtle-like \"Protochelydra zangerli\".\n\nBirds from Wannagan include an ibis, an unnamed water bird, and a plover-like shore bird. The two types amphibians found at Wannagan are the giant salamander \"Piceorpeton willwoodense\" and frogs. Fish include fossil \"Esox\", freshwater rays, gar, and bowfin. Additionally, the dragonfly \"Gomphaeschna schrankii\" and the mayfly \"Ephemeropteran\" have been found.\n\nThe flora of Wannagan is quite well preserved in some cases, with evidence of insect feeding found on many fossils. Most of the fossils have modern equivalents. The list of trees at Wannagan Creek include palms, ginkgo trees, bald cypress, dogwoods, oaks, elms, fig trees, magnolias, dawn redwoods, hackberries, sassafras, sycamores, cherries, mulberries, and cycads. Additional plants found at the site are grape vines, lotus, bur-reeds, cattails, and water-plantago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948131", "title": "Carolina County Ball", "text": "Carolina County Ball\n\nCarolina County Ball is the second studio album by the rock band Elf, released as an LP in 1974 on the MGM label. It was released in the United States and Japan as \"L.A.59\". The first album to feature bassist Craig Gruber.\n\nOn some of the European releases of \"Carolina County Ball\", the first song is listed as \"Carolina Country Ball\" making this album somewhat of a collector's item.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948162", "title": "William Murchison", "text": "William Murchison\n\nWilliam Murchison is a nationally syndicated political columnist in the United States. Murchison is normally of a conservative political persuasion. He is also a regular contributor to Watchdog.org, \"Chronicles\" and \"The Lone Star Report\".\n\nMurchison obtained his degree from Stanford University and the University of Texas.\n\nPrior to retiring in 2001, he worked as an editor for \"The Dallas Morning News\". Murchison has contributed to a number of national publications which include: the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"National Review\", \"The Weekly Standard\", and \"First Things\". He also frequently speaks across the country at colleges and many other forums. He also served, for five years, as a Radford Distinguished Professor of Journalism at Baylor University.\n\nHe is the author of several books including:\n\nHe is in addition a member of the Philadelphia Society.\n"}
{"id": "1948177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948177", "title": "Yale School of Management", "text": "Yale School of Management\n\nThe Yale School of Management (also known as Yale SOM) is the graduate business school of Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut. The School awards the Master of Business Administration (MBA), MBA for Executives (EMBA), Master of Advanced Management (MAM), Master's Degree in Systemic Risk, Master's Degree in Global Business & Society, Master's Degree in Asset Management, and Ph.D. degrees, as well as joint degrees with nine other graduate programs at Yale University. As of August 2019, 666 students were enrolled in its MBA program, 134 in the EMBA program, 70 in the MAM program, 32 in the Master of Global Business Studies program, 11 in the Master of Systemic Risk program, and 59 in the PhD program; 122 students were pursuing joint degrees. The School has 90 full-time faculty members, and the dean is Kerwin Kofi Charles.\n\nThe School conducts education and research in leadership, behavioral economics, operations management, marketing, entrepreneurship, organizational behavior, and other areas. The EMBA program offers focused study in healthcare, asset management, or sustainability. The School also offers semester-long student exchange programs with HEC Paris, IESE, the London School of Economics, the National University of Singapore Business School, and Tsinghua University. Students may also propose a quarter- or semester-long exchange program with any of the 25 other schools of the Global Network for Advanced Management.\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, Yale University started to expand coursework offerings in business and organization management. A precursor to the School of Management, the Department of Industrial Administration, grew out of the Labor and Management Center, and conferred the master in industrial administration from 1958 through 1973. Professors Thomas Holmes, Chris Argyris, and David Votaw were instrumental in founding the MIA. In 1971, Yale University received a donation establishing a program in management from Frederick W. Beinecke, PhB 1909. Two years later, the Yale Corporation approved the establishment of a School of Organization and Management. Arriving in 1976, the first class of the two-year program that awarded a master's degree in public and private management (MPPM) attended the campus on Hillhouse Avenue.\nHistorically known for its strength in studies regarding nonprofits and the public sector, the school's focus began to evolve and changed its name to the Yale School of Management in 1994. Shortly thereafter in 1999, the School began offering a master of business (MBA) degree and discontinued the MPPM degree.\nYale SOM launched an executive MBA program for healthcare professionals in 2005, and in 2006 it introduced its mandatory, team-taught \"Integrated Curriculum\" for all MBA students.\n\nConcurrently in 2012, SOM launched the Global Network for Advanced Management and the Master of Advanced Management (MAM) program, a one-year program in advanced leadership and management courses, open to students who have earned or are earning an MBA or equivalent degree from Global Network for Advanced Management member schools.\n\nIn 2014, Yale SOM enrolled its first class of students in an expanded MBA for Executives program, offering the Yale MBA integrated core along with advanced study in asset management, healthcare, or sustainability. That same year in January, SOM's new building, Edward P. Evans Hall, opened at 165 Whitney Avenue, one block away from the old campus on Hillhouse Avenue.\nFoster and Partners, the firm chaired by Pritzker Architecture Prize Laureate Lord Norman Foster ARCH ’62, designed the building with Gruzen Samton stated as the Architect of Record. Edward P. Evans Hall houses technology-enabled classrooms, faculty offices, academic centers, and student and meeting spaces organized around an enclosed courtyard.\n\nFor the 2006–07 academic year, the School introduced its Integrated Curriculum, an effort to move away from the typical \"siloed\" teaching approach to a more cross-disciplinary curriculum. This new curriculum is composed of two components: foundational skills classes in a program called \"Orientation to Management\" that take place during the first semester of the MBA program and a set of classes called \"Organizational Perspectives\" that take place during the second through fourth quarters of the first academic year and are case- and lecture-focused courses that decompose business components into the perspectives of different stakeholders.\n\nThe Orientation to Management is the first segment of the curriculum, which introduces students to core concepts and business skills. The constituent courses include Managing Groups and Teams, Global Virtual Teams, Basics of Accounting, Probability Modeling and Statistics, Basics of Economics, Modeling Managerial Decisions, and Introduction to Negotiation.\n\nOrganizational Perspectives is a series of interdisciplinary, team-taught master classes that make up the majority of required MBA courses at SOM. These courses include Employee, Innovator, Operations Engine, Sourcing and Managing Funds, Competitor, Customer, Investor, The Global Macro-economy, and State and Society. The final Organizational Perspectives course, the Executive, focuses on solving a series of case studies involving cross-national or global business challenges and draw on the subject matter taught in the other Organizational Perspectives courses and Orientation to Management skills.\n\nThe Organizational Perspectives courses are both in lecture and case format which include cases from multi-media \"raw\" cases developed by SOM and the Global Network for Advanced Management.\n\nMBA candidates are able to take electives courses at the School of Management commencing during the second semester of the MBA candidates' first year of instruction and during their entire second year of study. These electives include pedagogy drawing from traditional lecture and case-based instruction as well as includes independent reading and research with professors and instructors.\n\nSOM students are also permitted to enroll in the classes offered by other graduate and professional schools and at Yale University including the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Yale Law School, Yale School of Public Health, and undergrad classes at Yale College.\n\nMBA candidates are required to complete a Global Studies Requirement prior to graduation. This requirement can be fulfilled a number of ways including an International Experience Course, a Global Network Week, a Global Network Course, The Global Social Entrepreneurship Course, the Global Social Enterprise Course, or a term-long international exchange with a partner school.\n\nAdmission requirements for the MBA include an earned four-year bachelor's degree from an accredited U.S. institution or the international equivalent, completion of an online application form and essay, GMAT or GRE score, academic transcripts, two professional recommendations, completion of video questions, a behavioral assessment, and a fee. The behavioral assessment is a forced-choice, multiple-choice online module lasting 20–25 minutes that measures inter- and intra-personal competencies associated with business school success.\n\nYale SOM participates in GMAC's common recommendation form.\n\nThe default application fee is $225 for applicants, but a sliding-scale exists for applicants who's compensation might be lower due to geographic considerations, or an entire fee waiver for Peace Corps volunteers, staff and alumni of Teach for All Programs, US military or US veterans, current Yale Graduate students, and current Yale College students applying to the Silver Scholars program.\n\nOf all admitted applicants, 25% submit their application with a GRE score, one of the highest rates of any graduate business school accepting the GRE. Yale SOM has one of the highest average total GRE composite scores of 328 tied with Harvard Business School and University of Virginia Darden School of Business, one and two points behind University of California, Berkeley Haas School of Business and Stanford Graduate School of Business, respectively.\n\nYale SOM has three application rounds with rolling interviews, with 2019-2020 deadlines on September 10, 2019 for Round 1, January 7, 2020 for Round 2, and April 14, 2020 for Round 3.\n\nDuring the admissions cycle of 2018-2019, for the class of 2021, the MBA class is composed of 13% under-represented students of color, total students of color composes 29% of the class, along with 18 military veterans which is the highest number of veterans ever SOM has enrolled. There were also 17 Silver Scholars matriculating, also the highest number ever for the program, and approximately 11% of students are pursuing joint degrees. Matriculating students represent 186 different undergraduate schools and approximately 18% have completed another graduate degree.\n\nYale SOM is the fourth most selective MBA program with approximately 10.9 applicants competing for each seat. Yale SOM trails Stanford Graduate School of Business, MIT Sloan, and Berkeley Haas, but leads other schools such as Harvard Business School, Wharton School, Kellogg School of Management, and Chicago Booth.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> International Students is a metric of \"Intentional Passport Holders\"\n\nStudents represent 47 international countries in the class of 2021 from countries including Armenia, Ghana, Lebanon, Mauritius, and Peru.\n\nCollectively, the class of 2021 speaks 44 languages, with over 69% of the class speaking more than two languages, and 28% of the class speaking more than three languages.\n\nFor the MBA Class of 2017, the full-time median salary upon graduation was $124,900 with median other guaranteed compensation being $33,000. For the MBA Class of 2018, median internship salary was $1,904/ week. In 2016, Forbes reported the MBA class of 2012's median salary 5 years after graduation was about $200,000.\n\nYale is ranked Poets and Quants top ten over the past eight years, and has remained in tenth place since 2015.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2017, applications rose 46%—more than any other peer school, and 2017 alone saw a 12.3% increase in applications. In 2017, total academic quality of its incoming class was second only to Stanford, and total median pay of its alumni exceeded Columbia's, MITs, and U Chicago, despite more students than other peer schools pursuing non-profit work. Yale ranked number one in U.S. News & World Report's 2017 \"Best Non-Profit MBA Rankings.\"\n\nYale's faculty were rated #1 of all MBA faculty in the Economist survey in 2018.\n\nThe 2018 Princeton Review put SOM at #2 for \"Best Green MBA,\" #6 for \"Toughest MBA to get into,\" and #7 for \"Best MBA for Consulting\" and \"Best MBA for Management.\"\n\nThe Yale School of Management (SOM) offers a number of postgraduate degrees, including the two-year Master's of Business Administration (MBA), MBA for Executives, Global Pre-MBA Leadership Program, Master of Advanced Management (MAM), Masters of Management Studies in Systemic Risk, and several doctorate degrees.\n\nThe MBA a traditional full-time, two-year program that allows students to take a wide array of core courses and electives at the university.\n\nThe MBA for Executives at SOM during the 2017–18 academic year includes 71 students, 35% of whom are women. Graduates of the MBA for Executives program go through the full MBA-integrated core curriculum. They also take advanced management courses as well as colloquia and advanced courses in one of three areas of focus: healthcare, asset management, or sustainability.\n\nThe school offers a Global Pre-MBA Leadership Program that introduces recent college undergraduates from cultural backgrounds that are under-represented in graduate management education to the benefits of an MBA degree.\n\nThe Master of Advanced Management (MAM) program is a one-year program based at SOM's New Haven campus for business students from Global Network for Advanced Management schools. All MAM students matriculate into the MAM program immediately after their graduation from their respective business schools to continue the studies at SOM. MAM students participate in a required series of courses and discussions oriented around major trends in global business and the role of business leaders, and customize their experience by choosing electives from throughout Yale University.\n\nThe MAM class of 2016 is composed of 63 students from 34 countries and 20 Global Network for Advanced Management schools and is 38% women.\n\nThe Master of Management Studies in Systemic Risk is the most recent degree added to the SOM curriculum, added in the 2017–18 academic degree. The program is a specialized master's degree for early- and mid-career students who are interested in the role of central banking and other major regulatory agencies. The \"Wall Street Journal\" has described the program as a \"Degree of Danger\" as it focuses on training the \"next generation of regulators.\"\n\nThe Master of Management Studies in Asset management is a graduate degree program launching soon and will target students directly from their undergraduate education or those professionals with three or fewer years of work experience. The degree has been developed in collaboration with the Yale Investments Office and parallels one of the school's EMBA tracks in asset management.\n\nThe doctoral program (PhD) at Yale SOM is a full-time, in-residence program intended for students who plan scholarly careers involving research and teaching in management. There are five major tracks for PhD students follow at SOM: Accounting, Finance, Marketing, Operations, and Organizations and Management. The program is structured so that it can be completed in three to five years. The curriculum for the first two years of PhD candidates is composed of 14 courses, which include two core courses, a social science sequence, an empirical methods sequence, a depth requirement, a breadth requirement, and electives. The program is small and admits only a few students each year; there are currently 51 doctoral candidates in the program. All admitted students are given a full stipend for five years if they satisfy the program's requirements.\n\nThe School's joint-degree programs include the MBA/JD with Yale Law School, MBA/MD with Yale School of Medicine, MBA/PhD with Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, MBA/MEM or MF with Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, MBA/MArch with Yale School of Architecture, MBA/MFA with Yale School of Drama, MBA/MDiv or MBA/MAR with Yale Divinity School, MBA/MPH with Yale School of Public Health, and MBA/MA in Global Affairs with the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs. Approximately 11% of MBA candidates of the class of 2021 are pursuing dual degrees. Further, in the 2018-2019 academic year, over 1,300 instances of non-SOM students from Yale College and other Graduate and Professional schools registered for SOM classes.\n\nInitiated in 2001, it was originally open only to Yale undergraduates and was intended to attract more non-traditional MBA candidates with experience outside business and finance. It has since expanded to consider applications from college seniors around the world. Even so, the program remains small. In 2014, SOM admitted only 15 Silver Scholars.\n\nDespite conventional wisdom that MBA programs require previous work experience, Silver Scholars' job placement and scholarship statistics are at least as good as Yale's traditional MBAs. With an approximately 5% admit rate, the program is more selective than the traditional MBA program at Yale, as well as most other early admission MBA programs, including those at Stanford Graduate School of Business and Harvard Business School.\n\nThe School offers the Silver Scholars Program to exceptional college seniors with a \"combination of Intelligence, Maturity, and Curiosity, who aim to be leaders in their field.\" It's been called an \"alternative\" to deferred admissions policies for undergraduate applicants offered by other top MBA programs. It is distinct in that it is one of a very small number of schools to offer an MBA schedule specifically tailored to recent graduates, and the only one to offer a mid-program internship.\n\nSilver Scholars matriculate immediately from undergrad into the School of Management and participate in a one-year, full-time internship after completing the first year of the Integrated Core Curriculum. Following their internship, Silver Scholars return to campus to complete their second year of MBA coursework. At SOM, that second year has minimal requirements, and students may take courses across all Yale's grad schools. In some circumstances, Silver Scholars receive permission to defer their matriculation as a result of fellowships or other extraordinary circumstances or extend their internships by an additional year. A total of 17 Silver Scholars matriculated in the fall of 2019.\n\nStudents at the School, like all Yale University students and alumni, are called \"Yalies\" or \"SOMers.\" They operate more than 40 MBA student clubs. There are career-oriented clubs such as Finance, Private Equity, Investment Management, Technology, Marketing, and Consulting. There are clinic-type clubs, such as Global Social Enterprise and Outreach Nonprofit Consulting, through which students complete pro bono consulting engagements with local and international non-profits. There are also athletic clubs including soccer, frisbee, crew, rugby, skiing, and squash. SOM participates in the coed MBA ice hockey tournaments during winter months. The Yale SOM Cup soccer tournament is held in October and attracts clubs from numerous top business schools. Each November, many students attend the Harvard-Yale football game (known as \"The Game\"), the location of which alternates each year between New Haven and Cambridge. Yale MBA students, like other members of the Yale graduate student community, frequent Gryphon's Pub, the bar owned and operated by GPSCY (Graduate and Professional Students Center at Yale).\n\nThe Yale School of Management raised more than $3.9 million from a record 54.8% alumni in fiscal year 2018, the third straight year of participation of more than 50% of living alumni with an average donation size of $900.\n\nSOM is the business school with the second-highest alumni participation in annual charitable contributions, behind Dartmouth Tuck School of Business at 70+% contribution and ahead of the University of Virginia Darden School of Business at 42% participation according to 2015 statistics.\n\nThe graduating MAM, MBA, and Executive MBA classes of 2016 all had a 100% contribution rate towards their class gifts prior to commencement.\n\nThe School is home to the following research centers and programs:\n\n\"Yale\" \"Insights\" is published by Yale SOM, covering a wide range of topics at the intersection of business and society.\n\nSeveral podcasts are recorded at SOM, the most famous of which being \"The Design of Business | the Business of Design\", hosted by Yale professors Michael Bierut and Jessica Helfand in coordination with a class they teach at SOM.\n\nGraduates who meet income eligibility requirements and who work full-time for government or nonprofit organizations can receive full or partial loan reimbursement for their annual debt repayment on need-based loans. It is the first program of its kind (started in 1986), and \"is the most generous loan repayment program among business schools,\" with over $1.4M in loan forgiveness provided in 2014, and $7.7M from 2010–2015.\n\nThe School's endowment fund was valued at $861 million in 2019, which is the sixth largest endowment of any U.S. business school and third highest endowment per student. Yale University endowment fund manager David Swensen has generated exceptional investment returns over the past two decades.\n\n\n\"Also see: List of Yale University people\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948178", "title": "Anne of France", "text": "Anne of France\n\nAnne of France (or Anne de Beaujeu; 3 April 146114 November 1522) was a French princess and regent, the eldest daughter of Louis XI by Charlotte of Savoy. Anne was the sister of Charles VIII, for whom she acted as regent during his minority from 1483 until 1491. During the regency she was one of the most powerful women of late fifteenth-century Europe, and was referred to as \"Madame la Grande\". Between 1503 and 1521, she also acted as de facto regent of the Duchy of Bourbon during the reign of her daughter Suzanne, Duchess of Bourbon.\n\nAnne was born at the Chateau of Genappe in Brabant on 3 April 1461, the eldest surviving daughter of King Louis XI of France and Charlotte of Savoy. Her brother, Charles would later succeed their father as Charles VIII of France. Her younger sister Joan became for a brief period, a queen consort of France as the first wife of Louis XII.\n\nAnne was originally betrothed to Nicholas, Duke of Lorraine and was created Viscountess of Thouars in 1468 in anticipation of the marriage. However, Nicholas broke the engagement to pursue Mary, Duchess of Burgundy, and then died unexpectedly in 1473, prompting Louis to take back the fiefdom. That same year, on 3 November, Anne married Peter of Bourbon instead, and took up rule of the Beaujolais at the same time, when her husband was ceded the title of 'Lord of Beaujeu' by his brother the Duke of Bourbon. Anne was just twelve years old at the time.\n\nDuring the minority of Anne's brother, Charles VIII of France, Peter and Anne held the regency of France. This regency lasted from 1483 until 1491. Anne's regency overcame many difficulties, including unrest amongst the magnates who had suffered under Louis XI's oppression. Together Peter and Anne maintained the royal authority and the unity of the kingdom against the Orléans party, which was in open revolt during the \"Mad War\", which lasted from 1483 until 1488. \nConcessions, many of which sacrificed Louis's favourites, were made, and land was restored to many of the hostile nobles, including the future Louis XII of France, then Duke of Orléans. Louis tried to obtain the regency, but the Estates General sided with her.\n\nAs regent of France, Anne was one of the most powerful women in the late fifteenth century, and she was referred to as \"Madame la Grande\". In addition to having a strong, formidable personality, Anne was extremely intelligent, shrewd and energetic. Her father had termed her \"the least foolish woman in France\". Anne was dark-haired with a high forehead, a widow's peak, and finely-arched eyebrows. She was further described as having had clear brown eyes, direct in their gaze; a sharp, haughty nose, thin lips, thin hands, and she \"stood straight as a lance\".\n\nAnne was responsible for housing and educating many of the aristocracy's children, including Diane de Poitiers and Louise of Savoy. She is credited with instructing these young people with the new \"refined\" manners such as not using their fingers to wipe their noses but with a \"piece of fabric\". Louise of Savoy would act as regent several times when her son Francis was king. By being raised by Anne, she was able to learn about France and its governance from up close. Anne also oversaw the tutelage of Margaret of Austria, who had been intended as a bride for Anne's brother Charles. Margaret would later become Governor of the Habsburg Netherlands.\n\nShe gave her support to Henry Tudor against his rival, King Richard III of England, when he sought her aid to oust Richard, who was deemed by many to have been a usurper. Anne supplied him with French troops for the 1485 invasion which culminated at the Battle of Bosworth on 22 August, where Henry emerged the victor, ascending the throne as Henry VII.\n\nAnne made the final treaty ending the Hundred Years' War, the Treaty of Etaples and, in 1491 (despite Austrian and English opposition), arranged the marriage of her brother Charles to Anne, Duchess of Brittany, in order to annex Brittany to the French crown. When Charles ended the regency in 1491, both Anne and Peter fell victim to the wrath of the new queen, whose duchy's independence had been compromised.\n\nAnne and Peter produced only one surviving child, Suzanne, born 10 May 1491. Anne had an earlier pregnancy in 1476, but there were contradictory accounts about this: some said the baby was miscarried or stillborn, but others reported that a living son was born, Charles, styled Count of Clermont in 1488 as was customary for the heir of the Duchy of Bourbon, who died aged 22 in 1498 and was buried in the Abbey of Souvigny, Auvergne.\n\nSuzanne succeeded Peter as \"suo jure\" Duchess of Bourbon on his death in 1503. Anne, however, had always been the more dominant member in her marriage and remained the administrator of the Bourbon lands after his death, protecting them from royal encroachment.\n\nIn 1505, Anne arranged for Suzanne to marry another Bourbon prince, Charles of Montpensier, who became Charles III, Duke of Bourbon.\n\nHer daughter and son-in-law, however, failed to produce surviving offspring, and Suzanne predeceased her mother. When Anne herself died in 1522, her own line and that of her father became extinct. Anne of Laval, a descendant of Anne's aunt Yolande of Valois, was considered to be her heir.\n\nAnne wrote an instruction book for her daughter. It is called \"Lessons for My Daughter\". In it she advises her daughter to surround herself with frugal people and that true nobility comes from being humble, benign and courteous. Absent these, other virtues are worth nothing.\n\nA highly fictitious account of her life and her supposed romance with Louis XII was written in 1947 by Muriel Roy Bolton called \"The Golden Porcupine\". As it is a historical romance, the novel cannot be regarded as a biography. Anne also appears as a minor character in Michael Ennis' novel \"The Duchess of Milan\". She plays a prominent role in a film, , about the last days of Louis XI.\n\nShe makes a fleeting appearance in Victor Hugo's \"Notre Dame de Paris\": we are told that in December 1481, the Archdeacon of Josas, Claude Frollo, unsuccessfully attempts to block her visit to the cathedral cloister because she is a woman, then refuses to attend on her visit. The implication is that, already in sexual torment because of the gypsy Esméralda, he fears losing control in the presence of an attractive young woman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948179", "title": "Joint Security Area", "text": "Joint Security Area\n\nThe Joint Security Area (JSA, often referred to as the Truce Village or Panmunjom) is the only portion of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) where North and South Korean forces stand face-to-face. The JSA is used by the two Koreas for diplomatic engagements and, until March 1991, was also the site of military negotiations between North Korea and the United Nations Command (UNC).\n\nThe JSA has been the site of numerous events and incidents since its establishment in 1953, the first of which was the repatriation of prisoners of war (POWs) after the cessation of hostilities, across the Bridge of No Return. In 2018, North and South Korean officials agreed to clear the JSA of all landmines, weapons and guard posts. This withdrawal was complete on October 25, 2018 and the JSA now just contains 35 unarmed security guards. It was further agreed that henceforth, the area will serve mainly as a tourist attraction. On November 6, 2018, it was announced that the UNC would transfer primary guard duties of the now demilitarized Joint Security Area to both North and South Korea.\n\nThe Joint Security Area is located about south of the original village of Panmunjom. It is because of this proximity that the terms JSA and Panmunjom are often used interchangeably. The village encompassed a larger area than the current complex of the JSA, and consisted mostly of farms. It was destroyed during the war, and all that now remains on the site of the village is the building constructed for the signing of the Korean Armistice Agreement, now the North Korea Peace Museum. The site is administered by the United Nations Command.\n\nAmong the provisions of the Korean Armistice Agreement signed July 27, 1953, to bring a cease-fire in the Korean War, was establishment of the Military Armistice Commission (MAC), an agency to supervise implementation of the truce terms. Meetings of MAC representatives from the United Nations Command (UNC) and the Korean People's Army/Chinese People's Volunteers (KPA/CPV) were held at the Joint Security Area, an 800-meter (2600 ft) wide enclave, roughly circular in shape, bisected by the Military Demarcation Line (MDL) separating South and North Korea, and created as a neutral area, where there was free movement of both sides anywhere within the JSA boundaries.\n\nMilitary Police of both sides provide security for the JSA with guard forces of no more than 35 security personnel on duty at any given time. The administrative facilities for both guard forces are located within the JSA.\n\nWhile the boundary has remained the same over the years, the buildings themselves have changed. Some have been removed, including all of the KPA checkpoints on the southern half of the JSA. New buildings have been constructed, whilst some existing buildings have been expanded or simply renovated. The only boundary change of the Joint Security Area was the enforcement of the dividing line within the JSA after the murders of two American officers in 1976. Prior to this, the entire area was neutral, where members of either side possessed the freedom of movement within the JSA.\n\nSince the enforcement of the Military Demarcation Line (MDL) within the JSA, several UNC checkpoint buildings have also been rebuilt and/or renamed as well. Examples of this are what was called Observation Post (OP) No. 5 on the hill overlooking the Bridge of No Return, is now Checkpoint (CP) #3, while what used to be called CP#3 (and sometimes called \"The Loneliest Outpost in the World\") was the UNC checkpoint at the southern end of the Bridge of No Return. After the enforcement of the MDL however, the North Koreans no longer had a road leading into the JSA and within 72 hours built what has now become known as the \"72-Hour Bridge\" or \"Bridge of 72 Hours\".\n\n\n\n\nThe United Nations Command Security Battalion—Joint Security Area was constituted on May 5, 1952, as Army Unit 8020, United Nations Command Military Armistice Commission Support Group (Provisional). Originally authorized five officers and ten enlisted soldiers, the unit grew to over 1,400 officers and men supporting almost 32,000 soldiers, civilians, and diplomats involved in negotiating and then enforcing the Armistice Agreement. By the end of February 1954 the scope of work declined and the number of soldiers assigned to the unit declined as well.\n\nFor the next 50 years, the unit underwent several organizational and name changes, although the original mission to secure the Joint Security Area remains the same today as it was in 1952. On June 11, 1979, the name was changed from US Army Support Group (Joint Security Area) to United Nations Command Support Group—Joint Security Area, and further changed to United Nations Command Security Force—Joint Security Area on December 23, 1985. On October 15, 1994, UNC Commander directed that the unit be known by its present designation, the United Nations Command Security Battalion—Joint Security Area.\n\nOriginally a purely U.S. Army organization, the unit also included ROK soldiers (KATUSAs). In addition, ROK Army officers served as liaison officers. In the mid-1970s the JSA consisted of the JSF company with three platoons of one U.S. and one ROKA officer, and thirty enlisted men, supported by a battalion staff. The three platoons were led by the U.S. officer with the ROK officer as the executive officer, and U.S. Army platoon sergeants. The platoons consisted of three squads, with equal numbers of U.S. and KATUSA soldiers.\n\nSometime after 1979, another (fourth) platoon was added to the JSF to allow time for training during platoon work rotations. In July 1987 the four platoons of the Joint Security Force (JSF) company were reorganized to mix KATUSA and US soldiers at all levels. At the platoon level, two platoons were led by U.S. Army lieutenants and ROKA platoon sergeants, and two were led by ROKA lieutenants and US Army platoon sergeants. In November 1987 the unit received a ROK Army major as its first deputy commander.\n\nOn April 25, 1992, the JSF company became a KATUSA-pure formation. Captain Yin Sung-hwan became the first ROK commander assisted by a U.S. Army lieutenant as his executive officer. The number of U.S. Army personnel assigned to the unit fell below 200 for the first time since 1952. American forces assigned to the JSA assumed mainly administrative and support roles.\n\nOn October 31, 2004, a ROK Army battalion assumed sole responsibility for the Joint Security Area. This modified light infantry battalion consisted of a battalion headquarters, a headquarters company, two security companies, and a civil affairs company. The number of U.S. personnel assigned decreased further, reflecting the UNC Commander's desire to minimize the USFK presence near the Korean Demilitarized Zone. The commander of the ROKA JSA Battalion serves as the UNCSB-JSA Deputy Commander. The UNCSB-JSA Commander's principal responsibility now lies in his operational control of selected ROKA formations during both Armistice and wartime periods.\n\nBoth sides placed guards between the blue meeting houses, where the demarcation line is marked by blocks of concrete. South Korean guards in this area were armed with pistols and they stood in a modified taekwondo stance with stolid facial expressions, clenched fists and sunglasses, which was meant to intimidate the North Korean guards. The South Korean guards had to be at least 170 cm (5'6\") tall, and have a black belt in taekwondo or judo.\n\nSince October 25, 2018, guards in the Joint Security area no longer have posts. They are also required to maintain a capacity no larger than 35 people and must be unarmed. Freedom of movement across the border must also be enforced for visitors and tourists at some point as well.\n\nOn November 6, 2018, both Koreas and the UNC established new rules which called for, among other things, the transfer of guard duty command to both Koreas for each of their respective sides of the area.\n\nDuring one of the initial negotiations of the armistice, agents of the KPA/CPV side went into the truce tents one night and sawed down the chair legs of the UNC delegation. The next day, when the UNC delegates arrived, they were forced to sit lower than their KPA/CPV counterparts and lost face, so they quickly left the meeting. At a later meeting, the UNC delegation brought a flag into the truce tent and set it up on the meeting table. The KPA/CPV delegation left after losing face, but showed up at the next meeting with a flag that was larger than the UNC flag. At the following meeting, the UNC delegation brought in a slightly larger flag. This kept up until a special meeting was called just to discuss the size of the flags, as they had grown too large to fit within the tents. The size of the flags within the meeting building have stayed about the same since then, with only minor changes. The KPA flag is wider than the UNC flag, but the UNC flag is longer. The KPA flag has thicker fringe around the edges of the flag, but the UNC's trim is longer. The truck at the top of the KPA flagpole is taller than the UNC truck, but the UNC's is wider. The KPA flag has a three tiered base while the UNC flag only has two tiers, but each of the tiers on the UNC base is taller than any of the tiers on the KPA flag.\n\nBeing at the center of one of the world's most tense military and political fault lines, the Joint Security Area has been the site of numerous interactions between North and South, including over 750 overt acts of violence. The UNC has documented most of the violent incidents with reports and photographs, which have been reported in the course of MAC meetings. Countless fistfights, shouting matches, exchanges of rude gestures, and other provocations have occurred since 1953. There have also been several prisoner exchanges and other interactions.\n\n\nThis operation was a test case for prisoner repatriation, one of the four main issues of contention during two years of negotiation. 605 sick, wounded, and/or injured UNC prisoners were exchanged for 6,030 sick or injured Communist prisoners.\n\nBased on the success of the repatriations undertaken earlier, a general exchange of prisoners began in late April. During Operation Big Switch, prisoners were brought to Panmunjom, on the banks of the Sachong River. Each prisoner was then asked if he wished to cross the river and return to his countrymen or remain with his captors. Once the choice was made there was no turning back—hence the name Bridge of No Return. During this time 13,444 UNC prisoners returned to UNC countries, and 89,493 KPA and CPV prisoners returned to their Communist countries. In June 1953, ROK president Syngman Rhee released a further 25,000 KPA soldiers held in ROKA camps (mostly southerners impressed into service for the north) into South Korea in an attempt to wreck the armistice negotiations.\n\nThe Armistice Agreement provided that a nonbelligerent nation would provide security forces to hold any prisoner of war who refused repatriation. India provided 6,413 soldiers for this purpose. After landing at the port of Inchon, the UNCMAC Support Group (Provisional) moved all personnel to the Demilitarized Zone by helicopter in a single day without incident.\n\nApproximately 23,000 KPA and CPV soldiers held in UNC prisoner of war camps refused to return to Communist control. Twenty-two UNC soldiers (21 Americans, one Briton) also refused repatriation. Under the provisions of the Armistice, these soldiers were held for a further six months and interviewed by neutral observers to ensure they had not been coerced into refusing repatriation. Most KPA expatriates remained in South Korea, while the overwhelming majority of CPV expatriates traveled to Taiwan to join the Nationalists.\n\nDuring this operation the UNCMACSG(P) oversaw the repatriation of displaced persons, expellees, and refugees from North Korea to South Korea across the Military Demarcation Line at Panmunjom.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Joint Security Area currently has around 100,000 tourists visit each year through several tourism companies and the USO (through the various U.S. military commands in Korea). Before being allowed to enter the DMZ, if visiting from the South, tourists are given a briefing during which they must sign a document which states, in part, \"The visit to the Joint Security Area at Panmunjom will entail entry into a hostile area and possibility of injury or death as a direct result of enemy action.\" During a meeting held between the UN command and military officers from North and South Korea on the South Korean side of Panmunjom on October 16, 2018, it was agreed the Joint Security Area disarmament is complete, civilian and foreign tourists will be allowed to visit the border area from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. without restrictions about what they can wear. It was agreed that at this point, the Military Demarcation Line which runs through the Joint Security Area will be open to local and foreign tourists so they can reenact Kim and Moon's crossing which occurred on April 27, 2018. This withdrawal was complete on October 25, though tourism has been delayed. No date was set for the resumption of Joint Security Area tourism when rules were established for the transfer of guard duty command on November 6, 2018 as well.\n\nVillages within the DMZ:\n\n"}
{"id": "1948196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948196", "title": "Caja de Muertos", "text": "Caja de Muertos\n\nCaja de Muertos (; also in English: \"Coffin Island\") is an uninhabited island off the southern coast of Puerto Rico, in the municipality of Ponce. The island is protected by the \"Reserva Natural Caja de Muertos\" natural reserve, because of its native turtle traffic. Hikers and beachgoers are often seen in the island, which can be reached by ferry from the La Guancha Boardwalk sector of Ponce Playa. Together with Cardona, Ratones, Morrillito, Isla del Frio, Gatas, and Isla de Jueyes, Caja de Muertos is one of seven islands ascribed to the municipality of Ponce.\n\nIn 1599, several English merchants departed to China with a letter from Queen Elizabeth to the Chinese government. However, the expedition was dangerous and a ship was lost to the weather. Off the Indian coast the group turned to piracy and after learning of a Portuguese ship filled with gold, silver, precious stones, other treasures and other valuables (spices, silk, some clothing), they attacked and captured the vessel. The fleet managed to capture another vessel, but in the process lost its flagship and a large part of the crew was fatally injured, including the fleet commander. Shorthanded, the group decided to return to England aboard a smaller ship, taking part of the loot with them. After surviving an attempted mutiny, the Englishmen decided to take a canoe left behind by a frigate off Puerto Rico's eastern coast from where they took refuge at Caja de Muertos. Losing the smaller vessel, the Englishmen traveled to the main island in search of provisions, but one of them left behind to mind the canoe was captured and let the presence of the treasure known to the local authorities.\n\nThis led to an incursion to take the treasure, where all but one of the Englishmen were suddenly executed despite negotiations and the Spanish took the treasure with them and reported it as being captured in a battle with the English. The lone survivor, named Thomas, managed to build a makeshift boat out of wood remnants and drifted to Puerto Rico, being taken to San Germán and telling his version of the events. The governor of Puerto Rico grew suspicious and an investigation was held between the autumn of 1599 and early 1600, which lead to a confession by one of the murderers. The authorities then began confiscating the treasure seized during the incursion, with other parts disappearing and reportedly ending in the hands of the governor's own nephew. The treasure confiscated was auctioned, with about 4,000 ducats of Indian silver remaining by 1602. The following governor employed another part in construction, with a collection of jewels and bars that were left behind being sold. The last piece, a large gemstone, was sent abroad for transport to Spain. From these events, the island would gain the moniker of \"Isla de Caja de Muertos\" (\"Dead Man Island\").\n\nCaja de Muertos is located 5.2 mi (8.4 km) south of the Puerto Rican mainland and is part of the Playa barrio of Ponce, Puerto Rico, municipality.\n\nThe island measures long northeast-southwest, and up to wide [ on the average]. It has an area of . Close by are Morrillito Key [ off the southwest point, ] and Berbería Key [ to the northeast, ], both part of the \"Caja de Muertos Natural Reserve\". Berbería Key belongs to \"Rio Canas Abajo\" barrio of Juana Diaz municipality.\n\nThe climate is dry and the island supports dry forest. A still-functioning lighthouse, Caja de Muertos Light, established in 1887 and automated in 1945, sits atop the highest hill on the island. This 170 foot high hill is located at the southwest extreme of the island.\n\nThe island has four beaches: Pelicano, Playa Larga, Carrucho, and Coast Guard. The island also possesses fauna and flora not found anywhere else in the world. The island has no permanent residents, but the Government of Puerto Rico maintains Department of Natural Resources staff and security personnel there. In 1899, it registered a permanent population of 64 residents, but it since declined to zero.\n\nThough there is no consensus on how the island got its name, one story given by Kurt Pitzer and Tara Stevens is that of a Portuguese pirate, Jose Almeida. A former merchant sailor, Almeida fell in love with a Basque lady in Curaçao, married her in St. Thomas, US Virgin Islands and took her pirating with him around the Caribbean. On the first raid, she was killed by a stray bullet. Distraught, Almeida had her embalmed and placed in a glass box inside a copper coffin. He buried her in a cave in a deserted island near Ponce. He would come every month to gaze over her preserved body and leave half of his treasure in her grave. Almeida, however, was caught in the Puerto Rico mainland, tried, and executed in El Morro in 1832. Many years later, a Spanish engineer discovered the glass and copper coffin, and identifying the cay on a map gave it its present name. The treasure found, if any, was kept secret.\n\nAnother possibility is that the island got its name because it resembles someone lying down when seen from the main island. Caja de Muertos can be translated into English as \"Coffin\" or \"Dead Man's Chest\".\nIn 1901, it was suggested by one A. W. Van Buren of Yale University that the island's name may be related to the sea shanty \"Dead man's chest\", first written by Robert Louis Stevenson for his novel \"Treasure Island\"; however, no scholar since Van Buren has made this connection nor is there any evidence to support such a claim. Further, Van Buren says that Stevenson did not write the song \"Dead man's chest\" himself, that he \"picked it up somewhere\", which is another baseless claim (see \"Dead man's chest\" for more information on the fakelore surrounding this song).\n\nThe official version of the origin of the name, as given by the Puerto Rico Department of Natural Resources, and under whose care the island is currently entrusted, is as follows: \"Its name is attributed to the 18th-century French writer Jean-Baptiste Labat who called it \"Coffre à mort\" (Caja de Muertos) or \"Bomba d'Infierno\", making reference to the fact that when the island is seen from certain places in southern Puerto Rico, it gives the impression of seeing a dead person laying on a plateau.\"\n\nSince 1511, the island has been called by different names including Isla Abeiranas, Abairianay, Antías, Jutías, Yautías, Utías, Abeianay, Angulo, Isla Bestia, and Isla del Tesoro, in addition to the translations as \"Coffre A’morr\", \"Deadman’s Chest\", and \"Coffin Island\".\n\nThe island was designated as a nature reserve in 1980 after a meeting was held in Puerto Rico by the Puerto Rico Planning Board wherein they considered the recommendation set forth by the Coastal Management Zone Program to turn the island into a protected wilderness area. The island has remained a protected area ever since. The protection is mainly due to its heavy turtle traffic which is an endangered species.\n\nThe island is home to five beaches: Playa Pelícano, Playa Ensenadita (\"Pocitas\"), Playa Larga, Playa Blanca (also called Playa Coast Guard), and Playa Chica. Playa Pelícano has been named a blue flag beach.\n\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1948218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948218", "title": "Hjalmar Mellin", "text": "Hjalmar Mellin\n\nRobert Hjalmar Mellin (June 19, 1854 – April 5, 1933) was a Finnish mathematician and functional theorist.\n\nMellin studied at the University of Helsinki and later in Berlin under Karl Weierstrass. He is chiefly remembered as the developer of the integral transform known as the \"Mellin transform\". He was appointed professor at the Polytechnic Institute in Helsinki, which later became Helsinki University of Technology with Mellin as first rector.\n\nLate in his career Mellin also became known for his critical opposition to the theory of relativity; he published several papers in which he argued against the theory from a chiefly philosophical standpoint. In his private life he was known as an outspoken fennoman: a proponent of adopting Finnish as the language of state and culture in the Grand Duchy of Finland, in preference to Swedish, which had predominantly been used hitherto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948219", "title": "ZPC", "text": "ZPC\n\nZPC (\"Zero Population Count\") is a first-person shooter video game which uses the \"Marathon 2\" engine. It was developed by Zombie LLC, published by GT Interactive Software and released on October 31, 1996. It was noted for its stylized look adapted from artwork by Aidan Hughes (also credited with the game's concept).\n\nThe story focuses on Arman, an exiled \"Warrior Messiah\" who has come of age and sets out to reclaim his throne.\n\nAt some point prior to November 2003, Hughes announced plans to create or bring about a full-length \"ZPC\" film. However, nothing is known to have come of this.\n\nAir Hendrix of \"GamePro\" found \"ZPC\" severely outdated, for both its 2D graphics and its gameplay, which he found made little advance beyond 1993's \"Doom\". However, he remarked that the \"stark, sombre visual style\" and moody music would highly appeal to many, and that this would make the gameplay more enjoyable to those players. A \"Next Generation\" critic said much the same: \"Gameplay sticks to the tried-and-true tactics of the legion of \"Doom\" clones ... While the level and puzzle design are entirely satisfying, \"ZPC\" would be just another pretender to the throne if it weren't for the tremendous atmosphere provided by artists Aiden Hughes and musicians Roland and Paul Barker\". He elaborated that \"Hughes's predominantly black and red palette and structuralist approach make \"ZPC\" one of the most unique-looking games around.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1948222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948222", "title": "Samuel Perez", "text": "Samuel Perez\n\nSamuel Pérez Quiñones C. A., DMA, Applied Music (Piano), University of Michigan is a Puerto Rican pianist with a doctorate degree in Music Arts. He is a faculty member of the Music Department of the University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras Campus. Perez has vast experience traveling through Europe and the United States, exposing his intense talent on the wooden instrument.\n\nIn 2003 he conducted a series of six concerts in Germany and Austria where he had tremendous appraisal at the piano concerto in Himmelkron Castle in Bayreuth. In Austria he was soloist for the St. Oswald-Moderbrugg band and also interpreted pieces by Mozart, Albéniz, Liszt and Rachmaninoff.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948226", "title": "Remy Shand", "text": "Remy Shand\n\nRemy Shand (born October 14, 1977) is a Canadian R&B/soul singer, who released his debut album, \"The Way I Feel\", on Motown Records in 2002.\n\nShand was born to parents Doug and Lana Shand.\n\nShand became a fan of artists such as Stevie Wonder, The Isley Brothers, Marvin Gaye, Steely Dan and Earth, Wind & Fire. During 1998 he began to write and record songs independently. Three years later, he was signed to Motown Records, and these songs became the basis for his first album, \"The Way I Feel\" which was released on March 12, 2002. The album and won a Juno Award for Best R&B/Soul Recording in the 2003 Juno Awards. In 2002, Shand also recorded hit singles \"Rock Steady\" and \"Take A Message\".\n\nShand also received four Grammy nominations for his work.\n\n\nJuno Awards\nGrammy Awards\n\n"}
{"id": "1948231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948231", "title": "Clearwater County, Alberta", "text": "Clearwater County, Alberta\n\nClearwater County is a municipal district in west central Alberta, Canada in Division No. 9. Its northwest boundary is the Brazeau River. The municipal office is located in the Town of Rocky Mountain House. The county has a land area of 18,691.65 km² (7,216.89 sq mi) and comprises close to 99% of Census Division No. 9's land area of 18,921.38 km² (7,305.59 sq mi). Although the territory excluded is rather small in geographical area, it comprises the major population centre of Rocky Mountain House, which has one-third of Division No. 9's population, in addition to the communities of Caroline, Burnstick Lake and three Indian reserves. The county's 2016 census population was 11,947.\nThe economy of the county is based on agriculture, oil and gas and forestry, with tourism increasing in importance in recent years.\n\nOn July 1, 2000, the name was changed from \"Municipal District of Clearwater No. 99\" to \"Clearwater County\".\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Clearwater County recorded a population of 11,947 living in 4,699 of its 5,486 total private dwellings, a change from its 2011 population of 12,278. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, Clearwater County had a population of 12,278 living in 4,698 of its 5,358 total dwellings, a 3.8% change from its 2006 population of 11,826. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\n\nThe following urban municipalities are surrounded by Clearwater County:\n\nThe following hamlets are located within Clearwater County:\n\nThe following localities are located within Clearwater County:\n\n\nPhoenix, a former coal mining community between Nordegg and Rocky Mountain House, is also located within Clearwater County.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948242", "title": "Yamaha MT-100", "text": "Yamaha MT-100\n\nThe Yamaha MT-100 Multitrack Cassette Recorder is an analog tool developed for recording artists in the late 1980s. It was marketed just before the advent of Digital Audio Tape.\nIn essence it allowed variable speed recording of 4 tracks of audio that could be mixed and merged and re-recorded onto standard cassette tape. It had its broadest applications with keyboard and guitar players.\n\nThe Yamaha MT-100 is useful to capture multi part ideas quickly and simply. Yamaha created the DX7 keyboard , RX 5 drum machine, RX 11 DRUM Machine and QX1 sequencer. A sequencer is a device that records MIDI Data digitally capturing musical arrangement code vs. capturing sounds on tape. This was a revelation at the time for people working with Samplers and Synthesizers that had multi-track music sequencer built in.\n\nDirect line in recording from sequencers allowed for remarkably clean recordings with a usable dynamic audio range.\n\nIntroduction from Manual:\n\nCONGRATULATIONS! Your MT100 Multitrack Cassette Recorder is a fine creative tool that will help you work with sound in many ways. No other multitrack cassette recorder offers the straight forward simplicity and ease-of-use of the MT1OO. Whether you need to record acoustic instruments or voice using microphones, electronic instruments and sources via direct line, or a creative blend of the two, the MT1OO makes the process of building up your own sound extraordinarily smooth and simple. You can simply record and remix four tracks, or use the multitrack \"ping-pong\" recording technique to individually record up to ten independent parts - adding sound layer by layer until you create exactly the arrangement and texture your imagination demands. The MT100 is just as easy to use alone or with a band. And, because it's a YAMAHA, you know that the MT100 will give you the finest sound quality and overall performance available.\n\nIn order to make use of the MT 100's many features and obtain maximum performance, we urge you to read this operation manual thoroughly - and keep it in a safe place for later reference.\n"}
{"id": "1948244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948244", "title": "Metso", "text": "Metso\n\nMetso Oyj is a Finnish industrial machinery company focusing on providing technology and services for mining, aggregates, and oil and gas, recycling, pulp and paper and other process industries. The company employs over 13,000 people in 50 countries. Metso's shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Finland.\n\nIn July 2019, it was announced that Metso and Outotec are planning to combine Metso’s Minerals business unit with Outotec. The new company will be called Metso Outotec.\n\nMetso was created through the merger of Valmet and in 1999. In 2013, Metso demerged into two separate companies: Metso Corporation and Valmet Corporation.\n\nMetso was created on July 1, 1999 through the merger of Valmet, a paper and board machine supplier, and Rauma, which focused on fiber technology, rock crushing and flow control solutions.\n\nIn 1998 Rauma's businesses included:\n\n\nThe new company had overlapping operations and to some extent the same customer base too. The purpose of the merger was the will to grow particularly in process technology. For a bigger company it seemed to be easier to survive better in international markets. The company's scope of business became more diversified than before and there were critics of the merger saying that easier growth would have been achieved if the two companies would have each acquired a competitor in their own core business sector.\n\nThe new company had offices in 50 countries and 32,000 employees after a personnel reduction of 2,000 people, and it operated in four sectors:\n\n\nThe name for the new company was sought in an employee contest. There were 3 suggestions for the name Metso among the total 6 500 suggestions. All the three who had suggested the name Metso received a monetary prize. Metso is the Finnish word for Wood Grouse, also known as The Western Capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus), Heather Cock or Capercaillie. Wood Grouse is found across Europe lives e.g. in Finnish pine forests. Metso's logo mimics the shape of the wings of a Wood Grouse.\n\nSundberg and Hakala did not stay that long in Metso's management. Tor Bergman became the new President and CEO in 2001. In 2001, Metso's net sales were EUR 4.7 billion, and it had 28,500 employees.\n\nThe new Metso Group was divided into three business areas:\n\n\nThe merger of Valmet and Rauma had given direction to the company's future focus on\n\n\nThis formed Metso's three main business areas:\n\n\nBusiness operations outside the core businesses were divested. For example, in 2000, Metso acquired the roll cover business and paper machine servicing operations, including paper machine technologies, from the American paper machine manufacturer Beloit (corporation), and the American John Deere aka Deere & Company acquired the forest machine manufacturer Timberjack from Metso. In 2001, Metso acquired the Swedish Svedala Industri AB, a manufacturer of rock and minerals processing equipment.\n\nIn 2002, Metso announced that it would not achieve its profit targets for two years, and a loss in excess of EUR 300 million was recorded for July–September. The reason for difficulties was Svedala. In 2003, a loss of over EUR 200 million was recorded and in September 2003, President and CEO Bergman was forced to resign because of the company's poor results. Jorma Eloranta was selected as Bergman's successor. He started in March 2004.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2007, Metso's net sales increased from EUR 3.6 billion to EUR 6.3 billion, and the profit margin rose from 5.5 percent to 9.3 percent.\nDuring Eloranta's tenure, Metso increased its net sales and improved its financial performance for 19 consecutive quarters (2004-2008).\n\nMetso's business functions had divided into three sectors (Metso Paper, Metso Minerals and Metso Automation) with over 28,000 employees and net sales of EUR 6.4 billion. In fact, at that point, it was Metso's best year ever in terms of operating profit and net sales, but the rapidly weakened market situation in the second half of the year forced Metso to initiate sizable measures to adjust its operations.\n\nBy 2008, Metso had become Finland's ninth largest company and the number of Metso shareholders had increased from 25,000 to 42,000. Metso strengthened its market position and service capacity in growing markets, particularly in India and China. During 2008, the expansions to the Ahmedabad foundry and the Bawal factory in India were completed.\n\nMetso also purchased the paper machine technology of Japanese Mitsubishi Heavy Industries’ (MHI), making Metso the sole owner of Beloit's paper machinery intellectual property globally.\n\nIn September 2008, Metso sold 83% of its foundry in Sweden to an investment group assembled by the Primaca investment company. The Metso Foundries Karlstad unit specialized in casts of wind power components, diesel engine blocks and Yankee cylinders for paper machines.\n\nBy 2009, half of Metso's orders received in 2009 came from emerging markets, compared to less than one fifth in 1999. In the same year, Metso entered into a combination agreement with Tamfelt, one of the world's leading suppliers of technical textile. Subsequently, Metso made a public exchange offer for all of Tamfelt's shares.\n\nIn the first half of 2009, Metso laid off over 700 employees and shut down several small units in e.g. Tampere, Turku, Oulu and Hollola. The operations of the shut-down units were integrated with the Järvenpää and Jyväskylä units. Metso's strategy for the 2000s was to manufacture wide, high-speed paper machines and discontinue its traditional paper machine concepts.\n\nMatti Kähkönen was appointed the new President and CEO of Metso Corporation on March 1, 2011. Previously, Kähkönen had headed Metso's Mining and Construction segment. Despite the global economic uncertainty, Metso's profitability grew steadily in 2011. The services business, with a value of over three billion euros, accounted for about 40 percent of orders received in 2011.\n\nIn September 2012, Metso announced the need for a personnel reduction of more than 600 Finnish employees in several of its business units serving the paper industry and paper production. The reason for the reductions is structural change in the industry and due to that the weakening of paper business unit's competitiveness and profitability: competition has increased, demand for paper machine and foundry products has weakened. Customers want cheaper solutions than before. Metso had planned to give extra dividend for its shareholders but after the decision of paying dividends while cutting staff was criticized e.g. by personnel and the Finnish politics the decision was cancelled.\n\nIn 2012, Metso agreed to form a joint venture with China's LiuGong Group to develop the track-mounted crushing business in China, consolidated its valve operations in the United States into new premises in Massachusetts and opened a new valve supply and service center in Vadodara, India. In the same year, Metso acquired the Korean valve manufacturer Valstone Control Inc., U.S. software company ExperTune Inc. and 75 percent of the Chinese crushing and screening equipment producer Shaorui Heavy Industries.\n\nMetso Recycling business offers metal and waste recycling equipment and services globally. On September 1, 2011, Metso announced that the Recycling business would be managed as a separate entity while Metso reviews other strategic alternatives for it. As part of this process, Metso evaluated both external and internal options. On October 25, 2012, Metso announced that Metso Recycling will be integrated into Mining and Construction as of December 1, 2012.\n\nIn August 2013, Metso closed the acquisition of Chinese manganese steel foundry JX.\n\nOn October 1, 2013, the Extraordinary General Meeting approved the demerger of Metso into two companies. At the start of 2014, Metso Corporation's Mining and Construction business and Automation business formed the new Metso Corporation and Metso's Pulp, Paper and Power business formed a new independent company under the name Valmet Corporation.\n\nIn December 2013 Metso reduced its holding in Valmet Automotive to approximately 41%. As a result of this arrangement, Valmet Automotive ceased to be a Metso subsidiary.\n\nIn 2015, Metso divested its Process Automation Systems (PAS) business to Valmet, focusing on their mining and aggregates industries operations and on the flow control systems manufacturing business.\n\nIn July 2019, it was announced that Metso and Outotec are planning to combine Metso’s Minerals business unit with Outotec. Their combination is complementary and the new company, Metso Outotec will leverage their strengths. The new company’s headquarters will be in Finland and it will maintain its listing on Nasdaq Helsinki. Before the transaction can be completed, the approval is needed by a majority of two-thirds of votes cast and shares represented at the respective EGMs of Metso and Outotec, as well as regulatory approvals.\n\nMetso's President and CEO as well as Chairman of the Executive Team is Pekka Vauramo as of November 1, 2018.\n\nMetso's Board includes the following members.\n\nThe Executive Team includes the following members.\n\nFor minerals processing in the mining, aggregates and recycling industries, Metso's offering includes crushers, screens, mining solutions, grinding mills and media, conveyors, solutions for bulk materials handling as well as process, pyro processing and recycling equipment.\n\nMetso's biggest competitors in the mining industry include FLSmidth, Outotec and ThyssenKrupp, and in the construction industry Terex, Atlas Copco, Caterpillar and Sandvik.\n\nMetso's flow control business develops and produces valves and services for various process industries. The business sector was formed in 1999 through the merger of the process automation systems manufacturer Valmet Automation and Neles Controls, a manufacturer of valves and flow control systems.\n\nMetso's customers operate in mining, aggregates, recycling and process industries.\n\nMetso's share is listed on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. The share was previously traded also on the New York Stock Exchange, but the listing there ended on September 14, 2007 and now, in the US, it is exchanged on the over-the-counter (OTC) market.\n\nMetso's biggest registered shareholders on September 30, 2016 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "1948249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948249", "title": "Hark! The Village Wait", "text": "Hark! The Village Wait\n\nHark! The Village Wait is the debut album by the British folk rock band Steeleye Span, first released in 1970. It is the only album to feature the original lineup of the band as they broke up and reformed with an altered membership immediately after its release, without ever having performed live. Therefore, it is one of only two Steeleye Span studio albums to feature two female vocalists (Maddy Prior and Gay Woods), the other being \"Time\" (1996). A similar sound was apparent years later when Prior teamed up with June Tabor to form Silly Sisters. Overall, the album's sound is essentially folk music with rock drumming and bass guitar added to some of the songs. The banjo features prominently on several tracks, including \"Blackleg Miner\", \"Lowlands of Holland\" and \"One Night as I Lay on My Bed\".\n\nThe album's title refers not to the act of waiting, but to a \"wait\", a small body of wind instrumentalists employed by a town at public charge from Tudor times until the early 19th century. A village, however, would likely be too small to employ such a troupe, so the wait referred to here was most probably the later Christmas Waits, as mentioned in the novels of Thomas Hardy.\n\nOver the years, the band has returned to the material on this album several times. On their second album, \"Please to See the King\", they offered a new version of \"The Blacksmith\". A new live version of \"Blackleg Miner\" appeared on \"Back in Line\", and they offered a third variation on \"Present--The Very Best of Steeleye Span\". On \"Time\" they reprised \"Twa Corbies\". \"Copshawholme Fair\" had two years earlier been recorded by Prior and Tim Hart on their album \"Folk Songs of Olde England Vol. 2\". Copshaw Holm, otherwise known as Newcastleton, has been the site of a folk festival since 1970. Maddy Prior has lived nearby, just over the border in Cumbria, at 'Stones Barn' for several years.\n\nAmong the other songs on the album are the a cappella \"A Calling-On Song\" (the first of many a cappella pieces the band recorded), \"The Hills of Greenmore\" and \"Dark-Eyed Sailor\". The version of \"Lowlands of Holland\" here uses variant lyrics from the most common version of the song.\n\nThe album was originally issued in the UK on RCA, with the cover shown (above right). It was not issued in the US at that time. The cover for the reissue was changed to a sepia-toned image of 'The Leather Bottle', a pub in Cobham; it was issued on UK Chrysalis (and made its debut in the US on US Chrysalis) in 1975.\n\nAll songs traditional, except where noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948253", "title": "Please to See the King", "text": "Please to See the King\n\nPlease To See The King is the second album by Steeleye Span, released in 1971. A major personnel change following their previous effort, \"Hark! The Village Wait\", brought about a substantial change in their overall sound, including a lack of drums and the replacement of one female vocalist with a male vocalist. The band even reprised a song from their debut, \"The Blacksmith\", with a strikingly different arrangement making extensive use of syncopation. Re-recording songs would be a minor theme in Steeleye's output over the years, with the band eventually releasing an entire album of reprises, \"Present – The Very Best of Steeleye Span\".\n\nThe title of the album is derived from the \"Cutty Wren\" ceremony. A wren in a cage is paraded as if it were a king. This rite was carried out on December 26, Saint Stephen's Day, and is connected to early Christmas celebrations. The song \"The King\", appearing on the album, addresses this, and is often performed as a Christmas carol. Steeleye Span returned to this subject on \"Live at Last\" with \"Hunting the Wren\" and on \"Time\" with the song \"The Cutty Wren\". The custom of Wrenboys is mostly associated with Ireland, but it has been recently revived in England.\n\nAll songs appearing on the original album are traditional. \"The False Knight on the Road\" is one of the Child Ballads (#3), and concerns a boy's contest with the devil in a game of riddles. Tim Hart and Maddy Prior had already recorded a version of the song on their album \"Summer Solstice\". \"The Lark in the Morning\", one of their more popular songs, has the same title as a different song about a lusty ploughboy, though there are strong similarities. This version was collected by Ralph Vaughan Williams. \"Boys of Bedlam\", a variant of \"Tom o' Bedlam\", is told from the perspective of a member of a lunatic asylum. Carthy and Prior open the song by singing into the back of banjos, producing a muffled effect. The band uses the earliest printed version of the song, from \"Wit and Mirth, or Pills to Purge Melancholy\" by Thomas d'Urfey.\n\n\"Melody Maker\" made this its folk album of the year. Music journalist Colin Irwin describes it in his book \"In Search of Albion\" as one of his favourite folk-rock albums. It reached number 45 in the UK album charts, originally on B & C Records; before the year was out the rights were acquired by Mooncrest Records, which re-released it the same year with different cover art. It was issued in the US at the same time on Big Tree Records, when the small label was distributed by Ampex. It sold poorly and was deleted quite soon after release. Remaining copies were bought up by a couple of the 'cut-out' distributors and by that time, the band had signed with Chrysalis and the cut-out original sold very well. When stock ran out, poor-quality bootleg copies started to turn up in huge quantities.\n\nMusically, this was their most electric, dense recording, with loud guitars and strong looping bass lines and no drums. In 2006, Castle Music re-issued the album as a double CD with numerous additional tracks, taken from radio and TV appearances.\n\n\"Rave On!\" is an a cappella version of a Buddy Holly song. It was meant as a prank to mock Ashley Hutchings' solemnity, but he ended up liking it. In 2006, Castle Music re-issued the album with the 10 original tracks and 25 bonus tracks, on two CDs. The bonus tracks were all poorly recorded tapes of live BBC radio broadcasts (three from TV). Only six of these were tracks not already available in good studio versions, although the arrangements are different on some. The song \"I Was a Young Man\" is very different from the version on \"Battle of the Field\" by the Albion Country Band. The song \"Gallant Poacher\" was also on that album. Steeleye Span's bonus track version is very similar. \"College Grove/Silver Spear\" is a pair of jigs by Peter Knight. \"Lay Down Your Weary Tune\" is a Bob Dylan song, sung a cappella. \"Farther Along\" is a traditional gospel-blues song, also sung a cappella. \"Let's Dance\" is the well-known hit by Chris Montez. \"Bring 'Em Down/A Hundred Years Ago\" is a pair of sea shanties. \"Hitler's Downfall\" is actually the instrumental \"Bryan O'Lynn\", already available in a studio recording.\n\n\nSandy Roberton - producer\n\nOriginal album released by B&C Records CAS 1029 in 1971 and re-issued by Mooncrest Records CREST 8 in 1974:\n\nAdditional track on Mooncrest re-issue CREST 005 (vinyl) and CRESTCD 005 (CD) in 1991:\n\nAdditional tracks on the Castle Music re-issue CMQDD 1253 in 2006:\n\n\"BBC \"Top Gear\" session rec. June 23, 1970\"\n\"BBC \"Stuart Henry Show\" session July 23, 1970\"\n\nAdditional tracks on the Castle Music re-issue CMQDD 1253 bonus CD in 2006:\n\n\"BBC \"Folk on 1\" session October 17, 1970\"\n\"BBC \"Stuart Henry Show\" session February 4, 1971\"\n\"BBC \"Top Gear\" session March 27, 1971\"\n\"BBC TV (date unknown)\"\n"}
{"id": "1948256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948256", "title": "Murine typhus", "text": "Murine typhus\n\nMurine typhus is a form of typhus transmitted by fleas (\"Xenopsylla cheopis\"), usually on rats. (This is in contrast to epidemic typhus, which is usually transmitted by lice.) Murine typhus is an under-recognized entity, as it is often confused with viral illnesses. Most people who are infected do not realize that they have been bitten by fleas.\n\nSymptoms of endemic typhus include headache, fever, muscle pain, joint pain, nausea and vomiting. 40–50% of patients will develop a discrete rash six days after the onset of signs. Up to 45% will develop neurological signs such as confusion, stupor, seizures or imbalance.\n\nSymptoms may resemble those of measles, rubella, or possibly Rocky Mountain spotted fever. These symptoms are likely caused by a vasculitis caused by the rickettsia.\n\nIt is caused by the bacterium \"Rickettsia typhi\", and is transmitted by the fleas that infest rats. While rat fleas are the most common vectors, cat fleas and mouse fleas are less common modes of transmission. These fleas are not affected by the infection. Human infection occurs because of flea-fecal contamination of the bites on human skin. Rats, cats, opossums maintain the rickettsia colonization by providing it with a host for its entire life cycle. Rats can develop the infection, and help spread the infection to other fleas that infect them, and help multiply the number of infected fleas that can then infect humans. \n\nLess often, endemic typhus is caused by \"Rickettsia felis\" and transmitted by fleas carried by cats or opossums. \n\nIn the United States of America, murine typhus is found most commonly in southern California, Texas and Hawaii. In some studies, up to 13% of children were found to have serological evidence of infection.\n, early diagnosis continued to be based on clinical suspicion, and treatment of the disease is indicated even before laboratory results confirm its presence. Because of the lag between the onset of infection and the appearance of antibodies in a blood test, serologic tests are merely confirmatory and retrospective. Weil-Felix agglutination reactions are not sensitive to the disease. Indirect fluorescence antibody assays that are specific to \"R. typhi\" antigens are the recommended route for detection and diagnosis: diagnostic titers are present in half of all cases within the first week of infection and in nearly all cases by day-15. The sharing of antigens by rickettsiae means routine serologic evaluation will not distinguish between murine typhus and epidemic typhus. Bacterial cultures are rarely performed because although they are highly accurate for diagnosis, the biohazard risk of generating them is often considered too high.\n\nThe disease can be fatal if left untreated, but endemic typhus is highly treatable with antibiotics. Most people recover fully, but death may occur in the elderly, severely disabled or patients with a depressed immune system. The most effective antibiotics include tetracycline and chloramphenicol. In United States, CDC recommends solely doxycycline.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948257", "title": "Pataleshwar", "text": "Pataleshwar\n\nThe Pataleshwar Cave Temple (\"also called Panchaleshvara or Bamburde\") is a rock-cut cave temple, carved out in the 8th century in the Rashtrakuta period. It is located in what is now Pune, in the state of Maharashtra, India. It was originally situated outside the town, but the city limits have expanded so that it is now located on the downtown Jangali Maharaj Road. It has been declared as a protected monument by the government. \n\nThe temple, made of basalt rock, is dedicated to the Hindu god Shiva. The sanctum - a cube-shaped room about 3–4 metres on each side - houses a linga - the symbol of Shiva and there are two smaller cells on each side. In front of the cave is a circular Nandi mandapa, its umbrella shaped canopy supported by massive square pillars. This mandapa is one of the peculiar structures of Pataleshwar. The cave is located at a lower level than the present level of the road and the cave complex. There is an exquisitely carved circular Nandi shrine in the huge courtyard of the cave. The main cave is rectangular on plan and has a pillared porch. There are three sanctums in the cave temple and the central one houses the Shivalinga. There is a circumambulation path provided in the cave where one can see the unfinished part of the cave temple. It appears that after finishing the front and the sanctum the cave was left incomplete due to some reasons, one of which could be the faults in the rock. However the walls in the main cave have some outlines drawn suggesting the sculptures depicting stories from Indian mythology, especially involving Shiva.\n\nThe huge complex of the cave has been converted into a garden and there are a few architectural members stored in it probably belonging to some old temple nearby. As this is the oldest monument in Pune, which is over 1300 years old, the Pune office of the Archaeological Survey of India is located in the adjacent property. \n\nThe temple was left incomplete, possibly because of a fault line found at the back of the sanctum sanctorum, which made the further sculpting unsafe, or political upheaval resulting in loss of patronage. Still in use, the linga is anointed with ghee and yogurt. A brass temple bell hangs outside the basalt entryway.\n"}
{"id": "1948258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948258", "title": "Ten Man Mop, or Mr. Reservoir Butler Rides Again", "text": "Ten Man Mop, or Mr. Reservoir Butler Rides Again\n\nTen Man Mop or Mr. Reservoir Butler Rides Again is the third album by Steeleye Span, recorded in September 1971. It was issued on the short-lived Pegasus label, and then the Mooncrest label, also in 1971 (Crest 9). It was not initially issued in the US until Chrysalis acquired the group's first three albums in 1975, when it reissued all three in the UK and US. Tracks like \"Four Nights Drunk\", \"Marrowbones\", and \"Wee Weaver\" are essentially pure folk. It was the last album to feature founding member Ashley Hutchings; he left the band in November 1971, just after its completion, partly because he felt that the album had moved too far toward Irish music and away from English music. The band was also considering touring America, and Hutchings was reluctant to make the trip.\n\nThe album begins with an adaptation of the Christmas carol \"Gower Wassail\". \"When I was on Horseback\" is one of the few folk songs to have an alternative existence as a blues song, sometimes known as \"Six White Horses\". It is also an Irish variant of a tune that inspired \"Streets of Laredo\" and \"St. James Infirmary Blues\". The last song, \"Skewball\", employs an effective counterpoint between a banjo and an electric guitar.\n\nThe album was notable for having a textured \"gatefold\" sleeve and inner pages on its original release. This was paid for by the band but cost more to print than the album generated in profits, meaning the band lost money on each album sold. It appeared as such on the Pegasus and Mooncrest labels. None of the re-releases have included the original number of pages of liner notes.\n\nThe album's curious title and subtitle require some explanation. A 'mop' or 'mop fair' is a late medieval term for a job fair, where labourers come looking for work. (The song \"Copshawholme Fair\", from the band's first album \"Hark! The Village Wait\", is about such a fair.) The conceit was that the band was out of work and job-hunting. A 'ten man mop' would be a very poor show, since there would be few potential employees to choose from. The even more curious subtitle is a reference to Reservoir Butler, who had originally performed one of the songs covered on the album. The band was so struck by his unusual name that they decided it needed to be saved from obscurity.\n\nThe photograph on the sleeve was taken by John Benjamin Stone in about 1900. Entitled \"'Sippers' and 'Topers'\", it is of two villagers at the Bidford Mop, an annual fair held at Michaelmas in the village of Bidford-on-Avon, Warwickshire. The village has a centuries-old reputation for heavy drinking.\n\nWhen Castle Music re-released \"Ten Man Mop...\" it added a substantial number of bonus tracks. On the first disc, these included \"General Taylor\" and three versions of the Buddy Holly song \"Rave On!\". A second disc was included that contained a recording from \"Radio One in Concert with John Peel\", dated 26/9/71 (following British dating conventions). The quality of the recording was quite variable, but the bonus tracks include a number of pieces not released on any album.\n\n\nSandy Roberton - producer\n\nOriginal album released by Pegasus Records PEG 9 in 1971. Re-issued by Mooncrest Records CREST 9 in 1974, CREST 009 (vinyl) in 1991 and CRESTCD 009 (CD) in 1991:\n\nAdditional tracks on the Castle Music re-issue CMQDD 1252 in 2006:\n\nAdditional tracks on the Castle Music re-issue CMQDD 1252 bonus CD in 2006:\n\n\"BBC \"Peel's Sunday Concert\" 15 September 1971\"\n"}
{"id": "1948262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948262", "title": "John Paston", "text": "John Paston\n\nJohn Paston may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948263", "title": "Japanese Surrendered Personnel", "text": "Japanese Surrendered Personnel\n\nJapanese Surrendered Personnel (JSP) is a designation for captive Japanese soldiers (similar to Disarmed Enemy Forces and Surrendered Enemy Personnel). It was used in particular by British Forces referring to Japanese forces in Asia after the end of World War II.\n\nThe concept of \"Japanese Surrendered Personnel\" was developed by the Japanese Government, and proposed to the Allies at the conclusion of World War II. The Japanese suggested this concept as the military's field service code and strong social norms prohibited military personnel, including senior officers, from being taken prisoner. The Allies accepted this proposal, as it was also advantageous to them even though the status lacked a legal basis. JSP were not subject to the Prisoner of War Convention, and had no legal protections.\n\nThe JSP were until at least 1947 used for labor purposes, such as road maintenance, recovering corpses for reburial, cleaning, preparing farmland etc. Early tasks also included repairing airfields damaged by Allied bombing during the war and maintaining law and order until the arrival of the British forces of occupation.\nAfter the war the U.K. quickly worked to regain control of its colonial empire territories, and also worked to ensure that the Dutch and French could regain control of their colonial empires. Due to British manpower shortages in the combat against the local resistance fighters who sought national independence, JSP were often pressed into combat service alongside British occupation troops.\nLouis Mountbatten took on 35,000 Japanese troops into his command in Indonesia. Retaining their wartime organisation and led by Japanese officers they had to fight alongside the British, with one Japanese even being recommended for the Distinguished Service Order as early as November 1945. The recommendation was done by General Philip Christison for Japanese battalion commander Major Kido. Other examples of action include the Japanese company led by Captain Yamada that had to fight their way into Magelang to assist the British; Japanese Kempeitai (military police) used to guard camps in Buitenzorg, Japanese artillery units used for offensives in Bandung, and the Bandoeng garrison that was reinforced by 1,500 armed Japanese. Japanese saw action in Semarang, Ambarawa, Magelang.\nBeing aware of the sensitivity and hypocrisy of using Japanese troops for the purpose of by force restoring the European colonial Empires against the wishes of the people, the Americans and British worked successfully to conceal the extent of Japanese involvement in this post-war activity.\n\"The retention of JSP by the British forces was carried out in spite of the repeated questioning of its validity by the American side.\" However, at the same time that they questioned the British use of the JSP designation, the US made use of up to 80,000 JSP in the Philippines for the duration of 1946, at one time even lowering the area priority for shipping and rerouting shipping to the British South East Asia Command to slow the rate of repatriation.\n\nSeveral memoirs and other works relevant to the issue have been published. The most famous in Japan, which has been translated into English, is that by Aida Yuji, \"Prisoner of the British. A Japanese Soldier’s Experience in Burma\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1948269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948269", "title": "Hereroland", "text": "Hereroland\n\nHereroland was a bantustan in South West Africa (present day Namibia), intended by the apartheid government to be a self-governing homeland for the Herero people. It was set up in 1968 and self-government was granted two years later.\n\nHereroland, like other homelands in South West Africa, was abolished in May 1989 at the start of the transition to independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948271", "title": "Sherry Sylvester", "text": "Sherry Sylvester\n\nSherry Sylvester is a political worker and journalist. She was the communications director for Doug Forrester's 2005 campaign for Governor of New Jersey.\n\nShe served briefly as the communications director for the Republican Party of Texas after heading Texas Media Watch, a nonpartisan project of the Lone Star Foundation, that reported on bias in the Texas press.\n\nShe graduated from Oklahoma State University.\nIn 2005, Sylvester was named Alumna of the Year by the Graduate School of Political Management, now at George Washington University.\n\nSylvester is the Senior Advisor to Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick. Sylvester formerly was a San Antonio-based political consultant, whose clients include Texans for Lawsuit Reform . \n\nAs a journalist, Sylvester won awards in both New Jersey and Texas. She was the political writer at the San Antonio Express-News, stepping down in early 2003. \nSylvester was the Chief Political Writer for the \"Trentonian\" in Trenton, New Jersey for almost a decade. Her political commentary appeared there and in several Gannett-owned state newspapers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948276", "title": "Tetramethylsilane", "text": "Tetramethylsilane\n\nTetramethylsilane (abbreviated as TMS) is the organosilicon compound with the formula Si(CH). It is the simplest tetraorganosilane. Like all silanes, the TMS framework is tetrahedral. TMS is a building block in organometallic chemistry but also finds use in diverse niche applications.\n\nTMS is a by-product of the production of methyl chlorosilanes, SiCl(CH), via the direct process of reacting methyl chloride with silicon. The more useful products of this reaction are those for \"x\" = 1 (trimethylsilyl chloride), 2 (dimethyldichlorosilane), and 3 (methyltrichlorosilane).\n\nTMS undergoes deprotonation upon treatment with butyllithium to give (HC)SiCHLi. The latter, trimethylsilylmethyl lithium, is a relatively common alkylating agent.\n\nIn chemical vapor deposition, TMS is the precursor to silicon dioxide or silicon carbide, depending on the deposition conditions.\n\nTetramethylsilane is the accepted internal standard for calibrating chemical shift for H, C and Si NMR spectroscopy in organic solvents (where TMS is soluble). In water, where it is not soluble, sodium salts of DSS, 2,2-dimethyl-2-silapentane-5-sulfonate, are used instead. Because of its high volatility, TMS can easily be evaporated, which is convenient for recovery of samples analyzed by NMR spectroscopy.\n\nBecause all twelve hydrogen atoms in a tetramethylsilane molecule are equivalent, its H NMR spectrum consists of a singlet.\nThe chemical shift of this singlet is assigned as \"δ\" 0, and all other chemical shifts are determined relative to it. The majority of compounds studied by H NMR spectroscopy absorb downfield of the TMS signal, thus there is usually no interference between the standard and the sample. Similarly, all four carbon atoms in a tetramethylsilane molecule are equivalent.\nIn a fully decoupled C NMR spectrum, the carbon in the tetramethylsilane appears as a singlet, allowing for easy identification. The chemical shift of this singlet is also set to be \"δ\" 0 in the C spectrum, and all other chemical shifts are determined relative to it.\n\nCommercial NMR solvents often are supplied without TMS. H NMR spectra can be calibrated against residual protio-solvent (e.g. the remaining 0.1% or so of undeuterated chloroform in commercial CDCl). As deuterium is not observed in H NMR, the residual protio-solvent signals can be observed clearly. For C NMR work, spectra are usually calibrated against the deuterated solvent peak. For example, deuterated chloroform shows a triplet of equal height at \"δ\" 77.0.\n\nThe triplet is explained by applying the 2\"nI\" + 1 rule; for the case of deuterium, \"I\" = 1. Tables and charts of chemical shifts for various types of NMR spectroscopy are often provided by vendors of NMR solvents. Work has also been done to prepare comprehensive tables of chemical shifts of solvents and impurities.\n"}
{"id": "1948278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948278", "title": "Artificial Joy Club", "text": "Artificial Joy Club\n\nArtificial Joy Club, at first known as Sal's Birdland was a Canadian alternative rock band active in the 1990s. The group recorded three albums and one hit single.\n\nThe group formed in 1993 when Louise Reny and Leslie Howe, formerly of the pop group One to One, joined with guitarist Michael Goyette, bassist Tim Dupont and drummer Andrew Lamarche. Initially taking the name Sal's Birdland (\"Sal\" was Reny's stage name in the band), the group released its debut album, \"So Very Happy\", in 1994.\n\nIn 1995, the group signed an international deal with Warner Bros. Records' Discovery imprint, which reworked \"So Very Happy\" with production assistance from Michael James and released \"Nude Photos Inside\" to the North American market.\n\nThe label rejected their planned followup, and the band consequently left Warner and signed to Interscope Records, changing their name to Artificial Joy Club at the same time. Goyette, Dupont and Lamarche had previously used the name Artificial Joy Club for a short-lived side project with Ottawa singer Doug Wilson.\n\nThey had a No. 17 \"Billboard\" Modern Rock Tracks hit in 1997 with \"Sick and Beautiful\", opened the mainstage at Buzzfest '97, and appeared on the second stage bill at the Lollapalooza festival. That song was also featured on the soundtrack for the 1998 comedy-thriller film \"Homegrown\".\n\nThe band broke up in 1999.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948283", "title": "Malayan campaign", "text": "Malayan campaign\n\nThe Malayan campaign was a military campaign fought by Allied and Axis forces in Malaya, from 8 December 1941 – 31 January 1942 during the Second World War. It was dominated by land battles between British Commonwealth army units, and the Imperial Japanese Army with minor skirmishes at the beginning of the campaign between British Commonwealth and Royal Thai Armed Forces. The Japanese had air and naval supremacy from the opening days of the campaign. For the British, Indian, Australian and Malayan forces defending the colony, the campaign was a total disaster.\n\nThe operation is notable for the Japanese use of bicycle infantry, which allowed troops to carry more equipment and swiftly move through thick jungle terrain. Royal Engineers, equipped with demolition charges, destroyed over a hundred bridges during the retreat, yet this did little to delay the Japanese. By the time the Japanese had captured Singapore, they had suffered 9,657 casualties; Allied losses totaled 145,703, including 15,703 casualties and 130,000 captured.\n\nBy 1941 the Japanese had been engaged for four years in trying to subjugate China. They were heavily reliant on imported materials for their military forces, particularly oil from the United States. From 1940 to 1941, the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands imposed embargoes on supplying oil and war materials to Japan. The object of the embargoes was to assist the Chinese and encourage the Japanese to halt military action in China. The Japanese considered that pulling out of China would result in a loss of face and decided instead to take military action against US, British and Dutch territories in South East Asia. The Japanese forces for the invasion were assembled in 1941 on Hainan Island and in French Indochina. This troop build-up was noticed by the Allies and, when asked, the Japanese advised that it related to its operations in China.\n\nWhen the Japanese invaded, they had over 200 tanks, consisting of the Type 95 \"Ha-Go\", Type 97 \"Chi-Ha\", Type 89 \"I-Go\" and Type 97 \"Te-Ke\". In addition, they had over 500 combat aircraft available. Commonwealth troops were equipped with the Lanchester 6x4 Armoured Car, Marmon-Herrington Armoured Car, Universal Carrier and only 23 obsolete Mk VIB light tanks (in the 100th Light Tank Squadron of the Indian Army), none of which were sufficiently armed for armoured warfare. They had just over 250 combat aircraft, but half of these were destroyed inside the first few days of combat.\n\nBetween the wars, the British military strategy in the Far East was undermined by a lack of attention and funding. In 1937, Major-General William Dobbie, General Officer Commanding (GOC) Malaya (1935–39), looked at Malaya's defences and reported that during the monsoon season, from October to March, landings could be made by an enemy on the east coast and bases could be established in Siam (Thailand). He predicted that landings could be made at Songkhla and Pattani in Siam, and Kota Bharu in Malaya. He recommended large reinforcements to be sent immediately. His predictions turned out to be correct, but his recommendations were ignored. The British government's plans relied primarily on the stationing of a strong fleet at the Singapore Naval Base in the event of any enemy hostility, in order to defend both Britain's Far Eastern possessions and the route to Australia. A strong naval presence was also thought to act as a deterrent against possible aggressors.\nBy 1940, however, the army commander in Malaya, Lieutenant-General Lionel Bond, conceded that a successful defence of Singapore demanded the defence of the whole peninsula, and that the naval base alone would not be sufficient to deter a Japanese invasion.<ref name=\"Bayly/Harper, p. 107\">Bayly/Harper, p. 107</ref> Military planners concluded that the desired Malayan air force strength would be 300–500 aircraft, but this was never reached because of the higher priorities in the allocation of men and material for Britain and the Middle East.\n\nThe defence strategy for Malaya rested on two basic assumptions: first, that there would be sufficient early warning of an attack to allow for reinforcement of British troops, and second, that American help was at hand in case of attack. By late 1941, after Lieutenant-General Arthur E. Percival had taken over as GOC Malaya, it became clear that neither of these assumptions had any real substance. In addition, Churchill and Roosevelt had agreed that in the event of war breaking out in South East Asia, priority would be given to finishing the war in Europe. The east, until that time, would be a secondary priority. Containment was considered the primary strategy in the east.\n\nPlanning for this offensive was undertaken by the Japanese Military Affairs Bureau's Unit 82 based in Taiwan. Intelligence on Malaya was gathered through a network of agents which included Japanese embassy staff; disaffected Malayans (particularly members of the Japanese-established \"Tortoise Society\"); and Japanese, Korean, and Taiwanese business people and tourists. Japanese spies, which included a British intelligence officer, Captain Patrick Stanley Vaughan Heenan, also provided intelligence and assistance.\n\nPrior to hostilities Japanese intelligence officers like Iwaichi Fujiwara had established covert intelligence offices (or \"Kikans\") that linked up with the Malay and Indian pro-independence organisations such as Kesatuan Melayu Muda in Malaya Indian Independence League. The Japanese gave these movements financial support in return for their members providing intelligence and later assistance in determining Allied troop movements, strengths, and dispositions prior to the invasion.\n\nThrough the operation of these networks prior to the invasion the Japanese knew where the Commonwealth forces were based and their unit strengths, had good maps of Malaya, and had local guides available to provide them with directions.\n\nIn November 1941 the British became aware of the large scale buildup of Japanese troops in French Indo-China. Thailand was seen to be under threat from this build-up as well as Malaya. British strategists had foreseen the possibility of Thailand's Kra isthmus being used by the Japanese to invade Malaya. To counteract this potential threat, plans for a pre-emptive invasion of southern Thailand, named Operation Matador, had been drawn up. By the time the invasion became highly likely the British decided not to use them for political reasons.\n\nThe Malayan campaign began when the 25th Army, under the command of Lieutenant General Tomoyuki Yamashita, invaded Malaya on 8 December 1941. Japanese troops launched an amphibious assault on the northern coast of Malaya at Kota Bharu and started advancing down the eastern coast of Malaya. Japanese forces also landed at Pattani and Songkhla in Thailand, then moved south across the Thailand-Malayan border to attack the western portion of Malaya.\n\nFrench Indochina was controlled by Vichy France, which collaborated with the Axis. The French authorities there had submitted to Japanese occupation and allowed Japan to use the territory's ports as naval bases, build air bases, and mass forces there for the invasion. Japan also coerced Thailand into cooperating with the invasion, though Thai troops resisted the landings in Thai territory for eight hours.\n\nAt 04:00, 17 JNAF bombers attacked Singapore, the first ever air raid on the colony. It became evident to the British that Japanese bombers based in Indochina were now in range of Singapore.\nThe Japanese were initially resisted by III Corps of the Indian Army and several British Army battalions. The Japanese quickly isolated individual Indian units defending the coastline, before concentrating their forces to surround the defenders and force their surrender. The Japanese forces held a slight advantage in numbers on the ground in northern Malaya, and were significantly superior in close air support, armour, co-ordination, tactics, and experience, with the Japanese units having fought in China. The Allies had no tanks, which had put them at a severe disadvantage. The Japanese also used bicycle infantry and light tanks, which allowed swift movement of their forces overland through terrain covered with thick tropical rainforest, albeit criss-crossed by native paths. Although the Japanese had not brought bicycles with them (in order to speed the disembarkation process), they knew from their intelligence that suitable machines were plentiful in Malaya and quickly confiscated what they needed from civilians and retailers.\n\nA replacement for Operation Matador, named Operation Krohcol, was implemented on 8 December, but the Indian troops were easily defeated by the Royal Thai Police and the Japanese 5th Division which had already landed in Pattani Province, Thailand. Force Z of the Royal Navy (battleship , battlecruiser , and four destroyers, under the command of Admiral Tom Phillips) had arrived right before the outbreak of hostilities. But the powerful Japanese air forces in Indochina sank both capital ships on 10 December, leaving the east coast of Malaya exposed and allowing the Japanese to continue their landings.\n\nAs a lower-priority theatre, the Allies had comparatively few modern aircraft to challenge the Japanese. In addition the Allies did not consider Japanese aircraft a significant threat. In 1941 the Allies assumed that Japan would only have a few hundred poor quality outdated aircraft. The respected \"Janes All the World's Aircraft\" for 1941 indicated that the Japanese only had a cluster of dated foreign and indigenous aircraft. Japanese pilots were also underrated, considered unlikely to make particularly good pilots.\n\nPrior to the invasion on 8 December there were 75 Allied aircraft stationed in northern Malaya and 83 in Singapore. The only fighter squadron in northern Malaya was No 21 Squadron RAAF that was equipped with 12 Brewster Buffalos. The Japanese had over 459 aircraft available.\n\nThe Japanese Navy's 22nd Air Flotilla (22nd Kōkū-Sentai) with 110 aircraft and commanded by Vice Admiral Matsunaga Sadaichi operating out of three air bases near Saigon took part in the initial attacks on Malaya.\n\nThe 22nd Air Flotilla included the 22nd (Genzan), Mihoro, and Kanoya Air Groups (or Kōkūtai). They were equipped with 33 Type 96 Mitsubishi G3M1 \"Nell\" bombers. The Air Flotilla also had 25 Type 96 Mitsubishi A5M4 \"Claude\" fighters available. The Genzen Air Group was a key participant in the sinking of the British capital ships and off the coast of Malaya on 10 December 1941, losing one aircraft and its crew during the battle. On 22 January 1942, bombers from the Genzan Air Group attacked Kallang Airport in Singapore, and subsequently provided air support for Japanese offensives in Malaya including the landings at Endau.\n\nThe Japanese 3rd and three of the 5th Air Corps took part in the Malaya Campaign. In total there were 354 IJAAS first line aircraft involved together with the 110 IJNAS aircraft. The Army units were variously equipped with fighters: Nakajima Ki-27 \"Nate\", Nakajima Ki-43 \"Oscar\", Mitsubishi Ki-51 \"Sonia\"; bombers: Kawasaki Ki-48 \"Lily\", Mitsubishi Ki-21 \"Sally\", Mitsubishi Ki-30 \"Ann\"; and reconnaissance: Mitsubishi Ki-15 \"Babs\", Mitsubishi Ki-46 \"Dinah\".\n\nMost Japanese pilots of the IJAAS units and at least a quarter of the IJNAS pilots had combat experience against the Chinese and Russians. They were all very well trained.\n\nPrior to the commencement of hostilities the Allies in Malaya and Singapore had four fighter squadrons: 21 and 453 RAAF, 243 RAF, and 488 RNZAF. They were equipped with the Brewster Buffalo B-399E, a plane that aviation historian Dan Ford characterized as pathetic. Its engine had fuel starvation problems and poor supercharger performance at higher altitudes. Maneuverability was poor and the engine tended to overheat in the tropical climate, spraying oil over the windscreen. In service, some effort was made to improve performance by removing the armour plate, armoured windshields, radios, gun camera, and all other unnecessary equipment, and by replacing the .50 in (12.7 mm) machine guns with .303 in (7.7 mm) machine guns. The fuselage tanks were filled with a minimum of fuel and run on high-octane aviation petrol where available.\n\nThe remaining offensive aircraft consisted of four RAF squadrons of Bristol Blenheim I and IV light bombers (27, 34, 60, 62 Squadrons), two RAAF squadrons (1 and 8) of Lockheed Hudsons, and two RAF squadrons of Vickers Vildebeest torpedo bombers (36 and 100). The Vildebeests were considered obsolete for the European theatre of operations. No 36 Squadron had some Fairey Albacore bi-planes. There were also two PBY Catalina flying boats of No. 205 Squadron RAF and three Catalinas from the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army Air Force at Singapore.\n\nThe squadrons were beset by numerous problems including inadequate spare parts and a lack of support staff, airfields that were difficult to defend against air attack with no early warning of impending attacks, a lack of a clear and coherent command structure, a Japanese spy in the Army air liaison staff (Heenan), and antagonism between RAF and RAAF squadrons and personnel. The Japanese through their network of informants knew the strength and disposition of Allied aircraft before they invaded.\n\nMany of the pilots lacked adequate training and experience. For example, a total of 20 of the original 169 Buffalos were lost in training accidents during 1941. Those fighter pilots with experience had been trained in methods that were very effective against German and Italian fighters but suicide against the acrobatic Japanese Nakajima Ki-43 \"Oscar\" and Mitsubishi A6M \"Zero\". A counter tactic of avoiding dog fights with a \"slash and run\" attack was developed by Lieutenant-General Claire Lee Chennault of the Flying Tigers but was too late for the Allied pilots serving in this campaign.\nTwo days before the attack on Malaya, No 1 Squadron [RAAF] Hudsons spotted the Japanese invasion fleet but, given uncertainty about the ships' destination and instructions to avoid offensive operations until attacks were made against friendly territory, Air Chief Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham did not allow the convoy to be bombed.\n\nOn the first day, the focus of the Japanese air assault was on the Allied air bases. Mitsubishi Ki-21 \"Sally\"s from the 7th Hikodan bombed the airfields at Alor Star, Sungai Petani, and Butterworth. A total of 60 Allied aircraft were lost on the first day, primarily on the ground. Those Allied fighters that did manage to engage the Japanese performed adequately against the Nakajima Ki-27 \"Nate\". However, the appearance of ever greater numbers of Japanese fighters, including markedly superior types such as the Nakajima Ki-43 \"Oscar\" soon overwhelmed the Buffalo pilots, both in the air and on the ground.\n\nWhile contesting the Japanese landings on Malaya, Hudsons from No. 1 Squadron RAAF based at Kota Bharu became the first aircraft to make an attack in the Pacific War, sinking Japanese transport ship \"Awazisan Maru\", while also damaging \"Ayatosan Maru\" and \"Sakura Maru\" off the coast of Kota Bharu, for the loss of two Hudsons, at 0118h local time (an hour before the attack on Pearl Harbor). The Squadron was transferred to Kuantan the following day.\n\nBy 9 December, Japanese fighters were operating out of Singora and Patani, Thailand, and Kota Bharu airfield was in Japanese hands. The Allies tried to attack Singora airfield. The bombers were intercepted on take-off by a Japanese raid which disabled or shot down all but one. The sole surviving bomber, a Bristol Blenheim flown by Arthur Scarf, did manage to bomb Singora. No 62 squadron had been moved from Alor Star to Butterworth, and on 10 December it was moved to Taiping.\n\nOn 10 December, No 21 Squadron RAAF was withdrawn from Sungai Petani to Ipoh, where it was joined on 13 December by No 453 Squadron RAAF. No 453 Squadron had been sent to protect Force Z on 10 December, but arrived after the warships were sinking. On 15 December both Squadrons were pulled back to Kuala Lumpur, receiving replacement aircraft for those shot down or destroyed. Within the first week of the campaign the Japanese had established air superiority. On 19 December the bombers were moved to Singapore, with No 62 Squadron being re-equipped with Hudsons.\n\nOne pilot—Sergeant Malcolm Neville Read of No. 453 Squadron RAAF—sacrificed himself by ramming his Buffalo into an Oscar of 64th \"Sentai\" over Kuala Lumpur on 22 December.\n\nContinued Japanese dominance eventually forced both Squadrons back to Singapore on 24 December, where they were merged until more replacement aircraft could be obtained. No 64 Squadron had run out of aircraft and its surviving ground-crew and airmen were shipped to Burma. RAAF No 1 and No 8 squadrons were amalgamated due to aircraft losses. This left the Allied ground troops and shipping completely open to air attack and further weakened the defensive position. The Genzan Air Group sank \"Prince of Wales\" and \"Repulse\" on 10 December, which also established Japanese naval supremacy. In comparison, the Japanese army enjoyed close air support from the start of the campaign, and sought to capture bases for their air support to operate from.\n\nOn 25 December, the Second division of Squadron 5, Royal Netherlands East Indies Army Air Force was deployed to Singapore, contributing to the Allied cause before being recalled to Java on 18 January. Several Dutch pilots—including Jacob van Helsdingen and August Deibel—responded to a number of air raids over Singapore while stationed at Kallang Airport. They claimed a total of six aircraft, particularly the Nakajima Ki-27 Nate, which fared poorly in Malaya.\n\nOn 3 January 1942, 51 disassembled Hurricane Mk IIBs arrived in Singapore along with 24 pilots (many of whom were veterans of the Battle of Britain) who had been transferred to there with the intention of forming the nucleus of five squadrons. The 151st Maintenance unit assembled the 51 Hurricanes within two days and of these, 21 were ready for operational service within three days. The Hurricanes were fitted with bulky 'Vokes' dust filters under the nose and were armed with 12, rather than eight, machine guns. The additional weight and drag made them slow to climb and unwieldy to maneuver at altitude, although they were more effective bomber killers.\n\nThe recently arrived pilots were formed into 232 Squadron. In addition, 488 (NZ) Squadron, a Buffalo squadron, converted to Hurricanes. On 18 January, the two squadrons formed the basis of 226 Group. The following day 453 squadron provided an escort of eight aircraft for five Wirraways and four NEI Glenn Martin bombers, attacking Japanese troops on the Maur River. All the Martins and one of the Wirraways were lost.\n\nNo 243 Squadron RAF, equipped with Buffalo fighters, was disbanded on 21 January and 232 Squadron became operational on 22 January, the same day as the Genzan Air Group attacked Kallang Airport. 232 Squadron thus had the first losses and victories for the Hurricane in Southeast Asia that day. Most of the bombers were moved to Sumatra midway through January.\n\nAircraft from 36, 62, and 100 Squadrons unsuccessfully attacked the Japanese invasion fleet at Endau on 26 January, suffering heavy losses. The surviving aircraft were evacuated to Sumatra on 31 January.\n\nIn mid-January, the three Sentai of the 5th Air Corps returned to Thailand to participate in the Burma Campaign and the 3rd Air Corps turned its attention to the Netherlands East Indies. In the end, more than 60 Brewster aircraft were shot down in combat, 40 destroyed on the ground, and approximately 20 more destroyed in accidents. Only about 20 Buffalos survived to reach India or the Dutch East Indies. The last airworthy Buffalo in Singapore flew out on 10 February, five days before the island fell. The RAAF and RNZAF fighter squadrons left for Sumatra and Java at the beginning of February.\n\nIt is not entirely clear how many Japanese aircraft the Buffalo squadrons shot down, although RAAF pilots alone managed to shoot down at least 20. Eighty were claimed in total, a ratio of kills to losses of just 1.3 to 1. Additionally, most of the Japanese aircraft shot down by the Buffalos were bombers. The Hawker Hurricane, which fought in Singapore alongside the Buffalo from 20 January, also suffered severe losses from ground attack; most were destroyed.\n\nThe defeat of Allied troops at the Battle of Jitra by Japanese forces, supported by tanks moving south from Thailand on 11 December 1941 and the rapid advance of the Japanese inland from their Kota Bharu beachhead on the north-east coast of Malaya overwhelmed the northern defences. Without any real naval presence, the British were unable to challenge Japanese naval operations off the Malayan coast, which proved invaluable to the invaders. With virtually no remaining Allied planes, the Japanese also had mastery of the skies, leaving the Allied ground troops and civilian population exposed to air attack.\n\nThe Malayan island of Penang was bombed daily by the Japanese from 8 December and abandoned on 17 December. Arms, boats, supplies and a working radio station were left in haste to the Japanese. The evacuation of Europeans from Penang, with local inhabitants being left to the mercy of the Japanese, caused much embarrassment for the British and alienated them from the local population. Historians judge that \"the moral collapse of British rule in Southeast Asia came not at Singapore, but at Penang\". However, many who were present during the evacuation did not experience it as a scramble. It was a response to an order from British High Command which had come to the conclusion that Penang should be abandoned as it had no tactical or strategic value in the rapidly changing military scheme of things at that time.\n\nOn 23 December, Major-General David Murray-Lyon of the Indian 11th Infantry Division was removed from command to little effect. By the end of the first week in January, the entire northern region of Malaya had been lost to the Japanese. At the same time, Thailand officially signed a Treaty of Friendship with Imperial Japan, which completed the formation of their loose military alliance. Thailand was then allowed by the Japanese to resume sovereignty over several sultanates in northern Malaya, thus consolidating their occupation. It did not take long for the Japanese army's next objective, the city of Kuala Lumpur, to fall. The Japanese entered and occupied the city unopposed on 11 January 1942. Singapore Island was now less than away for the invading Japanese army.\n\nThe 11th Indian Division managed to delay the Japanese advance at Kampar for a few days, in which the Japanese suffered severe casualties in terrain that did not allow them to use their tanks or their air superiority to defeat the British. The 11th Indian Division was forced to retreat when the Japanese landed troops by sea south of the Kampar position. The British retreated to prepared positions at Slim River.\n\nAt the Battle of Slim River, in which two Indian brigades were practically annihilated, the Japanese used surprise and tanks to devastating effect in a risky night attack. The success of this attack forced Percival into replacing the 11th Indian Division with the 8th Australian Division.\n\nBy mid-January, the Japanese had reached the southern Malayan state of Johore where, on 14 January, they encountered troops from the Australian 8th Division, commanded by Major-General Gordon Bennett, for the first time in the campaign. During engagements with the Australians, the Japanese experienced their first major tactical setback, due to the stubborn resistance put up by the Australians at Gemas. The battle—centred around the Gemencheh Bridge—proved costly for the Japanese, who suffered up to 600 casualties. However, the bridge itself (which had been demolished during the fighting) was repaired within six hours.\n\nAs the Japanese attempted to outflank the Australians to the west of Gemas, one of the bloodiest battles of the campaign began on 15 January on the peninsula's West coast near the Muar River. Bennett allocated the 45th Indian Brigade—a new and half-trained formation—to defend the river's South bank but the unit was outflanked by Japanese units landing from the sea and the Brigade was effectively destroyed with its commander, Brigadier H. C. Duncan, and all three of his battalion commanders killed. Two Australian infantry battalions—which had been sent to support the 45th Brigade—were also outflanked and their retreat cut off, with one of the Australian battalion commanders killed in the fighting around the town of Bakri, south-east of Muar. During the fighting at Bakri Australian anti-tank gunners had destroyed nine Japanese tanks, slowing the Japanese advance long enough for the surviving elements of the five battalions to attempt an escape from the Muar area.\n\nLed by Australian Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Anderson, the surviving Indian and Australian troops formed the \"Muar Force\" and fought a desperate four-day withdrawal, allowing remnants of the Commonwealth troops withdrawing from northern Malaya to avoid being cut off and to push past the Japanese to safety. When the Muar Force reached the bridge at Parit Sulong and found it to be firmly in enemy hands, Anderson, with mounting numbers of dead and wounded, ordered \"every man for himself\". Those who could took to the jungles, swamps and rubber plantations in search of their division headquarters at Yong Peng. The wounded were left to the mercy of the Japanese, and all but two out of 135 were tortured and killed in the Parit Sulong Massacre. Anderson was awarded a Victoria Cross for his fighting withdrawal. The Battle of Muar cost the allies an estimated 3,000 casualties including one brigadier and four battalion commanders.\n\nOn 20 January, further Japanese landings took place at Endau, in spite of an air attack by Vildebeest bombers. The final Commonwealth defensive line in Johore of Batu Pahat–Kluang–Mersing was now being attacked along its full length. In the face of repeated requests from his Chief Engineer, Brigadier Ivan Simson, Percival had resisted the construction of fixed defences in Johore, as on the North shore of Singapore, dismissing them with the comment, \"Defences are bad for morale.\" On 27 January, Percival received permission from the commander of the American-British-Dutch-Australian Command, General Archibald Wavell, to order a retreat across the Johore Strait to the island of Singapore.\n\nOn 31 January, the last organised Allied forces left Malaya, and Allied engineers blew a -wide hole in the causeway that linked Johore and Singapore; a few stragglers would wade across over the next few days. Japanese raiders and infiltrators, often disguised as Singaporean civilians, began to cross the Straits of Johor in inflatable boats soon afterwards.\n\nIn less than two months, the Battle for Malaya had ended in comprehensive defeat for the Commonwealth forces and their retreat from the Malay Peninsula to the fortress of Singapore. Nearly 50,000 Commonwealth troops had been captured or killed during the battle. The Japanese Army invaded the island of Singapore on 7 February and completed their conquest of the island on 15 February, capturing 80,000 more prisoners out of the 85,000 allied defenders. The final battle before the surrender was with the Royal Malay Regiment at Bukit Candu on 14 February.\n\nBy the end of January, Heenan had been court-martialled for spying for the Japanese and sentenced to death. On 13 February, five days after the invasion of Singapore Island, and with Japanese forces approaching the city centre, he was taken by military police to the waterside and was hastily executed. His body was thrown into the sea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948292", "title": "One to One (band)", "text": "One to One (band)\n\nOne to One was a Canadian pop music group formed in 1984 in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. They later changed their name to One 2 One. The duo released three albums and produced ten hits on Canadian charts between 1985 and 1992.\n\nConsisting of vocalist Louise Reny and producer Leslie Howe, One to One evolved out of an Ottawa Valley band called Mainstream, which had toured the local circuit in the late '70s and early '80s performing cover songs. In 1983, Reny and Howe decided to strike out on their own, and after recording a few demos, they signed a two-album deal with Bonaire Records, and flew to West Germany to record.\n\nThe dance-fueled debut \"Forward Your Emotions\" was released in 1985 and became a smash hit across Canada. The singles \"There Was a Time\" and \"Angel in My Pocket\" charted on the Canadian Top 40, and the latter also became a minor hit on the American \"Billboard\" Hot 100 charts, reaching #92. A third single, \"Black on White\", only reached #90 on the Canadian music charts.\n\nTheir 1988 follow-up \"1-2-1\" was a more guitar-based pop album that also became a hit in Canada. The hits \"Hold Me Now\" and \"Do You Believe\" climbed into the Canadian Top 40. Two more singles, a cover of The Supremes' \"Love Child\" and \"We've Got the Power\", became modest hits as well.\n\nFollowing the demise of Bonaire Records, the group signed to A&M Records with a new look & sound as \"One 2 One\". Released in 1992, \"Imagine It\" was a light 60s/adult contemporary-based album that gave the band another hit with \"Peace of Mind (Love Goes On)\". That song also charted on the American Billboard charts at #95. Two more singles, \"Memory Lane\" and \"Friends\", reached the Canadian music Top 40 as well.\n\nFollowing this success, Howe and Reny decided to pursue a different musical direction, and joined with three other musicians in the alternative rock band Sal's Birdland, which later morphed into Artificial Joy Club. The song \"Sick and Beautiful\" from their debut album \"Melt\" went to #1 on the Canadian music Top 40.\nIn January 2010, \"Forward Your Emotions\" was re-released internationally by Wounded Bird Records.\n\nIn 1986, the band was nominated for three Juno Awards:\n\nHowe served as producer for Alanis Morissette's debut album \"Alanis\", which was only released in her native Canada, as well as Ontario based hip hop duo Mix Breed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948299", "title": "Blackhawk (band)", "text": "Blackhawk (band)\n\nBlackhawk is an American country music group founded in 1992 by Henry Paul (lead vocals, mandolin, acoustic guitar), Van Stephenson (background vocals, electric guitar), and Dave Robbins (background vocals, keyboards). Several backing musicians also performed with the trio; however, these backing musicians were not officially part of Blackhawk until 2008.\n\nPrior to the group's formation, Robbins and Stephenson had co-written several Number One singles for the country pop band Restless Heart, and Stephenson had also charted two pop hits in the early 1980s. Paul had previously been a member of the Southern rock band Outlaws as well as fronting his own band, the Henry Paul Band, from 1979 to 1983.\n\nIn 1993, Blackhawk was signed to a record deal with Arista Nashville. Their debut single, \"Goodbye Says It All\", was released that year, peaking at No. 11 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs) charts, and their first album (1994's \"Blackhawk\") was certified 2× Multi-Platinum by the RIAA. Throughout the rest of the 1990s, the band continued to chart several singles, in addition to releasing three more albums and a Greatest Hits package.\n\nVan Stephenson departed the group in 2000 due to complications from skin cancer. He was replaced with Randy Threet (also a former member of the Outlaws), who made his first appearance on \"Spirit Dancer\", the band's fifth studio album. After Threet's departure in 2003, Anthony Crawford took over as tenor vocalist and lead guitarist; Crawford was, in turn, succeeded by Michael Randall four years later. From early 2008 until he re-joined in 2010, Robbins left the group to resume his songwriting career, and Threet re-joined. Since then, BlackHawk's backing band has been subsumed into the main group, which comprises Paul (lead vocals, guitar, mandolin), Randy Threet (bass guitar, background vocals), Dale Oliver (lead guitar, background vocals), Dave Robbins (keyboards, background vocals), and Monte Yoho (drums, percussion).\n\nBlackHawk was founded in 1992 by lead vocalist/guitarist Henry Paul (born August 25, 1949), vocalist/guitarist Van Stephenson (1953-2001), and keyboardist/vocalist Dave Robbins (born May 26, 1959). The group's name was derived from the Stutz Blackhawk, a model of car. Robbins and Stephenson already had a long-standing writing partnership, having written material for Stephenson's mid-80s solo career, as well as successful singles for the country act Restless Heart.\n\nIn 1993, Blackhawk signed to Arista Nashville, releasing their debut single \"Goodbye Says It All\" that year. The song, which peaked at No. 11 on the Hot Country Songs charts in early 1994, served as the lead-off to their self-titled debut album, which also produced four more singles: \"Every Once in a While\", \"I Sure Can Smell the Rain\", \"Down in Flames\", and the Jeff Black-penned \"That's Just About Right\". These songs all reached Top Ten on the country charts. \"BlackHawk\" was certified 2× Multi-Platinum by the RIAA for shipping two million copies in the United States.\n\nBlackhawk's second album, \"Strong Enough\", was released in 1995. Its lead-off single, \"I'm Not Strong Enough to Say No\" peaked at No. 2, followed by \"Like There Ain't No Yesterday\" at No. 3. Both of these singles were also Number One hits on the \"RPM\" Top Country Tracks charts in Canada. However, none of the other three singles from the album reached Top Ten in either country with the exception of \"Big Guitar\" reaching No. 8 in Canada, and \"King of the World\", the final single, fell short of the Top 40. Nonetheless, \"Strong Enough\" earned the group an RIAA gold certification for selling 500,000 copies.\n\n\"Love & Gravity\" was the title of Blackhawk's third album, released in 1997. Only two singles were released from this album: the lead-off \"Hole in My Heart\" at No. 31 and \"Postmarked Birmingham\", one of Phil Vassar's first compositions, at No. 37. The group's chart success was restored in late 1998, however, with the release of \"There You Have It\", which went on to peak at No. 4. This song brought Blackhawk to the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for the first time, peaking at No. 41 on that chart. \"There You Have It\" was the first of two singles from 1998's \"The Sky's the Limit\", which also produced the No. 27 \"Your Own Little Corner of My Heart\".\n\nIn 2000, Blackhawk released their \"Greatest Hits\" collection, composed of the greatest hits from their first four albums. One of this album's newly recorded tracks, \"I Need You All the Time\", was a minor Top 40 hit on the country charts. Shortly afterward, Stephenson departed the group, due to complications from skin cancer, from which he died in 2001.\n\nStephenson was replaced by Randy Threet, another former member of The Outlaws, who formerly served as the bass guitarist in Blackhawk's backing band, Backhawk. In 2002, the group left Arista for Columbia Records, with one album (2002's \"Spirit Dancer\") being released on that label before the group was dropped in 2003. That same year, Threet left as well, with Anthony Crawford taking his place.\n\nIn 2005, Blackhawk sang background vocals on Keni Thomas' single \"Gloryland\", which was originally recorded by the band themselves on \"Spirit Dancer\". A year later, the band signed to Rust Records, releasing two singles but no album, due in part to the label's closure. Crawford also left in 2006, with Michael Randall succeeding him. Robbins left in 2008 and was replaced with Jon Coleman. That same year, the group's backing band — which by then comprised Chris Anderson (lead guitar, background vocals), Randy Threet (bass guitar, background vocals), and Monte Yoho (drums, percussion) — was assumed into the official lineup of BlackHawk. A live album was released in September 2008 on Airline Records.\n\nOn February 9, 2010 BlackHawk announced they were returning to the studio to work on a new album. The band hopes to have the new album completed by May 2010 and have announced several tour dates.\n\nIn July 2010, it was announced that Jon Coleman left the band to play for Trace Adkins. Founding member and keyboardist/vocalist Dave Robbins has agreed to tour with Blackhawk, although it is unknown if his schedule will allow him to join the band on a permanent basis. Taken from the official Blackhawk website and according to Henry Paul, \"We are all are glad to have Dave back in the band and hope he decides to stay for the long haul.\"\n\n\"Down from the Mountain\" was the band's sixth studio album and was released in 2011. It contained nine new songs from the band and a different version of the song \"Forgiveness\", which appeared on the band's previous studio album, \"Spirit Dancer\".\n\nIn 2015, Blackhawk released their seventh studio album, \"Brothers Of The Southland.\"\n\nDale Oliver, former touring member, returned to the band in January 2018 replacing Chris Anderson.\n\nIn addition to its three core members, Blackhawk was originally accompanied by a backing band called Backhawk, which comprised Tere Bertke (bass guitar), Dale Oliver (guitar), and Bobby Huff (drums). Oliver left in the early 2000s for a career composing theme music for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. Blackhawk began counting its backing band as official members in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948300", "title": "Leslie Howe", "text": "Leslie Howe\n\nLeslie Howe is a Canadian musician and record producer based in Ottawa, Ontario. He has been a member of the bands One to One, Sal's Birdland and Artificial Joy Club, and produced Alanis Morissette's early pop music albums.\n\nBeginning in the 1970s, Howe and Louise Reny were members of a local Ottawa band Mainstream. Howe operated a small recording studio in Ottawa. In 1984 Howe joined with Reny to create the duo One to One; they signed a recording contract with the British label Bonaire, and travelled to Germany to record an album, \"Forward Your Emotions\". Howe was nominated for Producer of the Year and \"Recording Engineer of the Year\" at the 1986 Juno Awards for this album. The pair released a single, \"Do You Believe\" which appeared on the RPM 100 Singles chart in June and July 1989. After changing their name to One 2 One, they recorded an album with A&M Records; their 1992 single \"Peace of Mind (Love Goes On)\" appeared on the RPM 100 Singles Chart for several months.\n\nHowe met Alanis Morissette in 1988 and the two began writing songs together; Morissette signed a contract with Howe's production company, Ghettovale, and with the help of Remy and musician Frank Levin, they recorded a demonstration video with Morissette singing one of these compositions, \"Walk Away\". The demo led to a recording contract for her with MCA Records. Howe produced her first pop music albums \"Alanis\" (1991) and \"Now Is the Time\" (1992).\n\nHowe joined the grunge band Sal's Birdland, once more with Reny; in 1993 the group independently released an album, \"So Very Happy\", and later released \"Nude Photos Inside\" through MCA Records. After changing their name to Artificial Joy Club, in 1997 the band recorded a single, \"Sick and Beautiful\", which climbed the Billboard charts. Also that year the band recorded an album, \"Melt\", on the Crunchy/Interscope label, were showcased on MTV and performed as part of the Lollapalooza tour.\n"}
{"id": "1948305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948305", "title": "Generation Rescue", "text": "Generation Rescue\n\nGeneration Rescue is a nonprofit organization that advocates the scientifically disproven view that autism and related disorders are primarily caused by environmental factors, particularly vaccines. The organization was established in 2005 by Lisa and J.B. Handley. Today, Generation Rescue is known as a platform for Jenny McCarthy's autism related anti-vaccine advocacy.\n\nThe organization was established in 2005 by Lisa and J.B. Handley and 150 volunteer \"Rescue Angels\". Beginning in the spring of 2005 and running through January 2007. More recently it has been led by Jenny McCarthy, an author, television personality and former \"Playboy\" model. Since McCarthy has become president, the organization has been rebranded variously as \"Jenny McCarthy and Jim Carrey's Autism Organization\", \"Jenny McCarthy's Generation Rescue\" and \"Jenny McCarthy's Autism Organization\". Bonnie Rochman wrote in \"Time\", \"...McCarthy’s celebrity status has meant that her affiliation with Generation Rescue, an organization that links autism with immunization, has spooked thousands of parents, encouraging them to reject vaccines for their children — the same vaccines that are responsible for saving lives around the world.\"\n\nGeneration Rescue has proposed a number of possible causes for developmental-related issues, such as vaccines, the increase in the number of vaccines administered, and thiomersal, a mercury-based vaccine preservative. Generation Rescue claims that biomedical intervention can help children recover. The hypotheses that vaccines, such as MMR, or thiomersal cause autism have been refuted by scientific research, as have claims that diets, drugs or chelation can cure autism. Because of Generation Rescue's public profile through national advertising and because its point of view is not shared by the mainstream medical community, its message has been controversial, and the organization has been described as anti-vaccine.\n\nSeveral products and treatments recommended by Generation rescue to their members are sold by members of their Board of Director or their medical advisory board. A $20,000 hyperbaric chamber sold by a firm whose President is then-board member Samir Patel was promoted by the group. Generation rescue also encourages its members to seek hyperbaric treatments from Dan Rossignol, who is a member of their Science Advisory Board. Another member of that board, Anjum Usman Singh, also offers such treatments and received a reprimand by the Medical Board of the California Department of Consumer Affairs for failing to disclose she held a financial interest in the company selling the chambers she used with her patients.\n\nIt recommends lollipops enriched with vitamins sold by a company co-founded by Stan Kurtz and owned by Candace McDonald, who have been respectively a President of Generation Rescue and its Executive Director for ten years. For a time, the lollipops were sold directly through the group's website. A $2,000 foot bath that was promoted by Generation Rescue is sold by a sponsor of the group who contributes a minimum of $25,000 to its operating budget.\n\nEach of these featured products are not recognized by the medical community as effective against autism. Until March, 2019, the organization also offered grants to some families, with which they would buy products offered by companies sponsoring Generation Rescue.\n\nOn June 19, 2017, Generation Rescue held a fundraising event in St. Charles, Illinois with Jenny McCarthy and husband Donnie Wahlberg, with part of the proceeds to be put aside for the construction of an integrative health clinic. Construction of the clinic begun in July, under a company managed by Candace McDonald, who was then Executive Director of Generation Rescue. Jenny McCarthy herself was on hand for the ground-breaking ceremony. The clinic was to open in January, 2018.\n\nConstruction was stopped in the Fall of 2017 and the construction contractor filed a lawsuit for non-payment of invoices amounting to $500,000. Generation Rescue now denies it has any links to the construction of the clinic. However, Generation Rescue, Candace McDonald and Jenny McCarthy were named in the suit as Respondents in Discovery. The lawsuit was settled; while the terms of the settlement are confidential, title to the site of the proposed clinic was relinquished to the contractor, who had intended to redraw the building’s floor plans and finish individual suites. The property was subsequently developed as Fiore Salon Suites.\n\nGeneration Rescue previously co-sponsored an annual conference in Chicago along with another controversial charity, Autism One. The choice of speakers at these conferences led critics to accuse both organizations of promoting unproven therapies, such as the Miracle Mineral Solution, as a purported cure for autism. These conferences have also been criticized because Andrew Wakefield has spoken at them. They have also been criticized because many of the speakers presenting \"so-called treatments\" have a financial interest in them.\n\nJ.B. Handley said of Andrew Wakefield, originator of the claim that the MMR vaccine causes autism: \"To our community, Andrew Wakefield is Nelson Mandela and Jesus Christ rolled up into one. He’s a symbol of how all of us feel.\" However, Wakefield's work has been characterized as \"an elaborate fraud\", and parental fears over vaccines sparked by the controversy, and by continued advocacy of the disproven theory by groups such as Generation Rescue despite, have led, in turn, to decreased immunization rates and an increased incidence of whooping cough and measles, a highly contagious and sometimes deadly disease.\n\nGeneration Rescue issued a statement that the \"media circus\" following the revelation of Wakefield's fraud and manipulation of data was \"much ado about nothing\". \"Salon\" responded to Generation Rescue's statement with:\n\nMuch of Generation Rescue's case is based on publications that do not go through a proper peer review process. Writing for \"Forbes\", Emily Willingham characterized Generation Rescue as \"an organization devoted to the debunked notion that vaccines cause autism and that autistic people can be 'recovered' from their autism by way of various unproven and sometimes dangerous interventions, including chelation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948333", "title": "Estadio Olímpico Pascual Guerrero", "text": "Estadio Olímpico Pascual Guerrero\n\nThe Estadio Olimpico Pascual Guerrero is a football stadium, also used for athletics, concerts and rugby sevens, in Santiago de Cali, Colombia which is named to honor the poet Pascual Guerrero. The stadium and the sports complex that surrounds it were, from the 1950s to the 1970s, one of the finest and most modern sports complexes in Latin America, and led to references of Cali as the \"Sports Capital of America\".\n\nThe \"Pascual\", as Cali's inhabitants usually call the stadium, replaced the now defunct \"Estadio Galilea\" which was located in the Versailles neighbourhood, where the first national athletics competition was held in 1928. The Pascual is still an important venue for domestic and international sporting events.\n\nWith renovations made for the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup in Colombia and additional suits and sky boxes the stadium's capacity was reduced to 35,000 people. It is currently the home of América de Cali, Atlético and Boca Juniors, and was the home of Deportivo Cali until 2015 when they moved into their new stadium on a permanent basis.\n\nIn the year 1935, the poet Pascual Guerrero asked the department to build a stadium on the grounds that the offering. On 20 July 1937, construction was completed, and the facility opened with the name \"Estadio Departamental\". President Alfonso López Pumarejo was present when the stadium was inaugurated with a quadrangular tournament between the countries of Argentina, Cuba, Mexico and Colombia. The opening of the stadium coincided with celebrations to mark the fourth centenary of the founding of Cali. Subsequently, on November 4, 1957, the government of the Valle del Cauca ceded to the Universidad del Valle the lands that comprise the entire sports complex, a gift ratified by the Ministry of Government.\n\nIn 1948 the first game of professional football was played at the stadium, and in 1954 the stadium was home to the National Sports Games VII. It was remodeled and expanded, with Olympic swimming pools built, and consequently renamed \"Sports Complex San Fernando\".\n\nWith the appointment of Cali to the realisation of the VI Pan American Games, in 1967 the stadium was restructured and adapted to Olympic standards of the time, that's why he built a track of 8 lanes developed in Tartan Synthetic, Pit and spaces testing for shot put and hammer, long jump and pole vault. The capacity was expanded to accommodate 45,000 spectators, and also added was conditioned lights and an electronic bulletin board. With reform, the Sports Unit of San Fernando was built for the 1954 National Games, it becomes part of the Pan American Sports Unit that would host in 1971 the VI Pan American Games.\n\nOn the occasion of the 1995 Pacific Ocean Games some physical renovations were approved, including its Synthetic Tartan track, which was replaced in its entirety according to the requirements for competitions to be held in the year 1995.\n\nDue to the deterioration of the north grandstand of the stadium it was closed for several years until in 1999 began its remodeling. In 2000 further renovations were approved at its facilities where it takes special emphasis on the study of structural, locational problems are corrected as well as space for the sporting community and the grass and drainage of the field is completely replaced, all this to host games of the Copa America to be held next year.\nIn 2005, due to the organization for version 43 of the South American Championships in Athletics, the synthetic track is repaired in several sections, this time using a material approved by the International Athletics Federation IAAF named Sport Flex. This confirms the track federation and accepted as official new brands that are presented.\n\nSince October 2006, on the occasion of hosting again the National Games of 2008, began work on tracks, fields, pools and arenas.\n\nIn 2009 it designed an expensive remodeling of the World Cup U-20, 2011 to be held in Colombia. The study said there was seats built throughout the stadium, improved dressing rooms, boxes built in the eastern grandstand, VIP areas in western line by a big screen or an electronic board and also some underground parking in the south grandstand. On December 10 of the same year the works were officially inaugurated with the presence of the mayor and the president of Coldeportes. The works started in the south grandstand and lasted 16 months. The stadium capacity was increased to 45,312-seated stadium spectators.\n\nThe remodeling work finished in time for the 2011 U-20 World Cup and it consisted of a series of Calatrava trusses supporting a membrane or fabric structure. The design of the fabric was performed by Arq. Roberto Muñoz, now with Dunn Mexico, and the design of the structural steel Calatrava trusses was performed by structural engineer Marco Cano with Fractal Structural Engineering.\n\nIn stage Matches are played regularly Hervey, Copa Sudamericana and Copa Libertadores, which until 2009 was home to teams in the region Deportivo Cali and América.\n\nThe stadium has hosted the VI Pan American Games and the National Games on several occasions, the Games of the Pacific Ocean and home to Cali 1995 South American Championships in Athletics 2005.\n\nDuring the Copa America 2001 it was the headquarters of the group B. A total of six games were played between the national teams of Brazil, Paraguay, Peru and Mexico. These matches were held between July 11 and July 17 of 2001.\n\nThe stadium is also the training site and home for Liga Vallecaucana School and Intercollegiate Games.\n\nThe more traditional music event that takes place in the stadium is the Super Concert, in which different bands and invited singers perform at the annual celebration named Feria de Cali, which is held between the 25th to the 30th of December. During the eighties, there was a big concert named \"Festival de Orquestas\" of La Feria de Cali, which for a whole day had different orchestras playing for about 12 hours.\n\nAlso, the stadium is the main stage of national and international artists. Juanes, Maná, Shakira, Soda Estereo, Marc Anthony, Gloria Estefan, David Gilmour and Roger Daltrey are some of the artists that have performed at the stadium. Vicente Fernandez is scheduled to perform at the stadium during his Mi Despedida World Tour.\n\nVarious Christian events have also been held at the venue, including a two-day 'Miracle Crusade' with Nigerian Pastor T.B. Joshua in 2014.\n\nThe stadium is divided into seven stands for sporting events (in order from lowest to highest ct):\n\n\nThe stadium is located in the San Fernando traditional neighborhood in central-south of the city, between the traditional Fifth Street (Calle 5a) and Roosevelt Avenue (Calle 6a). Next to the stage of the Evangelista Mora gym arena, the Alberto Galindo Olympic Pools and form the so-called San Fernando Sports Unit also known as Pan American Sports Unit.\n\nAccess from the South or North of the city is Fifth Street, which passes a backbone of Mass Transit System MIO and has a station right in front of Parque de las Banderas. From the south you can get to the stadium along the Avenue of the Hippodrome (Better known as Ninth Street), going through the intersection of the Diagonal 34 to Roosevelt Avenue, which restricts access of vehicles during the course of the event.\n\nNear the south stand is the \"Booth Maria\" ballots authorized outlets. The stadium has no parking, but often used is the street and surrounding streets to park cars, with no particular formal surveillance.\n"}
{"id": "1948335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948335", "title": "Kizhi Pogost", "text": "Kizhi Pogost\n\nKizhi Pogost () is a historical site dating from the 17th century on Kizhi island. The island is located on Lake Onega in the Republic of Karelia (Medvezhyegorsky District), Russia. The pogost is the area inside a fence which includes two large wooden churches (the 22-dome Transfiguration Church and the 9-dome Intercession Church) and a bell-tower. The pogost is famous for its beauty and longevity, despite being built exclusively of wood. In 1990, it was included in the UNESCO list of World Heritage sites and in 1993 listed as a Russian Cultural Heritage site.\n\nThe pogost was built on the southern part of Kizhi island, on a hill 4 meters above the Lake Onega level. Its major basic structural unit is a round log of Scots Pine (\"Pinus sylvestris\") about 30 cm in diameter and 3 to 5 meters long. The Kizhi Pogost was built without using a single nail. Many thousands of logs were brought for construction from the mainland, a complex logistical task in that time.\n\nThe Church of the Transfiguration () is the most remarkable part of the pogost. It is not heated and is, therefore, called a summer church and does not hold winter services. Its altar was laid June 6, 1714, as inscribed on the cross located inside the church. This church was built on the site of the old one which was burnt by lightning. The builders' names are unknown. A legend tells that the main builder used one axe for the whole construction, which he threw into the lake upon completion with the words \"there was not and will be not another one to match it\".\n\nThe church has 22 domes and with a height of 37 meters is one of the tallest wooden buildings in Northern Europe. Its perimeter is 20×29 meters. It is considered that the 18-dome church on the southern shore of Lake Onega — built in 1708 and destroyed by fire in 1963 - was its forerunner. According to the Russian carpentry traditions of that time, the Transfiguration Church was built of wood only with no nails apart from the domes and roof shingles. There are approximately 180,000 nails securing the 60,000 roof shingles. All structures were made of scribe-fitted horizontal logs, with interlocking corner joinery — either round notch or dovetail — cut by axes. The basis of the structure is the octahedral frame with four two-stage side attachments (, \"prirub\" from \"rubit\" meaning \"to cut wood\"). The eastern prirub has a pentagonal shape and contains the altar. Two smaller octagons of similar shape are mounted on top of the main octagon. The structure is covered in 22 domes of different size and shape, which run from the top to the sides. The refectory is covered with a three-slope roof. In the 19th century, the church was decorated with batten and some parts were covered with steel. It was restored to its original design in the 1950s.\n\nThe church framework rests on a stone base without a deep foundation, except for the western aisle for which a foundation was built in 1870. Most wood is pine with spruce planks on the flat roofs. The domes are covered in aspen.\n\nThe iconostasis has four levels () and contains 102 icons. It is dated to the second half of the 18th – early 19th century. The icons are from three periods: the two oldest icons, \"The Transfiguration\" () and \"Pokrov\" () are from the late 17th century and are typical of the northern style. The central icons are from the second half of the 18th century and are also of the local style. Most icons of the three upper tiers are of the late 18th century, brought from various parts of Russia.\n\nThe Church of the Intercession () is a heated (\"winter\") church where services are held from October 1 until Easter. The church was the first on the island after a fire in the late 17th century destroyed all previous churches. It was first built in 1694 as a single-dome structure, then reconstructed in 1720–1749 and in 1764 rebuilt into its present 9-dome design as an architectural echo of the main Transfiguration Church. It stands 32 meters tall with a 26×8 meter perimeter. There are nine domes, one larger in the center, surrounded by eight smaller ones. Decoration is scant. A high single-part porch leads into the four interior parts of the church. As in the Transfiguration Church, the altar is placed in the eastern part shaped as a pentagon. The original iconostasis was replaced at the end of the 19th century and is lost; it was rebuilt in the 1950s to the original style.\n\nThe original bell-tower rapidly deteriorated and was re-built in 1862 and further reconstructed in 1874 and 1900. The tower stands 30 meters tall with a 6×6 meter perimeter. It has a square wooden frame resting on a foundation (rubble with lime mortar);\nthe frame is divided inside by two walls into three rooms: antechamber, stairs and a storage place. Above the square frame, there is an octagonal part with the zvonnitsa on top. Then there is a pyramidal (octagonal) roof resting on pillars. The roof is topped with a cross. Wood types are the same as in the churches: pine, spruce and aspen.\n\nThe fence serves no defensive purpose at all. It is a symbolic division between the holy ground and the outside world. It was reconstructed in the 1950s as a 300-meter-long log structure surrounding the two churches and the belfry. The structure rests on a tall boulder basement. The main entrance is 14.4 meters wide and 2.25 meters tall, and faces east near the Church of the Intercession. There are wicket gates at the eastern and northern sides and a small wooden tower in the north-western corner. The tower has a square base and a four-slope batten roof with a spire. The walls, gates and wickets are also roofed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948338", "title": "Savage Empire", "text": "Savage Empire\n\nSavage Empire is a novel by Jean Lorrah published in 1981.\n\n\"Savage Empire\" is a novel in which two societies have been warring for many years: the psionic Aventine Empire and the barbarians who practice magic.\n\nGreg Costikyan reviewed \"Savage Empire\" in \"Ares Magazine\" #9 and commented that \"On the whole, \"Savage Empire\" is an entertaining though flawed first effort, good enough to justify looking for Lorrah's next novel.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1948342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948342", "title": "Tazir", "text": "Tazir\n\nIn Islamic Law, tazir (or ta'zir, ) refers to punishment for offenses at the discretion of the judge (Qadi) or ruler of the state. It is one of three major types of punishments or sanctions under Sharia Islamic law — \"hadd\", \"qisas\" and \"tazir\". The punishments for the Hadd offenses are fixed by the Qur'an or Hadith (i.e. \"defined by God\"), qisas allow equal retaliation in cases of intentional bodily harm, while ta'zir refers to punishments applied to the other offenses for which no punishment is specified in the Qur'an or the Hadith.\n\nThe classical Islamic legal tradition did not have a separate category for criminal law as does modern law. The classical Islamic jurisprudence typically divided the subject matter of law into four \"quarters\", that is rituals, sales, marriage, and injuries. In modern usage, Islamic criminal law has been extracted and collated from that classical Islamic jurisprudence literature into three categories of rules:\n\n\nThe word tazir is not used in the Quran or the Hadith, in the sense that modern Islamic criminal law uses it. However, in several verses of the Quran, crimes are identified, punishment of the accused indicated, but no specific punishment is described. These instances led early Islamic scholars to interpret the Quran as requiring discretionary punishment of certain offenses, namely Tazir. Example specific verses from the Quran that support taazir are,\n\nTazir offenses are broadly grouped into two sub-categories in Islamic literature. The first are those offenses that have the same nature but do not exactly meet the complete requirements of hudud crimes. Examples of such Tazir offenses include thefts among relatives, or attempted but unsuccessful robbery, fornication that does not include penetration, and homosexual contacts such as kissing that does not result in fornication. The second sub-category of Tazir offenses relate to offenses committed by an individual that violate the behavior demanded in the Quran and the Hadiths. Examples of the second sub-category include false testimony, loaning money or any property to another person for interest in addition to principal, any acts that threaten or damage the public order or Muslim community or Islam.\n\nThe fourteenth century Islamic jurist Ibn Taymiyyah included any form of disobedience as a Tazir offense, and listed several examples where there is no legal penalty in Sharia:\n\nNumerous other offenses are included in Tazir category.\n\nTazir punishments were common in Sharia courts for less serious offenses. Punishments vary with the nature of crime and include a prison term, flogging, a fine, banishment, and seizure of property. The sixteenth-century Egyptian jurist Ibn Nujaym said that taʿzīr could consist of lashing, slapping, rubbing the ears, a stern telling-off, disparagement short of slander, or an angry look from the judge. Execution is allowed in cases such as habitual homosexuality, practices which split the Muslim community, propagating heretical doctrines or espionage on behalf of an enemy of the Muslim state. All four schools of \"fiqh\" (\"Madhhab\"), namely Hanafi, Maliki, Shafii and Hanbali, permit the death penalty at the discretion of the state or \"Qadi\", for certain Tazir offenses. \n\nBrunei introduced Tazir into its Syariah Penal Code Order effective 2014. Tazir crimes in Brunei now include offenses such as failing to perform Friday prayers by anyone above 15 years old, any Muslim disrespecting the month of Ramadan, and khalwat (dating or any form of close proximity between unrelated members of opposite sex).\n\nIran introduced Tazir into its legal code after the 1979 Revolution, naming the section as \"Qanon-e Tazir\". These Tazir laws allow prosecution of offenses such as illicit kissing, failing to wear proper head dress such as \"hejab\", and making critical statements against judges and members of the Council of Guardians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948343", "title": "Jenny Willott", "text": "Jenny Willott\n\nJennifer Nancy Willott (born 29 May 1974) is a British politician. She was the Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Cardiff Central from 2005 to 2015. Willott became a junior minister in the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and Government Equalities Office in December 2013, temporarily standing in for Jo Swinson while she was on maternity leave. She is the first woman and first Liberal Democrat to represent her seat. She was a councillor in the London Borough of Merton from 1998 to 2000.\n\nWillott was born in Wimbledon, London. She was educated at Uppingham School, studied Classics at St Mary's College, Durham University, and attended the London School of Economics, obtaining an MSc in Development Studies.\n\nFor a while after university she was chief researcher for Lembit Opik, Liberal Democrat MP for Montgomeryshire.\n\nWillott's 2005 campaign was closely linked to specific local and national issues and her support was widespread across all wards.\n\nIn her maiden speech, Willott pledged to \"make Cardiff proud\" and celebrated the cultural diversity of her constituency. She declared her priorities in parliament would be local health services, tuition and top-up fees, and council tax.\nShe supported Sir Menzies Campbell in the leadership election in 2006, and was later appointed Shadow Minister for Youth Affairs, Whip, and Deputy Chief Whip.\n\nIn 2008 she was appointed as Shadow Minister for Justice and later Shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. In January 2009 she was appointed Shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.\n\nIn December 2010 she resigned her post as parliamentary aide to Chris Huhne shortly before a vote to increase tuition fees as recommended by the Browne Review, to keep her pledge to constituents that she would vote against any increase in fees.\n\nIn a mini-reshuffle of the Coalition Government on 3 February 2012 caused by Huhne's prosecution and subsequent resignation, Willott was appointed an Assistant Whip.\n\nIn May 2014 Willott complained about the hostile atmosphere of prime minister's questions and the low number of female ministers. She called for all-female shortlists for MPs, something which was not Liberal Democrat party policy.\nIn 2014, she left the Government but was appointed to the Privy Council by David Cameron. In 2015, she lost her seat in the House of Commons to the Labour Party's Jo Stevens.\n\nWillott works as The Director of Enterprise and Innovation at St Mary’s University, Twickenham. She is also a member of IPSAs board.\n\nShe was awarded an OBE in the Queen's 2018 Birthday Honours for Services to Political and Public Life.\n\nShe is married to Andrew Poole and they have two children; the birth of her second child in February 2013 notably necessitated her absence from a vote on the Marriage (Same-Sex Couples) Bill.\n\nWillott was subject to criticism from rival political parties and the media in the wake of the expenses scandal, as it emerged she claimed more in expenses and administration costs than any other Welsh MP. Her expenses and office costs were £57,000 in a year, including claims for a new flat and costs of moving offices in central Cardiff.\n\nWillott also came under some pressure from political opponents over her support for the bedroom tax. A protest outside her Cardiff office about the issue led to her not going in for the day.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948349", "title": "Worlds of Ultima: The Savage Empire", "text": "Worlds of Ultima: The Savage Empire\n\nWorlds of Ultima: The Savage Empire is a role-playing video game set in the Ultima series, published in 1990. It is considered a \"Worlds of Ultima\" game, as it is not set in Britannia. It uses the same engine as \"\" (and \"Martian Dreams\"). In June 18, 2012, Electronic Arts released the game as freeware through GOG.com.\n\nAfter the events in \"Ultima VI\", the Avatar is transported by a friend's failed experiment with an obsidian \"moonstone\" to the otherworldly Valley of Eodon, a large jungle-like world filled with various tribes. These tribes have been magically drawn from varying periods and locations in history, such as the aboriginal nations of Mesoamerica and tropical Africa. The valley of Eodon is actually on Earth, but it is inaccessible and unmappable.\n\nAt the time of the arrival of the Avatar, the place is under attack from the insect-like Myrmidex. The Avatar needs to understand and master some aspects of their stone-age tribal culture and their \"jungle magic\" to find a way to bring peace to the valley. The main plot involves getting all thirteen tribes to join in an alliance against the Myrmidex. Each tribe has its own demands before joining, ranging from defeating a Tyrannosaurus rex to recovering their holy statue. This mixture of worlds was created by a huge corrupted moonstone that the Myrmidex possess, which has to be destroyed to prevent it collapsing in instability.\n\nThe player commands the Avatar and a party generally consisting of up to four other characters. However, two set events in the game add a character to the party even if this limit has been reached, resulting in a maximum party size of seven characters.\n\nParty characters:\n\nOther characters:\n\nOrigin sold a special edition of the game autographed by Lord British. It came with a hint book and T-shirt.\n\nA port of \"Savage Empire\" was released in Japan for the Super Famicom, using the game engine from the Super NES version of \"Ultima VII: The Black Gate\". The game was localized and planned for a USA release, but that was eventually cancelled.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" described \"Savage Empire\" as \"not too difficult, but occasionally tricky. Good for filling in the hours while you wait for the next real \"Ultima\"\". \"Game Player\" magazine named \"Savage Empire\" the best PC fantasy RPG of 1990.\n\nOn release, \"Famicom Tsūshin\" gave the Super Famicom version of the game a score of 23 out of 40. \"GamePro\" gave it a negative review, citing crude graphics, sparse sound effects, confusing menus, and the trial-and-error involved in combining objects, as well as \"the long-winded conversations, confusing subplots, and annoying characters who pop up for seemingly no reason at all.\" Mike Weigand of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" stated \"These PC-RPG conversions never really did it for me and \"Savage Empire\" is no exception. The action here is slow and definitely geared more toward strategy-oriented game players.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1948354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948354", "title": "River Elegy", "text": "River Elegy\n\nRiver Elegy () was a six-part documentary by Wang Luxiang, shown on China Central Television in June 16, 1988 which portrayed the decline of traditional Chinese culture.\n\nThe film asserted that the Ming Dynasty's ban on activities alluded to the building of the Great Wall by China's first emperor Ying Zheng. China's land-based civilization was defeated by maritime civilizations backed by modern sciences, and was further challenged with the problem of life and death ever since the latter half of the 19th century, landmarked by the Opium War. Using the analogy of the Yellow River, China was portrayed as once at the forefront of civilization, but subsequently dried up due to isolation and conservatism. Rather, the revival of China must come from the flowing blue seas which represent the explorative, open cultures of the West and Japan.\n\n\"River Elegy\" caused immense controversy in mainland China due to its negative portrayal of Chinese culture. Rob Gifford, a National Public Radio journalist, said that the film used images and interviews to state that the concept of \"the Chinese being a wonderful ancient people with a wonderful ancient culture was a big sham, and that the entire population needed to change.\" Gifford said that the film's most significant point was its attack on the Yellow River, a river which was a significant element of China's historical development and which symbolizes ancient Chinese culture. Using the ancient Chinese saying that \"a dipperful of Yellow River water is seven-tenths mud,\" the authors of the film use the river's silt and sediment as a metaphor for Confucian traditions and the significance of the traditions which the authors believe caused China to stagnate. The authors hoped that Chinese traditional culture would end and be replaced by a more modernized and open culture. The film symbolizes Chinese thinking with the \"yellowness\" of the Yellow River and Western thinking with the \"blueness\" of the ocean. The film also criticized the Great Wall, saying that it \"can only represent an isolationist, conservative, and incompetent defense,\" the imperial dragon on the Great Wall, calling it \"cruel and violent,\" and other Chinese symbols. The ending of \"River Elegy\" symbolized the authors' dreams with the idea of the waters of the Yellow River emptying out of the river and mixing with the ocean. Gifford said that \"River Elegy\" reveals the thoughts of young intellectuals post-Mao Zedong and pre-Tiananmen Square and the freedoms that appeared around 1988.\n\nGifford said that while the film did not openly criticize the Communist Party of China; instead it contained \"not-so-subtle\" attacks on Chinese imperial traditions that therefore would also criticize the contemporary political system. Conservatives in Mainland China attacked the film.\n\nAfter the events of Tiananmen Square some of the staff members of \"River Elegy\" were arrested and others fled Mainland China. Two of the main writers who escaped to the United States became evangelical Christians.\n\n\"River Elegy (Heshang)\" aroused immediate debates and great controversy among intellectual circles, the Party’s top leadership, and even the overseas Chinese community after its first broadcast in June 1988. On 11 June 1988, Chinese Central Television (CCTV) started airing the six-part documentary series, and soon after, the \"People’s Daily\" published the scripts of the film. After the first show, \"Heshang\" stirred up fierce debates among university students and intellectuals. Many journals and universities organized several seminars including the “\"Heshang\" Month” in Wuhan and the “\"Heshang\" week” in Tianjin to discuss the series and its content, which was called the “\"Heshang\" Phenomenon” (\"Heshang xianxiang\"). In the beginning, debates mainly focused on the cultural significance of the film, and most audience comments were very positive. Many viewers regarded \"Heshang\" as the “beginning of a new Chinese TV culture” that was innovative in its artistic expression and cultural analysis. Since 1978, intellectuals had discussed and debated about the influence of Chinese culture and traditions on the future development of the country. Such debate, however, was limited to the scholarly sphere. Some audiences thus praised \"Heshang\" for its attempt to introduce the scholarly discussion about the impact of Chinese traditional culture to the public. More importantly, they considered the film the first Chinese documentary that dared to criticize the “backwardness” of Chinese traditional culture and social problems at the time.\n\nOfficial Attention: Political controversy about \"Heshang\" arose and attracted attention from the Party’s top leadership when a university president phoned Hu Qili, a pro-reform officer who was a member of the Standing Committee of the Politburo and the Central Secretariat, and warned him that the series might stir up student unrest. Hu immediately contacted the minister of Radio, Film, and Television, requesting that he re-evaluate the series. Meanwhile, Zhao Ziyang, Yang Shangkun, Deng Pufang (Deng Xiaoping’s son) and some other Politburo members privately screened \"Heshang\". While Zhao and Deng had supportive attitudes toward the film, a few members of the Politburo were offended by \"Heshang\"’s harsh criticism of Chinese traditions and the Party’s policies since 1978, as well as its attack on Leninist theories. Confused by the divided opinions expressed from the top leadership, CCTV held internal meetings to discuss whether it should terminate broadcasting \"Heshang\", but it did not reach a decision until the series was completely broadcast.\n\nAugust 1988 Revised Version: \"Heshang\" was so popular that many audiences requested a repeat of the show after its first run. Given that the documentary had aroused much tension among the Party’s top leaders, the Ministry of Radio, Film and Television ordered CCTV to revise the original version of the film before it could be broadcast again. In the repeat version, politically sensitive contents were either removed or toned down. The deleted contents included the film’s supportive attitude toward the 1986 student demonstrations and its call for the government to establish dialogue with Chinese citizens; criticism against government corruption, inflation and the CCP’s ignorance of the mentally and economically impoverished situation of Chinese intellectuals; as well as criticism against the CCP’s policies and its mismanagement that caused such “man-made disasters” as the 1987 great forest fires in Daxing’anling, and the 1988 Shanghai hepatitis epidemic. \nThe revised \"Heshang\" was aired in August 1988 and triggered even greater debates. At the Third Plenum of the 13th Central Committee, Wang Zhen, the then vice president, fiercely attacked \"Heshang\" by giving a long speech to criticize its “counter-revolutionary” contents. Wang insisted the film not only posed “vicious vilification” toward Chinese people, but it was also “anti-Party and anti-socialism.” Wang also criticized the “blue sea civilization” that was promoted in the film as “bandit civilization and bandit logic.” While some party leaders supported Wang’s view, Zhao Ziyang, backed up by Yang Shangkun, argued that artistic work like \"Heshang\" conveyed cultural rather than political implications, so it should not be discussed at a political meeting. The debates between the two sides continued after the conference, until Zhao Ziyang was forced to issue two principles in dealing with the \"Heshang\" controversy. The principles urged the Party to allow the public debates without taking an official stand on the documentary, and stressed that any Party leaders’ personal opinions toward the documentary did not represent the viewpoint of the Party as a whole.\n\nIntellectual Debates: The debates about \"Heshang\" were also carried on among intellectuals. Two major liberal newspapers, the \"Science and Technology Daily\" of Beijing and the \"World Economic Herald\" of Shanghai, sponsored a symposium to discuss issues raised in \"Heshang\". Positive comments mainly praised the film as a courageous work that called for the Chinese to re-examine their traditional culture in order to get rid of the ideological obstacles that hindered the nation’s further development. Some intellectuals such as Yang Zhenning and Li Zhengdao, the Nobel-Prize winners, criticized the film by pointing out that “a person [who] denies its own culture does not have a future.” In addition, criticism against \"Heshang\" stressed that the film was biased and it only represented the “elitist grumblings” (gaoji laosao). For instance, the film wrongfully employed western criteria to judge China’s social realities and attributed the country’s current problems to the backwardness of its traditional culture. It also regarded the Great Wall, the Yellow River and the Chinese dragon as isolated symbols that represented conservativeness of Chinese traditional culture in comparison with the blue sea that symbolized the superiority of western civilization. In response to the criticism, Yuan Zhiming, the co-author of the sixth part of the documentary, argued that \"Heshang\" was not a scholarly work but rather a type of cultural product that aimed to call for Chinese people to “think about the historical heritage standing in the way of modernization”. He emphasized that opening policy could not be successfully implemented, if China merely promoted economic openness without learning from western ideas and embracing cultural pluralism.\n\nDebates in Taiwan and Hong Kong: In Taiwan and Hong Kong, newspapers and TV program reported the “\"Heshang fever\"” debates in P.R.China. People who held positive opinions toward \"Heshang\" shared the same standpoints with the ones in mainland China, whereas others criticized the film’s “arbitrary” attack on Chinese traditional culture and Confucianism. Some Taiwanese believed that the documentary was wrong to blame China’s backwardness on Confucianism. They argued that the Communist regime and its policies, rather than Confucianism, hindered the development of the nation’s modernization. For instance, critics said that Taiwan had achieved rapid development by successfully combining Confucianism with western democratic ideas.\n\nAfter June 4, 1989: After the CCP’s crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the Party criticized \"Heshang\" as one of the anti-communist work that mistakenly advocated bourgeoisie-liberal ideologies and provoked student unrest. It also launched intense nationwide media attacks against the series. During a CCTV self-criticism meeting that was broadcast on the evening news across China after the June 4th crackdown, Hong Mingsheng, the vice director of Chinese Central Television, said that “‘\"River Elegy\"’ was a propaganda coup for bourgeois liberalization [...], it provided theoretical and emotional preparation for the recent turmoil and rebellion\" .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948355", "title": "Leaders of Hereroland", "text": "Leaders of Hereroland\n\nThe Herero people of Namibia are ruled by traditional leaders, the highest office is that of the \"Paramount Chief\". During part of the South African apartheid administration in South West Africa, when Hereroland was a bantustan (designated area for Herero settlement), they additionally had a political representative to the South African Administration, which was decoupled from chieftaincy in 1980. The Paramount Chief of the Herero is Vekuii Rukoro, the position of the representative of Hereroland was abolished in May 1989 as part of the transition to Namibian independence which was declared in March 1990.\n\nThe genealogy of the Paramount Chiefs of the Herero is:\n\nHereroland was declared in 1968, along with other bantustans in South West Africa. Self–governance of Hereroland was granted on 26 Jul 1970, which lasted until May 1989. The Chair of the Executive Committee of Hereroland was occupied by:\n\n"}
{"id": "1948356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948356", "title": "Hostal", "text": "Hostal\n\nA hostal is a type of lodging found mostly in Spain and Hispanic America. Hostales tend to be cheaper than hotels. They normally have a bar, restaurant or cafeteria where drinks and food are sold to guests and locals alike. \nAccommodations typically include private bedrooms, and sometimes apartments, available for either short or long term rent. Linens and towels are usually provided, unless it is a long term apartment rental in which case the guest is considered a resident and does not receive cleaning and other services. Guests sometimes share a common bathroom, but a number of rooms with en suite bathrooms may also be available. \n\nHostales are common in Spain and are also found in Mexico, Central and South America and California. They are often family-run, independent businesses, with a strong involvement with the local community. \n\n\"Hostal-residencias\" are the same as hostales, but generally without a cafetería or other place where guests can eat.\n\nThough the word \"hostal\" is similar to \"hostel\", the two words refer to different types of accommodation. \"Hostels\" refers to properties that offer shared accommodation, typically in dormitories, while \"hostal\" refers to a type of family-run pension typically common only in Spain and a few other Spanish-speaking countries.\n\nIn Mexico, hostal is just the Spanish word for hostel: A cheap hotel-like accommodation that will normally have one or two dormitory rooms with bunk beds and a few individual or shared with other rooms. They are ideal for backpackers, youth, and those with little funds for accommodations. Some regular hotels will however add the word hostal to their names to try to increase business.\n\nHostals are classified from one to three stars, contrary from hostels, which are not classified under the star rating, and from hotels which are classified from one to five stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948370", "title": "Ultima: Worlds of Adventure 2: Martian Dreams", "text": "Ultima: Worlds of Adventure 2: Martian Dreams\n\nUltima: Worlds of Adventure 2: Martian Dreams is a role-playing video game set in the Ultima series, published in 1991, and re-released for Windows and Mac OS via GOG.com in 2012. It uses the same engine as \"\", as did the first Worlds of Ultima game, \"\".\n\nThe game has an extensive cast of Victorian Era people, including Marie Curie, Buffalo Bill, Rasputin, Sigmund Freud, Sarah Bernhardt, Thomas Edison, Theodore Roosevelt, William Randolph Hearst, Andrew Carnegie, Nikola Tesla, and C. L. Blood.\n\nAfter the events in the \"\", the Avatar is visited by a strange red-haired woman who gives a book to him and his friend Dr. Spector. The book will eventually be written by Spector himself, and explains how to use the Orb of the Moons to travel through time. Following instructions, the duo ends up in the Victorian Era, where Percival Lowell has set up a space cannon that will launch some volunteers to Mars.\n\nThrough an act of sabotage, the cannon is fired during the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, with several dozen famous people and leaders of the time on board. A second cannon is prepared to find and recover the people in the first, who are now stranded on Mars.\n\nIt turns out that Mars had an extensive civilization based on plants. Most monsters the player encounters are so-called \"plantimals\", such as the Jumping Bean and the Planther. Mars has cities and canals, although the civilization is in ruins, so the player's first tasks are restoring the world power station, and melting enough of the polar caps (with a solar lens) to fill the canals.\n\nSome of the people appear to have gone insane after using a device called the Dream Machine. What in fact happened was that, after massive soil poisoning, the original Martians had gone into a sort of alternate dimension called \"dreamspace\" to preserve themselves. Those people using the Dream Machine found themselves trapped in dreamspace, while the Martians took over their bodies. A large part of the game is spent visiting various people's nightmares and clearing them up.\n\nEventually, robotic bodies can be created for the Martians, since their plantamal bodies won't grow. After a showdown with the evil Raxachk, who caused the soil pollution in the first place, all Victorians can once more go home.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\"s Scorpia in 1991 liked \"Martian Dreams\"s Victorian setting, but criticized travel as \"tedious\". The magazine stated that the game was really an adventure pretending to be an RPG, with combat almost completely disassociated from the story, and concluded that it would most appeal to those who prefer other activities to fighting. Peter Olafson was more positive, calling it \"an epic adventure ... that has all the depth and complexity of the Ultima series\" while accessible to new adventurers. A review by Scorpia in 1993 was also positive, approving of the storyline. She concluded that \"the game requires patience and careful attention to detail, but is otherwise enjoyable\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1948381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948381", "title": "Giuseppe Morello", "text": "Giuseppe Morello\n\nGiuseppe \"the Clutch Hand\" Morello (; May 2, 1867 – August 15, 1930), also known as \"The Old Fox\", was the first boss of the Morello crime family and later top adviser to Giuseppe \"Joe the Boss\" Masseria. He was known as \"Piddu\" (Sicilian diminutive form of Giuseppe) and his rivals the Castellammarese knew him as Peter Morello. He was famous for having a one-fingered deformed right hand that resembled a claw.\n\nIn the 1890s, Giuseppe founded a gang known as the 107th Street Mob, which would later evolve into the Morello crime family. Today the Morello crime family is known as the Genovese crime family and is the oldest of the Five Families in New York City.\n\nGiuseppe Morello was born in Corleone, Sicily on May 2, 1867. His father Calogero Morello died in 1872 and his mother Angelina Piazza remarried one year later to Bernardo Terranova, who was a member of the Corleone Mafia. Bernardo and Angelina had seven known children: two sons named Vincenzo (the first, born in 1874, died at age two; the second was born in 1886), Ciro (born 1888), Nicolò (born 1890), Lucia (born 1877) Salvatrice (born 1880), and Rosalia (born 1892-died October 14, 1915). The Morello and Terranova children grew up together and Bernardo may have facilitated Giuseppe's early induction into the local \"cosca\", or Mafia clan. Crichley notes that Morello also had an uncle, Giuseppe Battaglia, who was a leader in the Corleonesi Mafia and who may have assisted in his nephew's passage. Giuseppe Morello married Maria Rosa Marsalisi (1867-1898) in 1889; the couple had two children: a daughter, Angela (born 1891 and died 1892), died in infancy and a son, Calogero \"Charles\" Morello (born November 1892 in Corleone-died 1912).\n\nThe exact year of Morello's emigration to the United States is not certain. Dash writes that Morello emigrated in 1892 after becoming a suspect in a murder in Corleone and after his counterfeiting ring had been compromised. Despite his departure the Italian government brought a case to court and found him guilty of money counterfeiting. On September 14, 1894, he was sentenced to 6 years and 45 days imprisonment plus a fine and deprived of the right to hold public office. It is possible that the sentence was handed down \"in absentia\"; according to Critchley it appears that Morello left Sicily for New York around this time.\n\nMorello's three half brothers Nicolò, Vincenzo and Ciro, his stepfather Bernardo, his mother Angelina, his sister Maria, his half sister Rosalia, his wife Maria Rosa Marsalisi and son Calogero would arrive in New York City on March 8, 1893. In the mid-1890s, Giuseppe Morello moved to Louisiana in search for employment and was joined by the other members of the Morello-Terranova family. The following year they moved to Texas and farmed cotton. After contracting malaria they returned to New York about 1897. Morello tried his hand in different business ventures, including failed investments in a saloon and a date factory. \nMorello's first wife, Maria Rosa Marsalisi, died in 1898 in Corleone.In 1902, he acquired a saloon at 8 Prince Street in Manhattan which was to become a meeting place for members of his gang. In December 1903, Morello married Nicolina \"Lena\" Salemi (1884-1967), who stayed with him for the rest of his life.\n\nIn the 1890s, Giuseppe founded the 107th Street Mob which would later evolve into the Morello crime family. In 1903, Ignazio \"the Wolf\" Lupo, the Sicilian Mafia boss in Little Italy, Manhattan, married Morello's half sister Salvatrice.\n\nMorello built his empire based on his merciless ordering of death sentences against everyone who dared to face him. Lupo, his main enforcer, was responsible for more than sixty murders in a 10-year period. The Morello family would frequently employ the notorious barrel murder system, dumping dismembered corpses into large wood barrels. The barrels would then be thrown into the sea, left on a random street corner, abandoned in a back alley or shipped to nonexistent addresses in another city.\n\nFamily businesses included extortion, loan sharking, Italian lottery, robbery and counterfeiting. Illegally earned money was then legitimized by legal businesses such as stores or restaurants owned by the family, making them the first crime family in town to organize this kind of money laundering. They also introduced revolutionary ways of extorting small amounts of money every week from business owners in exchange for \"protection\", as opposed to the theft of large amounts which might bankrupt them. This technique was adopted from Black Hand gangsters and it led to increased profits for the gang.\n\nTwo members of Morello's famiglia who became Captains under Morello and who later gained much prominence in the New York underworld were Giuseppe Masseria and Salvatore D'Aquila.\n\nBy 1905, Morello had created the largest, most influential Sicilian crime family in New York City and was recognized as \"capo di tutti capi\" (boss of bosses) by Mafia leaders in other U.S. cities, according to Nicola Gentile.\n\nMorello was found guilty of counterfeiting again in 1910 and was sentenced to 25 years in prison. He was later paroled. In 1922, President Warren Harding freed Morello from the constraints of his parole by granting a conditional commutation of sentence.\n\nThe youngest of his three half brothers, Nicolo Terranova, took over control until 1916, when he was killed by the Neapolitan boss in Brooklyn, Pellegrino Morano, as well as Tony Parretti as part of the Mafia–Camorra War. Morello's remaining two half brothers Vincenzo Terranova and Ciro Terranova, took over as boss and underboss and ran the family until Morello's release from prison.\n\nNewly released from Atlanta Federal Penitentiary in 1920 and trying to retake control of his empire, Morello found himself considered a threat to his former captain, now turned Mafia boss, Salvatore D'Aquila, who, within a year of Morello's release, ordered Morello killed. \n\nMorello, along with a number of others now under orders of death by D'Aquila, fled to Sicily for a spell. One of these men, a former D'Aquila gunman, Umberto Valenti, went after Morello and his chief protector and ally, Giuseppe Masseria, in order to regain the favor of D'Aquila.\nA war ensued and, after much violence and some prominent deaths among the mafiosi involved, Valenti was killed by Masseria gunmen (some say including or solely Charles Luciano) in August 1922. With Valenti gone, D'Aquila's power began to lose its luster of invulnerability. Morello, sensing his time to rule had passed and the power of Masseria was on the rise, became consigliere to Masseria and prospered under him throughout the Prohibition years of the 1920s.\n\nDuring the Castellammarese War, between 1930 and 1931, Masseria and Morello fought against a rival group based in Brooklyn, led by Salvatore Maranzano and Joseph Bonanno. Morello, an old hand in the killing game, became Masseria's \"war chief\" and strategic adviser.\n\nOne of the first victims of the war, Giuseppe Morello was killed along with associate Joseph Perriano on August 15, 1930 while collecting cash receipts in his East Harlem office. Joseph Valachi, the first made man in the American Mafia to turn state's evidence, identified Morello's killer as a Castellammarese gunman he knew as \"Buster from Chicago\".\n\nFilmmaker Martin A. Gosch's \"The Last Testament of Lucky Luciano\", a purported autobiographical account of Charles Luciano of disputed authenticity, claims that Luciano orchestrated Morello's murder himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948382", "title": "Ovamboland", "text": "Ovamboland\n\nOvamboland (also: \"Owamboland\") is a region of Namibia. It is generally defined as the northernmost segment of the country which straddles the border between Namibia and Angola. Ovamboland is the most densely populated region in Namibia.\n\nThe term originally referred to the parts of northern Namibia inhabited by the Ovambo ethnic group, namely the area controlled by the traditional Ovambo kingdoms in pre-colonial and early colonial times, such as Ondonga, Ongandjera, and Oukwanyama. Its endonym is \"Ovambo ~ Owambo\".\n\nBefore the First World War, some infrastructure in the area was provided by local Finnish missionaries of the Finnish Missionary Society, who established Ovamboland as their first mission field in 1870, the first mission being at Omandongo.\n\nDuring the First World War, South African troops conquered the German colony of South West Africa in 1915, and took control of Ovamboland in 1917, though it still lay outside the \"police zone\".\n\nFollowing the Odendaal Commission in the 1950s the South African government decided to apply the apartheid policy in South West Africa, which South Africa continued to rule in terms of a League of Nations mandate, and continued to do so after the mandate was revoked in 1968. \n\nOvamboland then became a bantustan called Owambo, intended by the apartheid government to be a self-governing \"homeland\" for the Ovambo people. It was set up in 1968 and self-government was granted in 1973.\n\nOwambo was the setting of a protracted insurgency waged by the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN) during the South African Border War.\n\nOwambo, like other homelands in South West Africa, was abolished in May 1989 at the start of the transition to independence. The region is now commonly referred to as The North but the term \"Ovamboland\" is still in use.\nMore than half of the entire population lives here on just 6% of the Namibian territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948386", "title": "Satpura Tiger Reserve", "text": "Satpura Tiger Reserve\n\nSatpura Tiger Reserve (STR) also known as Satpura National Park is located in the Hoshangabad district of Madhya Pradesh in India. Its name is derived from the Satpura range. It covers an area of . Satpura National Park, along with the adjoining Bori and Pachmarhi wildlife sanctuaries, provides of unique central Indian highland ecosystem. It was set up in 1981.\n\nThe terrain of the national park is extremely rugged and consists of sandstone peaks, narrow gorges, ravines and dense forests. The altitude ranges from . It has Dhoopgarh peak as high as and the almost level plains of Churna.\n\nThe nearest town to the national park is Pachmarhi and the nearest rail-head is Piparia away. The state capital Bhopal is away.\n\nSatpura National Park is rich in biodiversity. The animals here include leopard, sambar, chital, Indian muntjac, nilgai, four-horned antelope, Chinkara, wild boar, bear, black buck, fox, porcupine, flying squirrel, mouse deer, and Indian giant squirrel. There are a variety of birds. Hornbills and peafowl are common birds found here. The flora consists of mainly sal, teak, tendu, Phyllanthus emblica, mahua, bel, bamboo, and grasses and medicinal plants.\n\nIn previous years, there have been sightings of tigers, dholes, Indian gaur and barasingha, although these are rare.\nIts name is derived from the Satpura Range. Satpura is a Sanskrit word, that means seven mountains (sapta – seven and pura – mountain). It was first explored by Captain James Forsyth of Bengal Lancers in 1862 while he was searching for Indian Freedom Fighter Tantya Tope. It is one of the first decleared Reserved Forest Area of India due to its ecological and commercial importance. It was. Further It was notified as Tiger Reserve in the year 2000 thus also called Satpura Tiger Reserve (STR).\n\nSatpura National Park, with inclusion of Pachmarhi & Bori Sanctuaries, Satpura Tiger Reserve it covers 1427 km of Hoshangabad and Chhindwara Districts of Madhya Pradesh.\n\nSatpura Tiger Reserve is a part of a rich Central Indian forest ecosystem thus quite rich in biodiversity. Satpura Tiger Reserve has over 1300 species of plants which comprises teak, Sal, tendu, mahua (Indian butter-tree), bel (stone-apple), bamboos, grasses etc. Satpura Tiger Reserve has more than 62 trees species, 30 small tree species, 58 shrubs species,32 climber species and almost 64 grass species with important medicinal plants and endemic rare herbs. Many rare and endemic plant especially Bryophytes and Pteridophytes includes Psilotum, Cyathea, Osmunda, Lycopodium, Lygodium etc. Saal is the most prominent flora of the National Park which is mainly found in the Pachmarhi plateau area of tiger reserve whereas lower plains on the northern side of the park mainly consist of teak forest on basaltic traps. Many species like Melastoma Malabthricum, Murraya paniculata, Holmskioldia senguines, Blumea Lanceolaria, Sophora interrupta are only found in Satpura Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh.\n\nSatpura Tiger Reserve has about 10% of the area which is classified as grasslands including natural blanks on Pachmarhi plateau, anthropogenic grassland due to relocation of villages and draw down areas of Tawa reservoir. These grasslands are named as Neemghan, Madai, Keria, Dhain, Geetkheda. In addition to these, some of the new grasslands have been created by relocation of 23 villages from the core area of the reserve. Mostly, all the available grasslands are of anthropogenic origin and are subjected to agriculture, grazing etc. therefore if these grasslands are not manipulated, they will be invaded by woody plants and eventually disappear. High degree of protection and maintenance is done for these grasslands to support a size-able population of herbivores which are dependent on them by the Satpura Tiger Reserve administration.\n\nSatpura national park, along with its surrounding buffer-zone area have a large and diversified population of wildlife which are rarely seen in other national parks. This forest area is unique in its ecosystem and have a long history of wildlife conservation which is evident from the list of wildlife species currently present. The fauna of Satpura National Park is a stunning jungle treat for wildlife enthusiasts as we can find about 50 species of mammals, 254 species of birds, 30 species of reptiles, 50 species of butterflies here. Beautiful birds species including Malabar whistling Thrush, Paradise Fly-catcher, Honey Buzzard, Malabar pied Hornbill etc. are present in large numbers. There is presence of wide variety of flower species and moist conditions thus are ideal conditions for various butterfly species to flourish like Oakleaf, Black Rajah, Great Eggfly, Blue Pancy etc.Along with birds and butterflies its fauna comprises Spotted Deer, Indian Bison (Gaur), Tigers, Leopards, Wild boar, Wild dog (locally called Dholes), Sloth bear, Black buck (unique attraction), Porcupine, Sambhar, Barasingha, four Horned antelopes (Chowsingha), Pangolin, Marsh crocodile, Languars etc. There are about 14 species of endangered mammals and reptiles in the Satpura Tiger reserve. Indian Giant squirrel is one of the special feature of Satpura Tiger Reserve as it is rare in India now. Some of the species like Indian giant squirrels, Flying squirrels, Rhesus monkeys are endemic to the Central India. \n\nSatpura national park lies in Central India where moderate weather conditions prevails. Summer season prevails from March to June and during this time temperature reaches 30 °C in morning hours and 40 °C in day-time. May and June months are of peak summer time with heat waves but in higher regions the temperature remains low. Monsoon arrives in July month and lasts till September or October months. The average rainfall in the region is about 1300–1700 mm. Denwa river is the main water source of the park and Tawa dam has been built on this rivers. Its large encatchment area influences the climatic condition of national park. Winter season can be experienced from November to February during which temperature dips to 4 °C in morning hours around Pachmarhi Plateau and 15 °C in daytime. The lowest temperature is recorded as low as 1 degree in Pachmarhi. The winters are generally bright and cloudless with light showers in early November.\n\nPandav Caves: A landmark in Satpura National Park is Pandav Caves which lend their name to the present hill station Pachmarhi of Madhya Pradesh. In line with native legends and popular beliefs, the Pandav brothers of religious text of Mahabharat, along with their wife 'Draupadi', spent some part of their exile here. 5 Ancient caves are carved out on a sandstone rock in the hills of satpura which forms the famous Pandav Caves.\n\nDhoopgarh Peak: Mount Dhoopgarh is the highest peak of Satpura Mountain Range of Central India and of Madhya Pradesh. It is located near the Pachmarhi in the forests of Satpura having an elevation of 1352 metres (4429 ft).\n\nBee Falls: Bee Falls is a waterfall located in Satpura National Park in Madhya Pradesh. There are many waterfalls located in Pachmarhi but Bee fall is most popular among tourists. It is a natural perennial water stream falling into 35 meters deep valley inside deep forest.\n\nDenwa Backwaters: Reservoir formed by Dam built on Denwa River. It is surrounded by the Satpura National Park thus while boating in Denwa Backwaters visitors can see crocodiles and migratory bird sightings.\n\nShri Nagdwar Swami Temple: Shri Nagdwar Swami Temple is situated in the midst of Satpura National Park also known as Padmshesh Mandir.\n\nRock Paintings: Satpura Tiger Reserve is important from view point of archaeology. There are more than 50 Rock Shelters which have rock paintings depicting various animals like elephants, tigers, deers, and porcupines. These paintings are about 1500 to 10000 years old and helpful in study of human evolution history in this area.\n\nThe nearest airport is in Bhopal, about 190 km away. The railway station is at Itarsi, about 50 km away, is the biggest railway junction of Central India; several other stations like Narsinghpur and Pipariya are within this radius. The reserve is near to Pachmarhi hill station, which is easily accessible via road from the major cities like Jabalpur, Narsinghpur, Chindwara, Bhopal, and Nagpur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948417", "title": "Microsoft Jet Database Engine", "text": "Microsoft Jet Database Engine\n\nThe Microsoft Jet Database Engine (also \"Microsoft JET Engine\" or simply \"Jet\") is a database engine on which several Microsoft products have been built. The first version of Jet was developed in 1992, consisting of three modules which could be used to manipulate a database.\n\nJET stands for \"Joint Engine Technology\". Microsoft Access and Visual Basic use or have used Jet as their underlying database engine. However, it has been superseded for general use, first by Microsoft Desktop Engine (MSDE), then later by SQL Server Express. For larger database needs, Jet databases can be upgraded (or, in Microsoft parlance, \"up-sized\") to Microsoft's flagship SQL Server database product.\n\nA five billion record MS Jet (Red) database with compression and encryption turned on requires about one terabyte of disk storage space, being composed of hundreds of (*.mdb) files, each acting as partial table, and not as a database in itself.\n\nJet, being part of a relational database management system (RDBMS), allows the manipulation of relational databases. It offers a single interface that other software can use to access Microsoft databases and provides support for security, referential integrity, transaction processing, indexing, record and page locking, and data replication. In later versions, the engine has been extended to run SQL queries, store character data in Unicode format, create database views and allow bi-directional replication with Microsoft SQL Server.\nThere are three modules to Jet: One is the \"Native Jet ISAM Driver\", a dynamic link library (DLL) that can directly manipulate Microsoft Access database files (MDB) using a (random access) file system API. Another one of the modules contains the \"ISAM Drivers\", DLLs that allow access to a variety of Indexed Sequential Access Method ISAM databases, among them xBase, Paradox, Btrieve and FoxPro, depending on the version of Jet. The final module is the \"Data Access Objects\" (DAO) DLL. DAO provides an API that allows programmers to access JET databases using any programming language.\n\nJet allows multiple users to access the database concurrently. To prevent that data from being corrupted or invalidated when multiple users try to edit the same record or page of the database, Jet employs a locking policy. Any single user can modify only those database records (that is, items in the database) to which the user has applied a lock, which gives exclusive access to the record until the lock is released. In Jet versions before version 4, a page locking model is used, and in Jet 4, a record locking model is employed. Microsoft databases are organized into data \"pages\", which are fixed-length (2 kB before Jet 4, 4 kB in Jet 4) data structures. Data is stored in \"records\" of variable length that may take up less or more than one page. The page locking model works by locking the pages, instead of individual records, which though less resource-intensive also means that when a user locks one record, all other records on the same page are collaterally locked. As a result, no other user can access the collaterally locked records, even though no user is accessing them and there is no need for them to be locked. In Jet 4, the record locking model eliminates collateral locks, so that every record that is not in use is available.\n\nThere are two mechanisms that Microsoft uses for locking: \"pessimistic locking\", and \"optimistic locking\". With pessimistic locking, the record or page is locked immediately when the lock is requested, while with optimistic locking, the locking is delayed until the edited record is saved. Conflicts are less likely to occur with optimistic locking, since the record is locked only for a short period of time. However, with optimistic locking one cannot be certain that the update will succeed because another user could lock the record first. With pessimistic locking, the update is guaranteed to succeed once the lock is obtained. Other users must wait until the lock is released in order to make their changes. Lock conflicts, which either require the user to wait, or cause the request to fail (usually after a timeout) are more common with pessimistic locking.\n\nJet supports transaction processing for database systems that have this capability. (ODBC systems have one-level transaction processing, while several ISAM systems like Paradox do not support transaction processing.) A transaction is a series of operations performed on a database that must be done together — this is known as atomicity and is one of the ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability), concepts considered to be the key transaction processing features of a database management system. For transaction processing to work (until Jet 3.0), the programmer needed to begin the transaction manually, perform the operations needed to be performed in the transaction, and then commit (save) the transaction. Until the transaction is committed, changes are made only in memory and not actually written to disk. Transactions have a number of advantages over independent database updates. One of the main advantages is that transactions can be abandoned if a problem occurs during the transaction. This is called rolling back the transaction, or just rollback, and it restores the state of the database records to precisely the state before the transaction began. Transactions also permit the state of the database to remain consistent if a system failure occurs in the middle of a sequence of updates required to be atomic. There is no chance that only some of the updates will end up written to the database; either all will succeed, or the changes will be discarded when the database system restarts. With ODBC's in-memory policy, transactions also allow for many updates to a record to occur entirely within memory, with only one expensive disk write at the end.\n\nImplicit transactions were supported in Jet 3.0. These are transactions that are started automatically after the last transaction was committed to the database. Implicit transactions in Jet occurred when an SQL DML statement was issued. However, it was found that this had a negative performance impact in 32-bit Windows (Windows 95, Windows 98), so in Jet 3.5 Microsoft removed implicit transactions when SQL DML statements were made.\n\nJet enforces entity integrity and referential integrity. Jet will by default prevent any change to a record that breaks referential integrity, but Jet databases can instead use propagation constraints (cascading updates and cascading deletes) to maintain referential integrity.\n\nJet also supports \"business rules\" (also known as \"constraints\"), or rules that apply to any column to enforce what data might be placed into the table or column. For example, a rule might be applied that does not allow a date to be entered into a date_logged column that is earlier than the current date and time, or a rule might be applied that forces people to enter a positive value into a numeric only field.\n\nAccess to Jet databases is done on a per user-level. The user information is kept in a separate system database, and access is controlled on each object in the system (for instance by table or by query). In Jet 4, Microsoft implemented functionality that allows database administrators to set security via the SQL commands CREATE, ADD, ALTER, DROP USER and DROP GROUP. These commands are a subset of ANSI SQL 92 standard, and they also apply to the GRANT/REVOKE commands. When Jet 2 was released, security could also be set programmatically through DAO.\n\nQueries are the mechanisms that Jet uses to retrieve data from the database. They can be defined in Microsoft QBE (Query By Example), through the Microsoft Access SQL Window or through Access Basic's Data Access Objects (DAO) language. These are then converted to an SQL SELECT statement. The query is then compiled — this involves parsing the query (involves syntax checking and determining the columns to query in the database table), then converted into an internal Jet query object format, which is then tokenized and organised into a tree like structure. In Jet 3.0 onwards these are then optimised using the Microsoft Rushmore query optimisation technology. The query is then executed and the results passed back to the application or user who requested the data.\n\nJet passes the data retrieved for the query in a dynaset. This is a set of data that is dynamically linked back to the database. Instead of having the query result stored in a temporary table, where the data cannot be updated directly by the user, the dynaset allows the user to view and update the data contained in the dynaset. Thus, if a university lecturer queries all students who received a distinction in their assignment and finds an error in that student's record, they would only need to update the data in the dynaset, which would automatically update the student's database record without the need for them to send a specific update query after storing the query results in a temporary table.\n\nJet originally started in 1992 as an underlying data access technology that came from a Microsoft internal database product development project, code named Cirrus. Cirrus was developed from a pre-release version of Visual Basic code and was used as the database engine of Microsoft Access. Tony Goodhew, who worked for Microsoft at the time, says\n\"It would be reasonably accurate to say that up until that stage Jet was more the name of the team that was assigned to work on the DB engine modules of Access rather than a component team. For VB [Visual Basic] 3.0 they basically had to tear it out of Access and graft it onto VB. That's why they've had all those Jet/ODBC problems in VB 3.0.\"\n\nJet became more componentised when Access 2.0 was released because the Access ODBC developers used parts of the Jet code to produce the ODBC driver. A retrofit was provided that allowed Visual Basic 3.0 users to use the updated Jet issued in Access 2.0.\n\nJet 2.0 was released as several dynamic linked libraries (DLLs) that were utilised by application software, such as Microsoft's Access database. DLLs in Windows are \"libraries\" of common code that can be used by more than one application—by keeping code that more than one application uses under a common library which each of these applications can use independently code maintenance is reduced and the functionality of applications increases, with less development effort. Jet 2.0 comprised three DLLs: the Jet DLL, the Data Access Objects (DAO) DLL and several external ISAM DLLs. The Jet DLL determined what sort of database it was accessing, and how to perform what was requested of it. If the data source was an MDB file (a Microsoft Access format) then it would directly read and write the data to the file. If the data source was external, then it would call on the correct ODBC driver to perform its request. The DAO DLL was a component that programmers could use to interface with the Jet engine, and was mainly used by Visual Basic and Access Basic programmers. The ISAM DLLs were a set of modules that allowed Jet to access three ISAM based databases: xBase, Paradox and Btrieve. Jet 2.0 was replaced with Jet 2.1, which used the same database structure but different locking strategies, making it incompatible with Jet 2.0.\n\nJet 3.0 included many enhancements, including a new index structure that reduced storage size and the time that was taken to create indices that were highly duplicated, the removal of read locks on index pages, a new mechanism for page reuse, a new compacting method for which compacting the database resulted in the indices being stored in a clustered-index format, a new page allocation mechanism to improve Jet's read-ahead capabilities, improved delete operations that speeded processing, multithreading (three threads were used to perform read ahead, write behind, and cache maintenance), implicit transactions (users did not have to instruct the engine to start manually and commit transactions to the database), a new sort engine, long values (such as memos or binary data types) were stored in separate tables, and dynamic buffering (whereby Jet's cache was dynamically allocated at start up and had no limit and which changed from a first in, first out (FIFO) buffer replacement policy to a least recently used (LRU) buffer replacement policy). Jet 3.0 also allowed for database replication.\nJet 3.0 was replaced by Jet 3.5, which uses the same database structure, but different locking strategies, making it incompatible with Jet 3.0.\n\nJet 4.0 gained numerous additional features and enhancements.\n\n\nMicrosoft Access versions from Access 2000 to Access 2010 included an \"Upsizing Wizard\" which could \"upsize\" (upgrade) a Jet database to \"an equivalent database on SQL Server with the same table structure, data, and many other attributes of the original database\". Reports, queries, macros and security were not handled by this tool, meaning that some manual modifications might have been needed if the application was heavily reliant on these Jet features.\n\nA standalone version of the Jet 4 database engine was a component of Microsoft Data Access Components (MDAC), and was included in every version of Windows from Windows 2000 on. The Jet database engine was only 32-bit and did not run natively under 64-bit versions of Windows. This meant that native 64-bit applications (such as the 64-bit versions of SQL Server) could not access data stored in MDB files through ODBC, OLE DB, or any other means, except through intermediate 32-bit software (running in WoW64) that acted as a proxy for the 64-bit client.\n\nWith version 2007 onwards, Access includes an Office-specific version of Jet, initially called the \"Office Access Connectivity Engine\" (ACE), but which is now called the \"Access Database Engine\" (However MS-Access consultants and VBA developers who specialize in MS-Access are more likely to refer to it as \"the ACE Database Engine\"). This engine was backward-compatible with previous versions of the Jet engine, so it could read and write (.mdb) files from earlier Access versions. It introduced a new default file format, (.accdb), that brought several improvements to Access, including complex data types such as multivalue fields, the attachment data type and history tracking in memo fields. It also brought security changes and encryption improvements and enabled integration with Microsoft Windows SharePoint Services 3.0 and Microsoft Office Outlook 2007.\n\nThe engine in Microsoft Access 2010 discontinued support for Access 1.0, Access 2.0, Lotus 1-2-3 and Paradox files. A 64-bit version of Access 2010 and its ACE Driver/Provider was introduced, which in essence provides a 64-bit version of Jet. The driver is not part of the Windows operating system, but is available as a redistributable.\n\nThe engine in Microsoft Access 2013 discontinued support for Access 95, Access 97 and xBase files, and it also discontinued support for replication. \n\nVersion 1608 of Microsoft Access 2016 restored support for xBase files, and Version 1703 introduced a Large Number data type.\n\nFrom a data access technology standpoint, Jet is considered a deprecated technology by Microsoft, but Microsoft continues to support ACE as part of Microsoft Access.\n\nMicrosoft provides the JET drivers only for Microsoft Windows. Therefore, third party software support for JET databases is almost exclusively found on Windows.\nThere is an open source project that attempts to enable working with JET databases on other platforms, MDB Tools and its much extended Java port named Jackcess.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948420", "title": "Clematis recta", "text": "Clematis recta\n\nClematis recta, the erect clematis or ground virginsbower, is a species of \"Clematis\" unusual in that it is a free-standing shrub rather than a climbing plant. Growing usually on the margins of woodland areas, it is native to Eastern, Southern and Central Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948421", "title": "Seeder", "text": "Seeder\n\nA seeder is a stamp-type leatherworking tool used in leather carving. It is predominantly used in floral designs to represent the seeds in the center of a flower, hence the name. Similar to other stamp-type tools, it is held vertically over the leather and struck with a wooden or rawhide mallet to create an impression in the surface of the leather. The seeder creates a small circular impression, often similar to the asterisk symbol (*) with a hole in the middle.\n"}
{"id": "1948425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948425", "title": "IKC", "text": "IKC\n\nIKC may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1948426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948426", "title": "Religiosity and intelligence", "text": "Religiosity and intelligence\n\nThe study of religiosity and intelligence explores the link between religiosity and issues related to intelligence and educational level (by country and on the individual level). Religiosity and intelligence are both complex topics that include diverse variables, and the interactions among variables are not always well understood. For instance, intelligence is often defined differently by different researchers and also all scores from intelligence tests are only estimates of intelligence because concrete measurements, like those of mass or distance, cannot be achieved given the abstract nature of the concept of \"intelligence\". Religiosity is also complex in that it involves wide variations of interactions of religious beliefs, practices, behaviors, and affiliations in diverse cultures.\n\nA meta-analysis and an updated analysis by the same research group have found a measurable negative correlation between intelligence quotient (IQ) and religiosity. The correlation was suggested to be a result of nonconformity, more cognitive and less intuitive thinking styles among the less religious, and less of a need for religion as a coping mechanism. Some studies have shown a correlation between national average IQ and levels of atheism in society, although others have questioned whether any correlations are due to a complex range of social, economic, educational and historical factors, which interact with religion and IQ in different ways. Less developed and poorer countries tend to be more religious, perhaps because religions play a more active social, moral and cultural role in those countries.\n\nOne study suggests that intuitive thinking may be one out of many sources that affect levels of religiosity and that analytical thinking may be one out of many sources that affect disbelief. However, others who have reviewed studies on analytic thinking and nonbelievers suggest that analytical thinking does not imply better reflection on religious matters or disbelief.\n\nA global study on educational attainment found that Jews, Christians, religiously unaffiliated persons, and Buddhists have, on average, higher levels of education than the global average. Numerous factors affect both educational attainment and religiosity.\n\nThe definitions of intelligence are controversial since at least 70 definitions have been found among diverse fields of research. Some groups of psychologists have suggested the following definitions: \nFrom \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence\" (1994), an op-ed statement in the Wall Street Journal signed by fifty-two researchers (out of 131 total invited to sign). \nFrom \"\" (1995), a report published by the Board of Scientific Affairs of the American Psychological Association:\nIntelligence is a property of the mind that encompasses many related abilities, such as the capacities to reason, to plan, to solve problems, to think abstractly, to comprehend ideas, to use language, and to learn. There are several ways to more specifically define intelligence. In some cases, intelligence may include traits such as creativity, personality, character, knowledge, or wisdom. However, some psychologists prefer not to include these traits in the definition of intelligence.\n\nA widely researched index or classification of intelligence among scientists is intelligence quotient (IQ). IQ is a summary index, calculated by testing individuals' abilities in a variety of tasks and producing a composite score to represent overall ability, e.g., Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. It is used to predict educational outcomes and other variables of interest.\n\nOthers have attempted to measure intelligence indirectly by looking at individuals' or group's educational attainment, although this risks bias from other demographic factors, such as age, income, gender and cultural background, all of which can affect educational attainment.\n\nDissatisfaction with traditional IQ tests has led to the development of alternative theories. In 1983, Howard Gardner proposed the theory of multiple intelligences, which broadens the conventional definition of intelligence, to include logical, linguistic, spatial, musical, kinesthetic, naturalist, intrapersonal and interpersonal intelligences.\nHe chose not to include spiritual intelligence amongst his \"intelligences\" due to the challenge of codifying quantifiable scientific criteria, but suggested an \"existential intelligence\" as viable.\n\nThe term religiosity refers to degrees of religious behaviour, belief, or spirituality. The measurement of religiosity is hampered by the difficulties involved in defining what is meant by the term. Numerous studies have explored the different components of religiosity, with most finding some distinction between religious beliefs/doctrine, religious practice, and spirituality. Studies can measure religious practice by counting attendance at religious services, religious beliefs/doctrine by asking a few doctrinal questions, and spirituality by asking respondents about their sense of oneness with the divine or through detailed standardized measurements. When religiosity is measured, it is important to specify which aspects of religiosity are referred to.\n\nAccording to Mark Chaves, decades of anthropological, sociological, and psychological research have established that \"religious congruence\" (the assumption that religious beliefs and values are tightly integrated in an individual's mind or that religious practices and behaviors follow directly from religious beliefs or that religious beliefs are chronologically linear and stable across different contexts) is actually rare. People’s religious ideas are fragmented, loosely connected, and context-dependent, as in all other domains of culture and in life. The beliefs, affiliations, and behaviors of any individual are complex activities that have many sources including culture. As examples of religious incongruence he notes, \"Observant Jews may not believe what they say in their Sabbath prayers. Christian ministers may not believe in God. And people who regularly dance for rain don’t do it in the dry season.\"\n\nDemographic studies often show wide diversity of religious beliefs, belonging, and practices in both religious and non-religious populations. For instance, out of Americans who are not religious and not seeking religion, 68% believe in God, 12% are atheists, and 17% are agnostics; as for self-identification of religiosity, 18% consider themselves religious, 37% consider themselves spiritual but not religious, and 42% consider themselves neither spiritual nor religious, while 21% pray every day and 24% pray once a month. Global studies on religion also show diversity.\n\nReligion and belief in gods are not necessarily synonymous since nontheistic religions exist including within traditions like Hinduism and Christianity. According to anthropologist Jack David Eller, \"atheism is quite a common position, even within religion\" and that \"surprisingly, atheism is not the opposite or lack, let alone the enemy, of religion but is the most common form of religion.\"\n\nIn a 2013 meta-analysis of 63 studies, led by professor Miron Zuckerman, a correlation of -.20 to -.25 between religiosity and IQ was particularly strong when assessing beliefs (which in their view reflects intrinsic religiosity), but the negative effects were less defined when behavioral aspects of religion (such as church-going) were examined. They note limitations on this since viewing intrinsic religiosity as being about religious beliefs represents American Protestantism more than Judaism or Catholicism, both of which see behavior as just as important as religious beliefs. They also noted that the available data did not allow adequate consideration of the role of religion type and of culture in assessing the relationship between religion and intelligence. Most of the studies reviewed were American and 87% of participants in those studies were from the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. They noted, \"Clearly, the present results are limited to Western societies.\" The meta-analysis discussed three possible explanations: First, intelligent people are less likely to conform and, thus, are more likely to resist religious dogma, however this theory was contradicted in mostly atheist societies such as the Scandinavian populations, where the religiosity-IQ relationship still existed. Second, intelligent people tend to adopt an analytic (as opposed to intuitive) thinking style, which has been shown to undermine religious beliefs. Third, Intelligent people may have less need for religious beliefs and practices, as some of the functions of religiosity can be given by intelligence instead. Such functions include the presentation of a sense that the world is orderly and predictable, a sense of personal control and self-regulation and a sense of enhancing self-esteem and belongingness.\n\nHowever, a 2016 re-analysis of the Zuckerman et al study, found that the negative intelligence-religiosity associations were weaker and less generalizable across time, space, samples, measures, and levels of analysis, but still robust. For example, the negative intelligence–religiosity association was insignificant with samples using men, pre-college participants, and taking into account grade point average. When other variables like education and quality of human conditions were taken into account, positive relation between IQ and disbelief in God was reduced. According to Dutton and Van der Linden, the re-analysis had controls that were too strict (life quality index and proximity of countries) and also some of the samples used problematic proxies of religiosity, which took away from the variance in the correlations. As such, the reduction of significance in the negative correlation likely reflected a sample anomaly. They also did observe that the \"weak but significant\" correlation of -.20 on intelligence and religiosity from the Zuckerman study was also found when comparing intelligence with other variables like education and income.\n\nResearcher Helmuth Nyborg and Richard Lynn, emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Ulster, compared belief in God and IQs. Using data from a U.S. study of 6,825 adolescents, the authors found that the average IQ of atheists was 6 points higher than the average IQ of non-atheists. The authors also investigated the link between belief in a god and average national IQs in 137 countries. The authors reported a correlation of 0.60 between atheism rates and level of intelligence, which was determined to be \"highly statistically significant\". ('Belief in a god' is not identical to 'religiosity.' Some nations have high proportions of people who do not believe in a god, but who may nevertheless be highly religious, following non-theistic belief systems such as Buddhism or Taoism.)\n\nThe Lynn et al. paper findings were discussed by Professor Gordon Lynch, from London's Birkbeck College, who expressed concern that the study failed to take into account a complex range of social, economic and historical factors, each of which has been shown to interact with religion and IQ in different ways. Gallup surveys, for example, have found that the world's poorest countries are consistently the most religious, perhaps because religion plays a more functional role (helping people cope) in poorer nations. Even at the scale of the individual, IQ may not directly cause more disbelief in gods. Dr. David Hardman of London Metropolitan University says: \"It is very difficult to conduct true experiments that would explicate a causal relationship between IQ and religious belief.\" He adds that other studies do nevertheless correlate IQ with being willing or able to question beliefs.\n\nIn a sample of 2307 adults in the US., IQ was found to negatively correlate with self reports of religious identification, private practice or religion, mindfullness, religious support, and fundamentalism, but not spirituality. The relationships were relatively unchanged after controlling for personality, education, age, and gender, and were typically modest. The study was limited only to Christian denominations.\n\nAccording to biopsychologist Nigel Barber, the differences in national IQ are better explained by social, environmental, and wealth conditions than by levels of religiosity. He acknowledges that highly intelligent people have been both religious and nonreligious. He notes that countries with more wealth and better resources tend to have higher levels of non-theists and countries that have less wealth and resources tend to have fewer non-theists. For instance, countries that have poverty, low urbanization, lower levels of education, less exposure to electronic media that increase intelligence, higher incidence of diseases that impair brain function, low birth weights, child malnutrition, and poor control of pollutants like lead have more factors that reduce brain and IQ development than do wealthier or more developed countries.\n\nA critical review of the research on intelligence and religiosity by Sickles et al. observed that conclusions vary widely in the literature because most studies use inconsistent and poor measures for both religiosity and intelligence. Furthermore, they noted intelligence differences seen between people of varying religious beliefs and non-theists is most likely the result of educational differences that are in turn the result of holding fundamentalist religious beliefs rather than the result of innate differences in intelligence between them.\n\nThe idea that analytical thinking makes one less likely to be religious is an idea supported by some studies on this issue, Harvard researchers found evidence suggesting that all religious beliefs become more confident when participants are thinking intuitively (atheists and theists each become more convinced). Thus generally tends to create more qualified, doubted belief.\n\nThe study found that participants who tended to think more reflectively were less likely to believe in a god. Reflective thinking was further correlated with greater changes in beliefs since childhood: these changes were towards atheism for the most reflective participants, and towards greater belief in a god for the most intuitive thinkers. The study controlled for personality differences and cognitive ability, suggesting the differences were due to thinking styles – not simply IQ or raw cognitive ability. An experiment in the study found that participants moved towards greater belief in a god after writing essays about how intuition yielded a right answer or reflection yielded a wrong answer (and conversely, towards atheism if primed to think about either a failure of intuition or success of reflection). The authors say it is all evidence that a relevant factor in religious belief is thinking style. The authors add that, even if intuitive thinking tends to increase belief in a god, \"it does not follow that reliance on intuition is always irrational or unjustified.\"\n\nA study by Gervais and Norenzayan\nreached similar conclusions that intuitive thinking tended to increase intrinsic religiosity, intuitive religious belief and belief in supernatural entities. They also added a causative element, finding that subtly triggering analytic thinking can increase religious disbelief. They concluded that \"Combined, these studies indicate that analytic processing is one factor (presumably among several) that promotes religious disbelief.\" While these studies linked religious disbelief to analytical rather than intuitive thinking, they urged caution in the interpretation of these results, noting that they were not judging the relative merits of analytic and intuitive thinking in promoting optimal decision making, or the merits or validity of religiosity as a whole.\n\nA 2017 study re-analyzed the relationship between intuitive and analytical thinking and its correlation with supernatural belief among three measurements (Pilgrimage setting, supernatural attribution, brain stimulation) and found no significant correlation.\n\nReviewing psychological studies on atheists, Miguel Farias noted that studies concluding that analytical thinking leads to lower religious belief \"do not imply that atheists are more conscious or reflective of their own beliefs, or that atheism is the outcome of a conscious refutation of previously held religious beliefs\" since they too have variant beliefs such as in conspiracy theories of the naturalistic variety. He notes that studies on deconversion indicate that a greater proportion of people who leave religion do so for motivational rather than rational reasons, and the majority of deconversions occur in adolescence and young adulthood when one is emotionally volatile. Furthermore, he notes that atheists are indistinguishable from New Age individuals or Gnostics since there are commonalities such as being individualistic, non-conformist, liberal, and valuing hedonism and sensation.\n\nConcerning the cognitive science studies on atheists, Johnathan Lanman notes that there are implicit and explicit beliefs which vary among individuals. An individual's atheism and theism may be related to the amount of \"credibility enhancing displays\" (CRED) one experiences in that those who are exposed more to theistic CRED will likely be theist and those who have less exposure to theistic CRED will likely be atheists.\n\nNeurological research on mechanisms of belief and non-belief, using Christians and atheists as subjects, by Harris et al. have shown that the brain networks involved in evaluating the truthfulness of both religious and non religious statements are generally the same regardless of religiosity. However, the activity within these networks differed across the religiosity of statements, with the religious statements activating the insula and anterior cingulate cortex to a greater degree, and the non religious statements activating hippocampal and superior frontal regions to a greater degree. The areas associated with religious statements are generally associated with salient emotional processing, while areas associated with non religious statements are generally associated with memory. The association between the salience network and religious statements is congruent with the cognitive theory proposed by Boyer that the implausibility of religious propositions are offset by their salience. The same neural networks were active in both Christians and atheists even when dealing with \"blasphemous statements\" to each other's worldviews. Furthermore, it supports the idea that \"intuition\" and \"reason\" are not two separate and segregated activities but are intertwined in both theists and atheists.\n\nA small 2004 study by Ellen Paek examined the extent to which religiosity (in which only Christians were surveyed), operationalized as religious orientation and religious behaviour, is related to the controversial idea of emotional intelligence (EI). The study examined the extent to which religious orientation and behavior were related to self-reported EI in 148 church-attending adult Christians. (Non-religious individuals were not part of the study.) The study found that the individuals' self-reported religious orientation was positively correlated with their perceiving themselves to have greater EI. While the number of religious group activities was positively associated with perceived EI, the number of years of church attendance was unrelated. Significant positive correlations were also found between level of religious commitment and perceived EI. Thus, the Christian volunteers were more likely to consider themselves emotionally intelligent if they spent more time in group activities and had more commitment to their beliefs.\n\nTischler, Biberman and McKeage warn that there is still ambiguity in the above concepts. In their 2002 article, entitled \"Linking emotional intelligence, spirituality and workplace performance: Definitions, models and ideas for research\", they reviewed literature on both EI and various aspect of spirituality. They found that both EI and spirituality appear to lead to similar attitudes, behaviors and skills, and that there often seems to be confusion, intersection and linking between the two constructs.\n\nRecently, Łowicki and Zajenkowski investigated the potential associations between various aspects of religious belief and ability and trait EI. In their first study they found that ability EI was positively correlated with general level of belief in God or a higher power. Their next study, conducted among Polish Christians, replicated the previous result and revealed that both trait and ability EI were negatively related to extrinsic religious orientation and negative religious coping.\n\nThe relationship between the level of religiosity and one's level of education has been a philosophical, as well as a scientific and political concern since the second half of the 20th century.\n\nThe parameters in this field are slightly different compared to those brought forward above: if the \"level of religiosity\" remains a concept which is difficult to determine scientifically, on the contrary, the \"level of education\" is, indeed, easy to compile, official data on this topic being publicly accessible to anyone in most countries.\n\nDifferent studies available show contrasting conclusions. An analysis of World Values Survey data showed that in most countries, there is no significant relationship between education and religious attendance, with some differences between \"Western\" countries and former socialist countries, which the authors attribute to historical, political, and economic factors, not intelligence. Other studies have noted a positive relationship.\n\nA 2016 Pew Center global study on religion and education around the world ranked Jews as the most educated (13.4 years of schooling) followed by Christians (9.3 years of schooling). The religiously unaffiliated—a category which includes atheists, agnostics and those who describe their religion as “nothing in particular”—ranked overall as the third most educated religious group (8.8 years of schooling) followed by Buddhists (7.9 years of schooling), Muslims (5.6 years of schooling), and Hindus (5.6 years of schooling). In the youngest age (25-34) group surveyed, Jews averaged 13.8 years of schooling, the unaffiliated group averaged 10.3 years of schooling, Christians averaged 9.9 years of schooling, Buddhists averaged 9.7 years of schooling, Hindus averaged 7.1 years of schooling, and Muslims averaged 6.7 years of schooling. 61% of Jews, 20% of Christians, 16% of the unaffiliated, 12% of Buddhists, 10% of Hindus, and 8% of Muslims have graduate and post-graduate degrees. The study observed that the probability of having a college degree in the U.S. is higher for all religious minorities surveyed (perhaps partly due to selective immigration policies that favor highly skilled applicants), including the unaffiliated group which ranks in the fifth place, being higher than the national average of 39%.\n\nAccording to a 2016 Pew Center study, there is correlation between education and income in the United States. About 77% of Hindus, 67% to less than the national average (depending on the size of denominational groups) of Christians, 59% of Jews, 47% of Buddhists, 43% of Atheists, 42% of Agnostics, 39% of Muslims, and 24% of those who say their religion is “nothing in particular”; have a graduate and post-graduate degree.\n\nEnvironmental and genetic factors play a role in determining IQ. Their relative importance has been the subject of much research and debate.\n\nMicronutrient deficiencies (e.g. in iodine and iron) influence the development of intelligence and remain a problem in the developing world. For example, iodine deficiency causes a fall, on average, of 12 IQ points.\n\nHeritability is defined as the proportion of variance in a trait which is attributable to genotype within a defined population in a specific environment. A number of points must be considered when interpreting heritability. The general figure for the heritability of IQ, according to an authoritative American Psychological Association report, is 0.45 for children, and rises to around 0.75 for late adolescents and adults. It may seem reasonable to expect genetic influences on traits like IQ to become less important as one gains experiences with age. However, the opposite also could occur. Heritability measures in infancy are as low as 0.2, around 0.4 in middle childhood, and as high as 0.8 in adulthood. One proposed explanation is that people with different alleles tend to reinforce the effects of a particular gene, for example by seeking out different environments.\n\nFamily members have aspects of environments in common (for example, characteristics of the home). This shared family environment accounts for 0.25–0.35 of the variation in IQ in childhood. By late adolescence, it is quite low (zero in some studies). The effect for several other psychological traits is similar. These studies have not looked at the effects of extreme environments, such as in abusive families.\n\nDavid Rowe reported an interaction of genetic effects with socioeconomic status, such that the heritability was high in high-SES families, but much lower in low-SES families. In the US, this has been replicated in infants, children, adolescents, and adults. Outside the US, studies show no link between heritability and SES. Some effects may even reverse sign outside the US.\n\nDickens and Flynn (2001) have argued that genes for high IQ initiate an environment-shaping feedback cycle, with genetic effects causing bright children to seek out more stimulating environments that then further increase their IQ. In Dickens' model, environment effects are modeled as decaying over time. In this model, the Flynn effect can be explained by an increase in environmental stimulation independent of it being sought out by individuals. The authors suggest that programs aiming to increase IQ would be most likely to produce long-term IQ gains if they enduringly raised children's drive to seek out cognitively demanding experiences.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948447", "title": "Gordon Blair (musician)", "text": "Gordon Blair (musician)\n\nGordon Blair (born 1958 in Belfast), usually known as Gordy Blair, is a Northern Irish musician.\n\nBlair started off his musical career as the bass guitarist for Highway Star, the band that was to become Stiff Little Fingers. In 1976 he joined Belfast punk band Rudi, with whom he stayed for three years. After leaving Rudi, he played for The Outcasts, The Trial, Big Self and Ruefrex, lasting for periods of between a year and three years, with each band. Between 1987 and 1997, he spent various periods of time playing bass for Australian outfit Dave Graney and the Coral Snakes, before finally hanging up his bass to concentrate on a new career in desktop publishing.\n"}
{"id": "1948457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948457", "title": "UNICORE", "text": "UNICORE\n\nUNICORE (UNiform Interface to COmputing REsources) is a grid computing technology for resources such as supercomputers or cluster systems and information stored in databases. UNICORE was developed in two projects funded by the German ministry for education and research (BMBF). In European-funded projects UNICORE evolved to a middleware system used at several supercomputer centers. UNICORE served as a basis in other research projects. The UNICORE technology is open source under BSD licence and available at SourceForge.\n\nThe concept of grid computing was first introduced in the book \"The Grid: Blueprint for a New Computing Infrastructure\" at the end of 1998. By 1997, the development of UNICORE was initiated for German supercomputer centers as an alternative for the Globus Toolkit. The first prototype was developed in the German UNICORE project, while the foundations for the production version were laid in the follow-up project UNICORE Plus, which ended in 2002.\n\nFollow-up European projects extended the functionality and worked towards providing implementations of Open Grid Forum standards. These resulted in the release of UNICORE 6 on 28 August 2007.\n\nUNICORE consists of three layers: a user, server, and target system tier. The user tier is represented by various clients.\nThe primary clients are the UNICORE Rich Client, a graphical user interface based on the Eclipse framework, and the UNICORE commandline client (UCC). The clients use SOAP Web services to communicate with the server tier. XML documents are used to transmit platform and site independent descriptions of computational and data related tasks, resource information, and workflow specifications between client and server. The servers are accessible only via the Secure Socket Layer protocol.\n\nAs the single secure entry point to a UNICORE site, the Gateway accepts and authenticates all requests, and forwards them to the target service. \nA further server, UNICORE/X, is used to access a particular set of Grid resources at a site. UNICORE supports many different system architectures and ensures that organization full control over its resources. UNICORE/X servers may be used to access a supercomputer, a Linux cluster or a single PC. \nThe UNICORE/X server creates concrete target system specific actions from the XML job description (Abstract Job Objects, AJO) received from the client. \nAvailable UNICORE services include job submission and job management, file access, file transfer (both client-server and server-server), \nstorage operations (mkdir, ls, etc.), and workflow submission and management.\nThe target system tier consists of the Target System Interface (TSI), which directly interfaces with the underlying local operating system and \nresource management system.\n\nThe security within UNICORE relies on the usage of permanent X.509 certificates issued by a trusted Certification Authority (CA). These certificates are used to provide a single sign-on in the UNICORE client, i.e. no further password requests are handed to the user. In addition the certificates are used for authentication and authorization, including the mapping of UNICORE user certificates to local accounts, e.g. Unix uid/gid, and for signing XML requests, which are sent over SSL based communication channels across 'insecure' internet links. Using X.509 certificates is one example for the consideration of well-known standards, e.g. released by the Global Grid Forum (GGF), within the UNICORE architecture. For trust delegation, UNICORE uses signed SAML assertions, while local authorisation is controlled by XACML policies.\n\nAll components of the UNICORE technology are open source software under BSD license and can be downloaded from the SourceForge repository.\n\nMany European and international research projects base their Grid software implementations on UNICORE, e.g. EUROGRID, GRIP, OpenMolGRID, VIOLA, or the Japanese NaReGI project. These projects extended or are extending the set of core UNICORE functions, including new features specific to their research or project focus. The goals of such projects are not only limited to the computer science community. Other scientific domains such as bioengineering or computational chemistry are also using UNICORE as the basis for their work and research, like in the OpenMolGRID or Chemomentum projects. \nWithin the European DEISA project leading HPC centers in Europe joined to deploy and operate a pervasive, distributed, heterogeneous, multi-tera-scale supercomputing platform. UNICORE was used as the Grid middleware to access the DEISA resources.\n\nUNICORE is deployed in distributed computing infrastructures in Europe (PRACE, the European Grid Infrastructure EGI) and is foreseen to be deployed in the upcoming Extreme Science and Engineering Discovery Environment (XSEDE) infrastructure in the United States.\n\nUNICORE is successfully used in production environments, e.g. within the John von Neumann-Institute for Computing (NIC) to access the 294912 core \"JUGENE\" IBM BlueGene/P supercomputer and the 26304 core \"JUROPA\" cluster. The users of these resources come from a broad field of scientific domains including e.g. astrophysics, quantum physics, medicine, biology, computational chemistry, and climatology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948459", "title": "Stephen Perse Foundation", "text": "Stephen Perse Foundation\n\nThe Stephen Perse Foundation is a family of five independent schools in Cambridge and Saffron Walden for students aged 1 to 18+.\n\nThe Foundation is made up of five schools: the Stephen Perse Pre-Prep in Madingley, for boys and girls aged 3–7; Dame Bradbury's School in Saffron Walden, for boys and girls aged 1–11, Rosedale House for boys and girls aged 3–11; the Stephen Perse Senior School, for boys and girls aged 11–16 (boys joined Year 7 for the first time in September 2017); and the Stephen Perse Sixth Form, co-educational for students aged 16–18+. The school has a strong reputation for academic excellence and a progressive attitude towards learning and social skills, being named the top Independent school in East Anglia by \"The Sunday Times\" on their 'Parent Power' list in 2016. In 2018, Cambridge Centre for Sixth Form Studies joined the Stephen Perse Sixth Form. \n\nIn 1615, Dr Perse's will included a bequest of land for the establishment of what was then described as a Grammar Free School, in Cambridge. It became The Perse School and was originally reserved for boys. It developed along separate lines and operates as a separate organization today, providing coeducational education from ages 3 to 18.\n\nIn 1881, the complementary but unconnected Perse School for Girls opened, as part of the strong 19th-century movement to educate women. From the Perse School for Girls, the Foundation developed to become the Stephen Perse Foundation in 2007. It opened a co-educational sixth form in 2008. It now provides a complete educational pathway for boys and girls from age 1 to 18. \n\nWriter and cartoonist Ronald Searle drew from the Foundation and Cambridgeshire High School for Girls (now Long Road Sixth Form College) as inspiration for his St Trinian's School books (published 1946 to 1952), which portrayed the girls at a boarding school as juvenile delinquents. Searle donated original manuscripts and diaries to the school, which are held in the school archive. This material includes a letter, dated 1993, which confirms the link.\n\nAround the turn of the 20th century, the school accepted boys into its kindergarten, including a young John Maynard Keynes.\n\nIn September 2013, Dame Bradbury's School in Saffron Walden joined the Foundation, as a non-selective school for boys and girls aged 1-11. At the same time, announcements were made of major development plans to admit boys to Rosedale House (then known as the Junior School) and Senior Schools. Boys started at Rosedale House in Cambridge in September 2014, and at the Senior School in 2017, with classes from Year 5 through to Year 11 being taught in a diamond formation. This combines the academic benefits of single-sex learning with the social advantages of a co-educational environment.\n\nIn 2013, the Sunday \"Times\" named the Foundation the International Baccalaureate (IB) School of the Year for the second time. The paper said: \"Students at the Stephen Perse 6th Form College in Cambridge are world-class achievers. Their exceptional academic results this year mean that the school is not only ranked first in Britain but also joint first in the world for the international baccalaureate (IB) diploma.\"\n\nIn November 2014, the school was awarded the title \"Independent School of the Year 2014\" and also \"Outstanding Strategic Initiative\" by the Independent School Awards, decided by a panel of independent judges, including the Chief Inspector of the Independent Schools Inspectorate, Christine Ryan.\n\nIn November 2016, the Foundation was named the Best Independent School in East Anglia by \"The Sunday Times\" on its 'Parent Power' list. The list is acknowledged as the 'most authoritative survey' of the county's best schools, according to the newspaper. The Foundation was ranked at number 18 in a list of 2,000 schools around the United Kingdom. The accolade was based on GCSE and A Level results – 97.6% of A Level students achieved A* to B grades and 86.1% of GCSE students achieved A* and A grades. In 2017, The same Parent Power survey ranked the school number 40 in the UK and, in 2018, number 74.\n\nThe Foundation was shortlisted for \"Digital innovation/ed tech school of the year\" at the TES Schools Awards 2017.\n\nThe main school site occupies a city block, three sides bordered by residential streets and the fourth by the University of Cambridge Department of Chemistry. This houses the Stephen Perse Senior School (ages 11–16), with Rosedale House (ages 3-11) occupying a site close by. The Stephen Perse Pre-Prep was established in 2010, after the Foundation purchased the Madingley site on the retirement of the previous owners.\n\nIn 2017, the school completed a major building project on the main site. It now offers an indoor sports hall, a rooftop multi-use games area, 10 new classrooms, and flexible learning spaces.\n\nThe main site includes a dining room, hall, library, visual arts centre, and a sick bay, with renovations in other classrooms. All classrooms contain interactive whiteboards. There is a class 3 listed gymnasium on site too, as well as ICT rooms, which are available to use before school, after school, and at lunchtimes.\n\nIn 2013, the refurbished library and classrooms in Rosedale House were covered by \"The Guardian\" newspaper in a feature on inspirational teaching spaces.\n\nThe school also contains astroturf playing fields, a fenland nature reserve, and a pavilion.\n\nThere are currently approximately 800 pupils: 80 in the Pre-Prep, 140 in Rosedale House, and 140 in the Sixth Form; and 450 in the Senior School. Usually there are four classes in years 7 and 8, and five classes in years 9, 10 and 11. In Rosedale House, there are two classes in years 3, 4, 5, and 6.\n\nThe Student Forum offers students the chance for their views to be heard. Each form elects two representatives to sit on the forum. The Student Forum meets once every half term to discuss issues that are affecting the lives of the students. This enables the school to know what issues the students want addressed. Rosedale House has a School Council, with responsibilities similar to those of the Student Forum.\n\nPupils are given the chance in their final year to hold responsibilities. These include sitting on one of the school's committees, mentoring the younger years, or creating the school's yearbook. The Year 11s give their responsibilities over to the Year 10s when they start their exam period in the Spring Term.\n\nThe 'Head Boy or Girl' is chosen in Year 10, elected by both their peers and teachers. The Head then leads the Student Forum and reads at the annual Carol Service. A Student President is elected in the same manner for the Sixth Form. The Student President acts as a liaison between staff and sixth formers, as well as monitoring the work of the sixth form student committees and maintaining the link between the sixth form and the senior school.\n\nForm groups lead an assembly every year, and also run charity initiatives for that Term's charity. The class that raises the most money is given a certificate in a frame, which they can hang up in the classroom for the rest of the term.\n\nEach pupil and teacher is part of a house named after a notable contributor to the school, for example, head teachers and people who donated money to the school. The houses are:\n\n\nThe plans to introduce iPads for educational use in the Senior School started in September 2012. This was extended to the Sixth Form from September 2013.\n\nIn 2013 it was announced that the school will be accepting boys for the first time in to Rosedale House in 2014 and then the Senior school in 2017, becoming coeducational.\n\nThere is a large range of opportunities for learning at the Stephen Perse. Students learn French from Year 3 and Spanish from year 4, and can choose to learn German, Mandarin Chinese, or Russian from year 9.\nFor GCSE, there are many options available, with students taking 10 or 11 GCSEs. All students take Maths, English Language, and English Literature IGCSEs; and Biology, Chemistry and Physics GCSEs. Students also take an IGCSE in either French and/or Spanish. Students choose up to four options from History, Geography, Religious Studies and Philosophy, German, Mandarin Chinese, Russian, Art, Drama, Design and Technology, Music, Latin, and Greek. Critical Thinking is taught as a non-examined course, as is Physical Education. Students can take a short course Physical Education GCSE as an extra-curricular activity.\n\nRecently, a new lesson was introduced in Rosedale House: Thinking Skills. This includes a range of topics from social to political, encouraging sharing points of view through debating, and asking questions about the wider world. It is based around the Philosophy for Children programme (P4C).\n\nThe Sixth Form students choose either the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme or A Levels (Music is taught through the Cambridge Pre-U qualification). All students in the Sixth Form take the IB course in Theory of Knowledge. From September 2013, A Level students will also have the opportunity to take an Extended Essay (from the IB) for qualification.\n\nThe school has been an International Baccalaureate World School since 2007 and was named the \"Sunday Times\" IB School of the year in 2010 and 2013.\n\nIn 2013 the school was reported as holding the joint-highest IB results in the world, with a student average score of 42.2 points. In 2018, the average IB points score was 36, as reported in the Sunday Times Parent Power Survey ranking.\n\nThe school makes extensive use of technology in the curriculum. It has been featured by BBC News regarding the innovatory use of iTunes U courses.\n\nSport is played throughout the school. In the younger years, students play hockey, netball, rounders and tennis. They also do gymnastics and Athletics, and the school offers a wide range of sports clubs. When students reach Year 9, they are given more choice of sports, and they can be instructed in rowing, volleyball, basketball, squash, badminton, cricket, touch rugby, lacrosse and dance. Many Stephen Perse teams compete regionally in hockey, rounders, netball, and tennis and several students compete at National level in their chosen sports. In 2013 there was a hockey tour to South Africa.\n\nDrama is taught throughout the school. Every year group is given the chance to perform in a play, or help backstage or with lighting. Every other year, Years 10-12 put on a musical, which is performed at the Mumford Theatre. Each year in Rosedale House, Year 5s are the main focus of the Christmas Concert, and near the end of the Spring Term, the Year 6s put on a play as well. At the end of every year, the Year 4s also put on a show, accompanied by the other Years in singing.\n\nA range of arts are taught by experienced teachers in the recently built Visual Arts Centre. Students have the chance to try Fine Art, from painting to drawing to sculpting, Textiles, which includes fashion designing and creations with a wide variety of materials, and Digital Media on the Macs.\n\nMusic is also an important part of the school. There are many orchestras and choirs that students can join. The Singers, a choir open from Year 10, regularly goes on choir tours in Europe, and sometimes sings Evensong at Ely Cathedral. There is also a Senior School Chamber Choir, and a Middle School Chamber Choir, which have around 15 students in each by audition, and the Jazz Singers, Year 7 choir, Middle School Choir, and Year 7 boys choir, which are attendable by all. Students are given the chance to sing or play at the Christmas carol service at Great St Mary's Church, the spring concert at West Road, and Jazz on a Summer's Evening. Individual music tuition is readily available in a range of instruments from saxophone to oboe to voice.\n\nThe Stephen Perse Foundation holds the British Council International School Award in recognition of the work the school undertakes with schools in Finland, Hungary, Portugal, Italy, France, Russia, Spain, Germany and Japan. The Comenius project aims to bring the teaching of Classics into the modern world. The school hosted a week on the topic of Metamorphoses in 2010, in which students from the sister schools came to Cambridge to take part in workshops including dance, drama, art and textiles.\n\nResidential trips are organized for both fun and learning. Year 4 students go to Burwell near the end of the year, and in the summer term, Year 6 students have a three-day residential. In previous years the year sixes have been to Paris, Edinburgh, and Normandy. At the beginning of Year 7, students and year staff go to Grafham Water to take part in team-building exercises. This helps the year to get to know each other. In Year 10, all students who can afford it go to Flanders, for a cross-curricular trip. Exchanges take place for all modern languages taught; The French Exchange in Years 8 and 9, and the others in Year 10. The Year 9 Ski trip and USA exchange are also very popular. In 2013 the 6th form went to Costa Rica (science expedition), in 2014 to Ladakh, India and in 2015 to Zanzibar, Tanzania.\n\nThe school was connected to The Gambia, and each year money is raised by initiatives such as the Journey to Africa walk, and occasional soup days. Students from the older years took part in a journey to the Gambia yearly to meet the people they help through fundraising initiatives. The school also raises money for Barnados with Barnados Day. This takes place every two years where each class decorates their form room with different themes. This is a much-loved event with much cake, games and bizarre costumes.\n\nAll parts of the school support a different charity each year as well.\n\nThe school has an extensive speaker programme known as'inspire me'. Participants have included: Doug Richard (Dragon's Den entrepreneur), Bridget Kendall (BBC journalist), Stephanie Cook (Olympic gold medallist), and Wendy Tan White (founder of Moonfruit).\n\nLord Williams of Oystermouth, Master of Magdalene College, Cambridge and former Archbishop of Canterbury, spoke at the leavers' service in 2013.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948461", "title": "Moravian Karst", "text": "Moravian Karst\n\nThe Moravian Karst () is a karst landscape and protected nature reserve to the north of Brno in the eastern part of the Czech Republic, located near the town of Blansko. It encompasses a number of notable geological features, including roughly 1100 caverns and gorges and covers an area of roughly 92 km². Currently, five of the cave systems (Punkva Caves, Balcarka Cave, Kateřinská Cave, Výpustek Cave and Sloupsko-šošůvské Caves), Býčí skála Cave (closed) and Stránská skála (out of the border) are open for public tours and exploration.\n\nThis region is also home to one of the most important single geological features in the Czech Republic, the Macocha Abyss, a gorge 138 m deep, which was formed when the ceiling of a cave chamber collapsed. Macocha Abyss is also the place where the Punkva River begins to run underground through the Punkva cave system, and two small pools of water are visible at the surface.\n\nThe Moravian Karst is a popular tourist attraction in the local area, and large numbers of tourists visit in the summer months. In addition to caverns, the nature preserve also contains well-marked bicycle trails and hiking paths to explore.\n"}
{"id": "1948466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948466", "title": "Khanate of Kokand", "text": "Khanate of Kokand\n\nThe Khanate of Kokand (; Қўқон Хонлиги, قۇقان خانلىگى; ) was an Uzbek state in Fergana Valley, Central Asia that existed from 1709–1876 within the territory of eastern Uzbekistan, modern Kyrgyzstan, eastern Tajikistan and southeastern Kazakhstan. The name of the city and the khanate may also be spelled as Khoqand in modern scholarly literature.\n\nThe Khanate of Kokand was established in 1709 when the Shaybanid emir Shahrukh, of the Ming Tribe of Uzbeks, declared independence from the Khanate of Bukhara, establishing a state in the eastern part of the Fergana Valley. He built a citadel as his capital in the small town of Kokand, thus starting the Khanate of Kokand. His son, Abdul Kahrim Bey, and grandson, Narbuta Bey, enlarged the citadel, but both were forced to submit as a protectorate, and pay tribute to, the Qing dynasty in China between 1774 and 1798.\n\nNarbuta Bey’s son Alim was both ruthless and efficient. He hired a mercenary army of Tajik highlanders, and conquered the western half of the Fergana Valley, including Khujand and Tashkent. He was assassinated by his brother Umar in 1811. Umar’s son, Mohammed Ali (Madali Khan), ascended to the throne in 1822 at the age of 12. During his reign, the Khanate of Kokand reached its greatest territorial extent. The Kokand Khanate also housed the Khojas of Kashgar like Jahangir Khoja. In 1841, the British officer Captain Arthur Conolly failed to persuade the various khanates to put aside their differences, in an attempt to counter the growing penetration of the Russian Empire into the area. In November 1841, Captain Conolly left Kokand for Bukhara in an ill-fated attempt to rescue fellow officer Colonel Charles Stoddart, and both were executed on 24 June 1842 by the order of Emir Nasrullah Khan of Bukhara.\n\nFollowing this, Madali Khan, who had received Conolly in Kokand, and who had also sought an alliance with Russia, lost the trust of Nasrullah. The Emir, encouraged by the conspiratorial efforts of several influential figures in Kokand (including the commander in chief of its army), invaded the Khanate in 1842. Shortly thereafter he executed Madali Khan, his brother, and Omar Khan's widow, the famed poet Nodira. Madali Khan’s cousin, Shir Ali, was installed as the Khan of Kokand in June 1842. Over the next two decades, the khanate was weakened by a bitter civil war, which was further exacerbated by Bukharan and Russian incursions. Shir Ali’s son, Khudayar Khan, ruled from 1844 to 1858, from 1862 to 1863, and from 1865 to 1875. In the meantime, Russia was continuing its advance; on 29 June 1865 Tashkent was taken by the Russian troops of General Chernyayev; the loss of Khujand followed in 1867.\n\nShortly before the fall of Tashkent, Kokand’s best-known son, Yakub Beg, former lord of Tashkent, was sent by the then Khan of Kokand, Alimqul, to Kashgar, where the Hui Muslims were in revolt against the Chinese. When Alimqul was killed in 1865 during the battle with Russia for Tashkent, many Kokandian soldiers fled to join Yaqub Beg, helping him establish his dominion throughout the Tarim Basin, which lasted until 1877, when Qing reconquered the region.\n\nIn 1868, a treaty turned Kokand into a Russian vassal state. The now powerless Khudayar Khan spent his energies improving his lavish palace. Western visitors were impressed by the city of 80,000 people, which contained some 600 mosques and 15 madrasahs. Insurrections against Russian rule and Khudayar’s oppressive taxes forced him into exile in 1875. He was succeeded by his son, Nasruddin Khan, whose anti-Russian stance provoked the annexation of Kokand (after six months of fierce fighting) by Generals Konstantin von Kaufman and Mikhail Skobelev. In January 1876, Tsar Alexander II stated that he had been forced to \"... yield to the wishes of the Kokandi people to become Russian subjects.\" The Khanate of Kokand was declared abolished, and incorporated into the Fergana Oblast of Russian Turkestan.\n\nSources: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948469", "title": "Dominic West", "text": "Dominic West\n\nDominic Gerard Francis Eagleton West (born 15 October 1969) is an English actor, director, and musician. He is best known for playing Jimmy McNulty in \"The Wire\" (2002–2008) and Noah Solloway in\" The Affair\" (2014–2019), the latter of which earned him a Golden Globe nomination. He won the British Academy Television Award for Best Actor at the 2012 British Academy Television Awards for portraying serial killer Fred West in \"Appropriate Adult\" (2011), and he played Jean Valjean in the 2018 BBC miniseries \"Les Misérables\". His film credits include \"Chicago\" (2002), \"300\" (2007), \"\" (2008), \"John Carter\" (2012), \"The Square\" (2017), and \"Colette\" (2018). West now plays the role of Dr Chris Cox in the Sky One series \"Brassic\".\n\nDominic Gerard Francis Eagleton West was born on 15 October 1969 in Sheffield, West Riding of Yorkshire. He is the sixth of seven siblings (five girls and two boys) born into a family of Irish Catholic descent. His mother, Pauline Mary (\"née\" Cleary), was an actress, and his father, Thomas George Eagleton West, owned a plastics factory. He is the first cousin once removed of American politician Thomas Eagleton. West attended Eton College and Trinity College, Dublin. He graduated from the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in 1995.\n\nWest's screen appearances include \"True Blue\", \"Chicago\", \"Richard III\", and \"Mona Lisa Smile\". His most notable television role has been starring in \"The Wire\" as the American police detective Jimmy McNulty. West was praised for the accuracy of his character's American accent. His debut as a director was while being on \"The Wire\"; he directed the episode \"Took\" (2008).\n\nWest starred as Lysander in the 1999 film version of William Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\". In feature films, he portrayed the heavy metal guitarist Kirk Cuddy in the 2001 film \"Rock Star\". West played \"Fred Casely\" in 2002 film Chicago.\n\nIn 2006 West played the Spartan politician Theron in \"300\" and made a guest appearance as an actor in a sketch in \"The Catherine Tate Show\", alongside \"\"Frankie Howerd\" impressionist\". In 2007 he played Detective Poppil in \"Hannibal Rising\". West played the disfigured supervillain Jigsaw in the 2008 film \"Marvel's \". In 2010 he had a role as General Virilus in Neil Marshall's adventure thriller \"Centurion\". West starred in the UK ghost film, \"The Awakening\".\n\nWest has done other work on TV and radio. He appeared in the role of Oliver Cromwell in the Channel 4 series \"The Devil's Whore\". He also performed as \"Dr. West\", the opening track on Eminem's 2009 album \"Relapse\", as a doctor discharging Eminem from a rehab facility. West played the part over the phone in January 2009 while Eminem was recording it in a Miami studio.\n\nIn December 2009, West starred as Hank in a radio adaptation of Eugene O'Neill's expressionist play \"The Hairy Ape\" for BBC Radio 3, was a guest presenter on the BBC show \"Have I Got News for You\", and ended the year alongside Joan Rivers and Sarah Jessica Parker with an appearance on Graham Norton's New Year's Eve Show.\n\nIn 2011, West appeared as a news presenter on the BBC-TV period drama series \"The Hour\". He also played serial killer Fred West in the ITV two-part series \"Appropriate Adult\", giving a performance that the serial killer's daughter described as capturing the \"evil essence of [Fred West] – his character, his mannerisms, even his gait.\"\n\nIn 2012, West was offered the role of Mance Rayder in the HBO fantasy series \"Game of Thrones\", but turned it down due to the amount of time he would have to spend away from his family. He played gay activist Jonathan Blake in the 2014 film \"Pride\" about the 1984–1985 miners' strike in the UK. West stars as Noah Solloway on Showtime's series \"The Affair\", which premiered October 2014. The series was renewed for a fifth season in 2018.\n\nIn 2018 it was reported that West was represented by Tavistock Wood Management.\n\nIn 2019, West played the role of Jean Valjean in the BBC's adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel Les Misérables.\n\nAs a theatre actor, West has played Edward in Harley Granville Barker's \"The Voysey Inheritance\" directed by Peter Gill at the Royal National Theatre in 2006. Around 2009, he starred at London's Donmar Warehouse as the protagonist in Helen Edmundson's adaptation of Pedro Calderon de la Barca's existential drama \"Life Is a Dream\", for which he received glowing reviews.\n\nHe took the title role in Simon Gray's classic comedy, \"Butley\", playing at the Duchess Theatre in London from 1 June 2011. In the September he returned to his native Sheffield to play Iago to his former Wire co-star Clarke Peters's Othello at the Crucible Theatre.\n\nIn September to October 2012, he starred in Jez Butterworth's \"The River\" at the Royal Court Theatre in London with Miranda Raison and Laura Donnelly.\n\nFrom mid December 2012 to January 2013, West starred as Henry Higgins in \"My Fair Lady\" at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield.\n\nIn 2015–16, he starred alongside Janet McTeer in \"Les Liaisons Dangereuses\" at the Donmar Warehouse in London.\n\nIn 2009, West starred in a series of online films known as \"The Carte Noire Readers\". Made to promote French coffee brand Carte Noire, they consist of actors reading love scenes from a selection of sources and acting through the commitment of justice. West reads extracts from \"Pride and Prejudice\" by Jane Austen; \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\" by D.H. Lawrence; \"High Fidelity\" by Nick Hornby; \"The Age of Innocence\" by Edith Wharton; \"Life Class\" by Pat Barker; \"The Moment You Were Gone\" by Nicci Gerrard; and \"Something Childish But Very Natural\" by Katherine Mansfield.\n\nWest is a supporter of care charity Helen's Trust in response to their assistance to his mother prior to her death.\n\nHe led Team Canada/Australia for Walking With The Wounded, a fundraising event for wounded soldiers. He trekked to the South Pole against Team UK (led by Prince Harry) and Team America (led by Alexander Skarsgård). A few days into the trek, it was decided that the competition part of the race would be cancelled due to hazardous terrain and weather conditions, so the teams combined forces and continued. Alongside Harry, Skarsgård and several wounded soldiers, West successfully made it to the South Pole on 13 December 2013.\n\nIn 1998, West and his then-girlfriend Polly Astor (daughter of Michael Astor) had a daughter named Martha. West later rekindled his romance with Catherine FitzGerald, whom he had dated at university. The two married in Glin, County Limerick on 26 June 2010, and have four children: Dora, Senan, Francis, and Christabel. FitzGerald, an Anglo-Irish aristocrat, is the daughter of Desmond FitzGerald, 29th Knight of Glin and was formerly married to Edward Lambton, 7th Earl of Durham. West and FitzGerald split their time between a town home in Shepherd's Bush, London and Glin Castle, FitzGerald's childhood home in Ireland.\n\nIn August 2014, West was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to \"The Guardian\" expressing their hope that Scotland would vote to remain part of the United Kingdom in September's referendum on that issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1948471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948471", "title": "Kalinite", "text": "Kalinite\n\nKalinite is a mineral composed of hydrated potassium aluminium sulfate (a type of alum). It is a fibrous monoclinic alum, distinct from isometric potassium alum, named in 1868. Its name comes from \"kalium\" (derived from Arabic: القَلْيَه al-qalyah “plant ashes”) which is the Latin name for potassium, hence its chemical symbol, \"K\". \n\nA proposal to remove recognition of kalinite as a mineral species was submitted to the International Mineralogical Association, however, kalinite is still on the list of approved minerals. Many older samples, however, have been found to be potassium alum.\n\nKalinite is a rare secondary mineral observed in the oxidized zone of mineral deposits, as efflorescence on alum slates, in caves, and as a volcanic sublimate. It is associated with jarosite, KFe(SO)(OH), and cuprian melanterite (pisanite), (Fe,Cu)SO·7HO, at Quetena, Chile.\n"}
{"id": "1948511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948511", "title": "Brian Faloon", "text": "Brian Faloon\n\nBrian Faloon is a musician born in Belfast, Northern Ireland. He played drums for Highway Star, who were to become Stiff Little Fingers, having met two of the other band members at Belfast Boys' Model School. Faloon stayed with SLF long enough to record their first album \"Inflammable Material\" but decided the rock 'n' roll lifestyle wasn't for him, so left the band, inspiring the words to SLF's single \"Wait and See\". In the nineties, Faloon occasionally performed as a guest drummer with the SLF tribute band Hanx who went on to become minor Punk band 'The Red Eyes'. As of 2009, he is back in Northern Ireland where he presents a weekly show on local radio.\n"}
{"id": "1948526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948526", "title": "Strathfield railway station", "text": "Strathfield railway station\n\nStrathfield railway station is a heritage-listed railway station located on the Main Suburban line in the Sydney suburb of Strathfield in the Municipality of Strathfield local government area of New South Wales, Australia. The station is served by Sydney Trains T1 North Shore, Northern & Western Line and T2 Inner West & Leppington Line suburban services as well as NSW TrainLink Intercity and regional services. The station is located on the Main Northern and Main Western railway lines, forming a major junction for regional and suburban rail services. The station is also known as the Strathfield Railway Station group, Strathfield Triangle, Strathfield Flyover and Strathfield Underbridges. The property is owned by RailCorp, an agency of the Government of New South Wales. The station and associated infrastructure was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nThis suburb, extending from Concord Plains to the Cooks River, was part of the area known (early in the colony) as Liberty Plains, so called because the first free settlers received grants there. James Wilshire received in 1808 and called it Wilshire Farm - the grant lay between the present streets The Boulevarde, Chalmers Street and Liverpool Road.\n\nTo the west of this were Church Lands, declared in 1823 to support clergy in the colony, which extended into present day Flemington. In 1841 this was sold and the part south of Barker Road was acquired by Joseph Newton. The grant was sold to Samuel Terry in 1824 and he renamed it Redmyre Estate. The name Redmire (changed to Redmyre) honoured a village in North Yorkshire, England, which was near the birthplace of the Terry family.\n\nIn 1885 the area was incorporated as Strathfield. This new title came from the name of a mansion built in the district by John Hardie, a wealthy early settler, who chose the name to honour the English estate given in 1817 by a grateful nation to the Duke of Wellington.\n\nThe first section of public railway line built in NSW was from Redfern station to Parramatta station on 26 September 1855. This line passed through the area now known as Strathfield. No station was provided at Strathfield, the closest stations were Burwood station and Flemington station.\n\nThe first station at Strathfield was named \"Redmyre\" and opened as a \"halt\" on 9 September 1876. It was renamed Strathfield on 8 March 1885. The first use of the present name \"Strathfield\" was adopted on 8 March 1886 and was named after the mansion Strathfield House, owned by James Hardy. Strathfield station came into prominence with the construction of the Main Northern line, which had its junction off the Western line at Strathfield. The first section to Hornsby station opened on 17 September 1886. Four platforms were provided, two for the Western line and two for the Northern line. A new mechanical signal box was built on the down-side behind the down western platform, this was the first signal box at Strathfield. A station was built on a new site in 1900, and yet again in 1922. The line was quadruplicated between 1891 and 1892, causing track alterations and requiring the construction of a pedestrian subway at the western end of the station to connect all platforms.\n\nThe 1900 platforms, overhead station building and road bridge were demolished and the present four-island platforms were built, giving a total of eight platforms. Access to these was now via a centrally located pedestrian subway and ramps. A short Parcels Platform was also built on the down side of the Down Local Line at the Sydney end. The land required for the extra platforms was reclaimed from The Boulevard and Clarendon Street (Albert Road).\n\nAs part of the electrification of the Sydney network, the station was rebuilt, opening on 7 March 1927. This included an overpass to take the Main Northern line over the Main Suburban line. In addition, a platform and building was erected at the southern end of platform eight which provided a mortuary receiving facility. This was subsequently converted to a store for the railway refreshment room on the station.\n\nAs part of reconstruction of the station area and for the future electrification of the western and northern rail lines a new Power Signal Box was built at Strathfield. This (the third signal box) was located on the Down side parallel to the Down Local at the country end of the station. It was built on a resumed, triangular block of land bounded by the Main Western Line to its north and Clarendon Street (Albert Road) to its south. The power signal box was the third signal box erected at Strathfield, the previous two signal boxes becoming \"mechanical signal boxes\". Strathfield power signal box controlled all train movements from the Sydney side of Wentworth Road overbridge (east), through Strathfield platforms and the tracks to the north and west of the flyover at the country end.\n\nWhen the line from Strathfield to Hornsby was completed in the 1920s, Strathfield became the junction of all trains going north and west - an important rail junction.\n\nIn 1982, as part of the upgrading and modernising of the suburban signalling system the Strathfield power signal box was close to being replaced by the new Strathfield Signal Box complex located at Homebush incorporating a Relay Based Route Locking Signalling System. The new complex also replaced signal boxes at Ashfield, North Strathfield, Concord West, Homebush, Flemington Car Sidings, Flemington Goods Junction and Lidcombe.\n\nStrathfield continues to be a busy and important junction station with the signalling complex at Homebush being the second largest signal box in the Sydney Metropolitan area.\n\nRail traffic in the Strathfield area has been controlled from Strathfield signal box, which is actually situated at Homebush, since 1983. Signalling at Strathfield is controlled by an entrance-exit (NX) route control panel with an early automatic route setting (ARS) system, which was manufactured by Westinghouse in the United Kingdom. This system is connected to double light colour light signals and electro-pneumatic switch machines on the ground. The 1926-vintage power box, which had a Westinghouse miniature lever frame, still stands to the west end of platform 8.\n\nIn 1927, the section of the suburban line to Strathfield was electrified, and at this time the Strathfield Substation was built. The Substation came into use on 27 August 1928, and was one of the 15 electrical substations built in the Sydney area between 1926 and 1932.\n\nThe Strathfield Substation was replaced by a new installation to the north of the original building. After this, the substation was converted to a fabrication workshop for signalling equipment, and has been used since 1990 by the Signal Branch to house its workshop. When this occurred, a modern extension was added to its south wing, removing the area on that side where the outdoor transformers were formerly located. At this time, the building was modified internally also, with offices added at the mezzanine level, a new crane installed on the original crane tracks and floor areas altered.\n\nPunchbowl Bus Company operates one route via Strathfield station:\n\nTransdev NSW operates three routes via Strathfield station:\n\nState Transit operates two routes via Strathfield station:\n\nTransit Systems operate six routes via Strathfield station:\n\nStrathfield station is served by four NightRide routes:\n\nThe station complex and associated infrastructure comprises a type 18, cast iron and timber building with 1-8 platforms, erected in 1927; cast iron and timber platform awnings for platforms 1-8, also erected in 1927; a brick and fibro gambrel roof power box that served as a former signal box, also erected in 1927; a brick parcels room and platform on the down local line; and a substation in triangle. Other major structures include a brick pedestrian subway at the Sydney end of the station, erected in 1927; ramps to all platforms with brick walls, also erected in 1927; and a pedestrian subway at the west end, under all tracks, also erected in 1927. Landscaped works include a brick wall opposite platform 1 on the up main loop.\n\nStrathfield is a superb example of a large station that presents a coherent and uniform set of structures. It is the only example of the large awning structure station without on-platform buildings. It is located at a major junction with eight platforms and an elaborate subway system to service them. The quality of the platform structures is high and represents technological achievement that was compatible with design in Britain at the time. The structure uses decorative elements in the columns with plinths and capitals, elegant curved brackets, patterned fascias and being on a curve, presents an elegant and refined structure.\n\nThe former signal box is one of a few surviving large power boxes that adds to the station group and is significant in its own right.\n\nThe parcels office is a good example of a freestanding standard structure, very few of which survive.\n\nStrathfield railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThis item is assessed as historically rare. This item is assessed as archaeologically rare. This item is assessed as socially rare.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948531", "title": "Mordenite", "text": "Mordenite\n\nMordenite is a zeolite mineral with the chemical formula, (Ca, Na, K)AlSiO·7HO. and it is one of the six most abundant zeolites and is used commercially.\n\nIt was first described in 1864 by Henry How. He named it after the small community of Morden, Nova Scotia, Canada, along the Bay of Fundy, where it was first found.\n\nMordenite is orthorhombic (a,b,c unequal & all angles 90 degree). It crystallizes in the form of fibrous aggregates, masses, and vertically striated prismatic crystals. It may be colorless, white, or faintly yellow or pink. It has Mohs hardness of 5 and a density of 2.1 g/cm. When it forms well developed crystals they are hairlike; very long, thin, and delicate.\n\nMordenite’s molecular structure is a framework containing chains of five-membered rings of linked silicate and aluminate tetrahedra (four oxygen atoms arranged at the points of a triangular pyramid about a central silicon or aluminium atom). Its high ratio of silicon to aluminum atoms makes it more resistant to attack by acids than most other zeolites.\n\nMordenite is one of the most abundant zeolites in altered volcanic deposits; it is found in volcanic rock such as rhyolite, andesite, and basalt. It is associated with other zeolites such as stilbite and heulandite. Good examples have been found in Iceland, India, Italy, Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. It is also found in marine sediments, as in the Ural Mountains and in dikes where water has attacked and altered volcanic glasses, as on the Isle of Arran in Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948533", "title": "Epping Boys High School", "text": "Epping Boys High School\n\nEpping Boys High School is a government high school located at Marsfield, New South Wales, Australia, which was established in 1957. The current principal is Tim O'Brien.\n\nAs well as high musical achievements the school also has a strong sporting background and are high achievers in the academic field as well. The school has been placed on the Centre of Excellence program.\n\nOn 15 April 2010 the school hosted a Community Cabinet meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Australia, Kevin Rudd.\n\nIn the 2016/17 cricket season, Epping Boys High School won both the Challenge Cup and Allan Davidson Shield, defeating Figtree High and Endeavour Sports High respectively.\n\nThe school traditionally uses green and gold in its logo and student uniforms. The school tie for junior year students consists of gold stripes on green with white stripes and school logo, while for senior year students consists of gold school logo printed on a pure green background.\n\nThe school has four houses, which are based upon prominent figures in the Epping-Eastwood area. Pupils competing in sport, academic and other various events earn points for their houses. At the end of the year, the house with the most points win the house cup. The houses are named after the people who built farms in the Marsfield area. The houses are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948541", "title": "Quart (disambiguation)", "text": "Quart (disambiguation)\n\nQuart is an imperial and US customary unit of volume.\n\nQuart may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
