{"id": "1931793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931793", "title": "Michael Palin's Hemingway Adventure", "text": "Michael Palin's Hemingway Adventure\n\nMichael Palin's Hemingway Adventure is a 1999 BBC television documentary presented by Michael Palin. It records Palin's travels as he visited many sites where Ernest Hemingway had been. The sites include Spain, Chicago, Paris, Italy, Africa, Key West, Cuba, and Idaho.\n\nAfter the trip was over Michael Palin wrote a book about the journey and his experiences. This book contains both Palin's text and many pictures by Basil Pao, the stills photographer who was on the team.\n\nThe series consists of four 50-minute episodes, as follows:\n\nThe programme starts out with Palin sitting on a beach reading a novel of Hemingway. After being chased by a fake bull he ends up in Pamplona, Spain. There he watches the famous bull run and then goes to interview a professional matador. Hemingway loved the bull run, and Palin confides that it must be an age thing - he can't stand watching it.\n\nTravelling to Africa where Hemingway went on many safaris, Palin goes to a local Maasai circumcision where the teenage boys are dressed up in finery. \"Which of you is the most beautiful here?\" he asked. \"We are all beautiful,\" replies the boy, \"except you!\" Afterwards, he catches a view of Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa's highest point.\n\nIn Chicago, Palin spends a bit of time exploring the city before going to Hemingway's birthplace, Oak Park. After strolling through Hemingway's first home and singing some of his childhood songs, he goes back to Chicago and enters a local shooting range, hoping to be like Hemingway. Mostly, Palin just jumps at the recoil.\n\nOn to Michigan, where Palin visits the area where Hemingway first learned to fish, and attempts to catch a few himself. He catches none and ends up hooking the cameraman's ear. Going to the local grocer, Palin asks for things that might have been on Hemingway's shopping list to see if the modern grocer would still carry it. In the process of asking for canned meat, (\"We have Spam,\" the grocer says,) he ends up singing the Spam song from the famous Monty Python sketch. Then it's off to Italy.\n\nIn Italy, Palin goes to the area where Hemingway was wounded during World War I and supposedly buried a ten-pound note in the ground. After a fruitless search, Palin buries his book in the ground. After attempting to drive an Italian ambulance and become a Red Cross nurse, he travels on to France.\n\nParis, France was \"...the city I love most in all the world,\" according to Hemingway. Now Palin goes through the City of Lights and reenacts perhaps the strangest part of Hemingway's life in 1928 - when the writer was reaching for the cord for the lavatory, he ended up pulling the skylight cord, and the pane of glass crashed on top of his head.\nIn a random twist of events, Palin pops up in the Florida Keys and sees a Hemingway look-alike contest at the local restaurant in Key West. He also goes to visit a man who had boxed with Hemingway.\n\nGoing to Uganda, Palin looks at the site where Hemingway's plane crashed, after which the newspaper headlines incorrectly declared that the famous author and his wife were dead. Palin soon flies on to Venice, Italy, to keep following Hemingway's always moving footsteps.\n\nIn Venice, Palin walks in the midst of an ancient festival that had been forgotten for 200 years and was revived only in 1975. The people wear masks and cloaks, so Palin decides to get into the spirit and dresses up as a Gumby from the Monty Python television series. After this, Palin goes to a dinner before participating in a duck hunt, and interviews the Italian people at the meal. Putting on a warm jacket and gloves, Palin and the Barone, his duck-hunting partner, wait in vain for three and a half hours for a duck to come.\n\nPalin flies to Cuba where he finds many Hemingway leads and visits his former home and a hotel room he often stayed in. Many failed attempts to interview President Castro are made, and Palin, after waiting a few extra days to have an interview, jets off towards the American West.\n\nFollowing the last stretch of Hemingway's life, Palin becomes a cowboy at a dude ranch in Montana and succeeds in roping the camera operator. After rounding up a few cows, Palin goes to Ketchum, Idaho to visit Hemingway's grave. He professes that \"I'm still looking for some sort of approval from him... some sort of nod of acknowledgment from Hemingway.\" The grave obligingly replies, \"Bull-s***.\"\n\nThe programme has been released on DVD in the UK, on a single disc. Unlike the DVD editions of all of the other Michael Palin trips there is no extra material on this DVD. It was released on DVD in Region 1 (North America) in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931799", "title": "Full Circle with Michael Palin", "text": "Full Circle with Michael Palin\n\nFull Circle with Michael Palin is a 10-part 1997 documentary television series produced by the British Broadcasting Corporation. Presented by Michael Palin, \"Full Circle\" was the third of a series of programmes in which Palin made and documented lengthy journeys. The first was \"Around the World in 80 Days with Michael Palin\", a 7-part series first broadcast on BBC One in 1989, and the second was \"Pole to Pole with Michael Palin\", an 8-part series first broadcast on BBC One in 1992.\n\nThe series documented a 10-month, 50,000-mile (80,000 km) trip taken by Palin and a film crew around the rim of the Pacific Ocean in 1995 and 1996, beginning on the Diomede Islands between Alaska and Russia in the Bering Strait. The intent was to make the full anti-clockwise trip around the Pacific Rim and end up back on the Diomede Islands, but due to rough weather, he was unable to actually set foot back on the Islands again at the end of his journey. He got within two miles of completing the full circle. Palin travelled through Russia, Japan, South Korea (they were not allowed to travel very far in North Korea), China, Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, Bolivia, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, United States, and Canada.\n\nPalin also authored a companion book based upon the series, which was published concurrently with its first broadcast. This book contained both Palin's text and many pictures by Basil Pao, the stills photographer on the team. Pao also produced a separate book of the photographs he took during the journey, \"Full Circle - The Photographs\", a large coffee-table style book printed on glossy paper.\n\nThe programme consists of 10 episodes, each 50 minutes long. Unlike the first two Michael Palin journeys, the episodes were not given names, and are just presented as \"Episode One\", etc.\n\nPalin begins his trek around the Pacific Rim at Little Diomede Island, Alaska, in hopes of returning there in a year's time. Arriving at Nome, he visits with a goldpanner on the \"Golden Sands of Nome\". Next, he journeys to Kodiak Island, but gets stuck for a couple extra days due to fog and misses the flight he had planned with the US Coast Guard to the western island of Attu. However, he does catch a glimpse of the Kodiak brown bear. Palin and his crew find an alternative: they catch the last Alaska Airlines flight of the year from Anchorage to Petropavlovsk in Russia. Arriving on the Kamchatka Peninsula, he meets his guide Igor Nosov and his assistants. They board a helicopter and observe the Kronotsky Nature Reserve, which contains some active volcanoes, as well as some reindeer. Moving on to the city of Magadan, he visits an old Gulag camp with a survivor. In Vladivostok, he observes the once-powerful Pacific Fleet and is given an opportunity to sing Polyushko-polye with the Pacific Fleet Ensemble.\n\nPalin begins his time in Japan at Sado Island, where he meets the Kodō drummers. He participates in a morning run with drummer hopefuls and then takes his shot at the largest drum. Then it is on to Tokyo, where he meets up with Mayumi Nobetsu, a Japanese Monty Python fan. They tour the Asakusa neighbourhood where they decide to bet on a horse race. Palin and Nobetsu strike gold with a horse named Super License. The two also eat at a restaurant where the speciality is loaches who have been fed sake. Afterwards, they catch a punk rock concert in Yoyogi Park. Catching the shinkansen to Fukuyama, he takes in a Zen Buddhist meditation session at Buttsuji Temple. During the meditation session in the Zendo, he is struck by a keisaku, which is used to keep meditators from lulling off to sleep. In Nagasaki, he visits Huis ten Bosch, a Dutch-themed park set to symbolise old trading ties with the Dutch.\n\nAfter catching a ferry to Busan in South Korea, he meets up with Shin-Na, a journalist in the capital of Seoul. Shin-Na explains to him that there still exists animosity between Koreans and the Japanese, none more evident than in the fact that most Japanese cultural items are still banned in Korea. The two then witness a rally protesting generals' immunity from prosecution in a bloody massacre in Gwangju in the early 1980s. (About 3 months after Palin left Seoul, the generals were prosecuted and imprisoned.) At the South Seoul Marriage Hall, Palin and Shin-Na attend a wedding ceremony. Palin notices that the number of traditional Korean marriages are dwindling. Not too long after, Palin encounters his first roadblock of the journey: North Korea. He can only go with a group of foreign tourists (no Koreans are allowed) led by one of the Americans stationed at the DMZ. He then \"crosses\" the border in the Joint Security Area at Panmunjeom into the North; however, he cannot venture much further than that without risking being shot or arrested. He looks out into North Korea and states that North and South Korea are not really two separate nations, that it is one nation divided against itself.\n\nArriving in China at the port city of Qingdao, Palin checks into the Welcome Guest House, where Mao Zedong once spent a month right before the Great Leap Forward. Palin gets a massage on the streets of Qingdao and then visits a winery in the Laoshan Mountains, where he samples Chinese chardonnay. He then climbs Taishan Mountain, one of the Five Sacred Mountains of Taoism. Catching a train to Shanghai, he notices how much more modern Chinese trains have become since \"Around the World in 80 Days\" in 1988. Arriving in Shanghai, he discovers a Harvey Nichols store. Palin also takes time out to dance with one of the locals. He also finds out that the Bund, the longtime economic heart of the city (even when he last visited), has been usurped by the Pudong area. Taking an inland route via the Yangtze River, he views the construction for the Three Gorges Dam and notes how a lot of area will be submerged after its completion in 2009. In the large town of Chongqing, he chats with a university graduate over lunch about modern Chinese society. From there, Palin heads south into Guiyang and then the land of the Miao people, a Chinese minority. Some people in a Miao village note that Palin is the first Westerner they had ever seen, as well as the fact he has a big nose. From there, he catches a bus to Pingxiang and Friendship Gate, on the Vietnamese border.\n\nPalin arrives in Vietnam at a time when it is reintroducing itself to the global stage, via a process called Đổi mới (\"new thinking\"). He also observes a local cricket match in the capital of Hanoi, although the BBC is not allowed to film because, due to the fact it took place on land owned by the Vietnamese military, it was deemed a security risk. In a series of still photographs shown in the absence of film, it is revealed that the camera is an Eclair XTR. Palin also observes the Hanoi Hilton, a prison for Americans during the Vietnam War. Catching a train going south to Saigon, he makes a stop in Huế and the Forbidden Purple City, an old imperial palace. In Da Nang, Palin relaxes at China Beach and meets up with a 16-year-old who shows him what is known as the Gateway to Heaven. In Saigon, he tours the Củ Chi tunnels which the Vietnamese military used during all the conflicts within their borders. In nearby Tay Ninh, he visits a Caodaist cathedral. Then he takes a ferry down to the end of the Mekong River.\n\nIn the Philippines, Palin notices how congested traffic is in the capital of Manila. He then chats with some women who are going abroad to work in order to support their families. Palin then takes the opportunity to observe the Banaue Rice Terraces. However, when he gets there, a dense fog prevents him from seeing the terraces, causing frustrated and disbelieving laughter. In Baguio, he witnesses two unique procedures (assisting in one of them) known as \"psychic surgery\". In the southern part of the country, Palin gets some scuba diving lessons and has a meal underwater. In Zamboanga, he attends a cockfight and also judges the Miss La Bella Pacifica beauty pageant. Afterwards, he drives a jeepney down the streets of the city, waiting for a ferry to take him to Borneo.\n\nPalin catches a ferry across the Sulu Sea to the northern tip of Borneo. There, he visits an orangutan rehabilitation centre. From there, he ventures south to Kuching in Sarawak, once ruled by what were known as the White Rajahs. Then he travels inward to a longhouse where members of the Iban people reside. He chats with former headhunters and takes part in a special feast honouring the highest-ranking Iban in the Malaysian government.\n\nAfterwards, he ventures south to the island of Java in Indonesia. From the capital Jakarta, he journeys east with his guide to a tea plantation where he samples tea and helps harvest tea leaves. They then observe a wayang kulit puppet show. In the cultural hub of Yogyakarta, they sample some durian, a pungent fruit. They then tour the Buddhist temple at Borobudur and climb Mount Bromo. In Surabaya on the east coast of Java, they encounter their first major transportation issues since Alaska. Being unable to find a boat to take him across the sea to Darwin, Australia, they settle for one that will take them east on Java, but no further.\n\nIn the DVD interview, Palin states that while in Kuching, he learned that his wife, Helen, needed surgery to remove a brain tumor. He flew back to London from Indonesia, spent a few days with her, and then flew to Australia to continue his Pacific trek\n\nPalin begins in Darwin, where he catches a truck down to Katherine. There, he visits a crocodile farm and helps hatch a few eggs. (Palin wanted the camera to focus on the fact he held a baby crocodile in his hands for five seconds.) Nearby, he checks out an animal rehabilitation centre. Down to King's Creek, he participates in an exciting camel hunt which results in Palin actually getting one. Down to Alice Springs, he catches the Ghan train down to Adelaide, where he participates in the Desperate and Dateless Ball. Then he takes part in a cow race, where he finishes second. In Sydney, he make a cameo appearance in the soap opera \"Home and Away\".\n\nOn to Auckland, New Zealand, he catches a train down to the town of Kaikoura. There he participates in a Māori acceptance ceremony where he spoke and sang a song he learned at Shrewsbury. Palin then travels to Mount Cook and Queenstown for lessons in mountaineering and rafting. He then watches bungee jumping and chats with A.J. Hackett, who developed the sport. Palin then ventures south to the University of Otago in Dunedin, where he is caught in the middle of orientation-week activities. Palin has now reached the halfway point—at least on land—around the Pacific.\n\nStarting the second half of his journey at Cape Horn, Palin views the end of the continent of South America. He travels through the southern islands of Chile to the town of Punta Arenas. He renews acquaintances with his guide from \"Pole to Pole\" and the statue of Ferdinand Magellan with the Indian whose toe he kissed to ensure a safe journey. Venturing through the islands, he views the Torres del Paine National Park and the grave of an English explorer who committed suicide in the area. At Chiloe Island, he chats with an American transplant who discusses the possible existence of witches on the island. Then he attends a local barbecue that included dancing and Palin attempting to play the horse's jawbone. North to Santiago, he observes a memorial to victims of the 1973 coup d'état. Driving through the Atacama Desert, Palin reaches the highest elevation of his life thus far. At the world's largest copper mine in Chuquicamata, Palin does the honours of counting down to the detonation of a mining blast. In the northern town of Arica, he catches a one-car train to La Paz in Bolivia. Things go smoothly until, as they are within striking distance of La Paz, the train has a freakish derailment. After several attempts to get the train back on line, they are successful and eventually reach the Bolivian capital in the black of night.\n\nAt the town of Copacabana, Palin visits with reed boat makers on the shores of Lake Titicaca. Crossing the border into Peru, he chats with a lady who hopes to get the \"Yavari\", a century-old ship, sailing again. On to Cuzco, he arrives in the middle of the Feast of Corpus Christi. He then journeys to the Inca Empire's lost city of Machu Picchu, and visits a nearby village of Inca descendants. He then catches a train to Quillabamba, and then moves on to Kiteni, where he meets a local pub owner who agrees to go up the Urubamba River with him. After a day or two consisting of sailing and birdwatching, they reach the canyon of Pongo de Mainique. Soon thereafter, they stop and set up camp for the night. Palin later states that Pongo de Mainique was his favourite place to travel in the world.\n\nPalin and his guide approach a Machiguenga village where the feast of St. John the Baptist is going on. Palin observes men's and women's intervillage football matches. Then he samples a drink made from the yucca plant. Back on the Urubamba, Palin eventually makes it to the northern town of Iquitos. Here, there is a barrio that contains many shops. Palin visits one where a lady is making cigarettes. He then takes his first puff of a cigarette in a long while. After a little wait, Palin realises a dream by catching a boat on to the Amazon River.\n\nBogotá, Colombia, is described by Palin as \"trading one jungle for another.\" With a guide, he discovers why the Colombian capital is one of the most dangerous places on earth. He learns that most of the trouble stems from the drug trafficking in the country. He then travels down Bullet Street, arguably the most violent street in the city. Here, rocks are thrown at the car Palin and his guide are travelling in. He then offers to take him to lunch; however, his guide declines, stating that the restaurant he is going to is owned by the father of a drug trafficker. Palin, however, continues, and is granted an interview with horse breeder and close friend of Pablo Escobar, Don Fabio Ochoa, who at one point was the father of 3 men on the FBI's 10 most wanted list. Continuing north, he visits an emerald mine and some of the workers there. Then, it is on to Cartagena, where he hops on a party bus, celebrating the end of his nine weeks on the South American continent.\n\nIn Mexico City, Palin attends a lucha libre match and listens to a lively mariachi band. The next day, he observes the darker side of the city, as a graffiti protest is being led by a lucha libre wrestler named Super Barrio. On to a small village outside of Querétaro, he helps a lady make tortillas. He then catches a bus to the town of Tijuana, where after observing a house in the shape of a woman, he walks to the United States–Mexico border, known as the \"Tortilla Curtain\". Here he observes illegal immigrants \"Pollos\" attempting to enter the United States and evade the Border Patrol. Afterward, Palin crosses the border legally into San Diego and gets a glimpse of the border from the American perspective.\n\nVenturing north to Los Angeles, he gets a bird's-eye view of the city from a local news helicopter reporter. He then becomes involved in a breaking story of a plane approaching Van Nuys Airport landing on the freeway. Driving along the California coast, he reaches San Francisco and the Golden Gate Bridge. He then takes a tour of Alcatraz prison and chats with two former inmates. Then he visits The Castro, known for its homosexual population. Palin's guide introduces him to a local gay policeman and then shows him the place where The NAMES Project originated in 1987. From San Francisco, he flies to Seattle, where he tests a flight simulator at Boeing headquarters.\n\nIn Canada, Palin manages to flag down a train near Vancouver, British Columbia. In the nearby town of Squamish, he is the guest of honour at a loggers sports festival, where he takes part in one of the races. Taking a train north through to Prince George, he realises that the closer he gets to completing the circle, his transportation options dwindle. He reaches Wales Beach, the westernmost point on the North American mainland. However, Little Diomede is still 25 miles away. Then the Coast Guard comes to pick him up and put him on a boat that will attempt to get him there. The weather does not co-operate, and the Coast Guard abandons the attempt. Even though Palin came up two miles short, he believes, in a way, he did close the circle.\n\nIn the DVD interview, Palin said that it was somewhat fitting the circle was not closed, referencing his inability to enter the Reform Club at the end of \"...80 Days\" and not getting on the \"Agulhas\" in \"Pole to Pole\".\n\nDVD Talk gave a highly positive review. The A.V. Club recommended that viewers read the companion book to get the full picture.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931801", "title": "Principle of charity", "text": "Principle of charity\n\nIn philosophy and rhetoric, the principle of charity or charitable interpretation requires interpreting a speaker's statements in the most rational way possible and, in the case of any argument, considering its best, strongest possible interpretation. In its narrowest sense, the goal of this methodological principle is to avoid attributing irrationality, logical fallacies, or falsehoods to the others' statements, when a coherent, rational interpretation of the statements is available. According to Simon Blackburn \"it constrains the interpreter to maximize the truth or rationality in the subject's sayings.\"\n\nThe first to state this hermeneutic principle was Rabbi Meir, a tanna of the fourth generation (139–163), who declared, in Arachin 5b: 'A person does not say things without reason'.\nNeil L. Wilson gave the principle its name in 1958–59. Its main area of application, by his lights, is determining the referent of a proper name:How should we set about discovering the significance which a person attaches to a given name? […] Let us suppose that somebody (whom I am calling \"Charles\") makes just the following five assertions containing the name \"Caesar.\" […]\n(1) Caesar conquered Gaul. (Gc) \n(2) Caesar crossed the Rubicon. (Rc) \n(3) Caesar was murdered on the Ides of March. (Mc) \n[…] And so we act on what might be called the Principle of Charity. We select as designatum that individual which will make the largest possible number of Charles' statements true. […] We might say the designatum is that individual which satisfies more of the asserted matrices containing the word \"Caesar\" than does any other individual. \nWillard Van Orman Quine and Donald Davidson provide other formulations of the principle of charity. Davidson sometimes referred to it as \"the principle of rational accommodation\". He summarized it: \"We make maximum sense of the words and thoughts of others when we interpret in a way that optimises agreement\". The principle may be invoked to make sense of a speaker's utterances when one is unsure of their meaning. In particular, Quine's use of the principle gives it this latter, wide domain.\n\nSince the time of Quine \"et al.\", other philosophers have formulated at least four versions of the principle of charity. These alternatives may conflict with one another, so which principle to use may depend on the goal of the conversation. The four principles are:\n\n\nA related principle is the principle of humanity, which states that we must assume that another speaker's beliefs and desires are connected to each other and to reality in some way, and attribute to him or her \"the propositional attitudes one supposes one would have oneself in those circumstances\" (Daniel Dennett, \"Mid-Term Examination,\" in \"The Intentional Stance\", p. 343).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931805", "title": "Pole to Pole with Michael Palin", "text": "Pole to Pole with Michael Palin\n\nPole to Pole with Michael Palin is an eight-part television documentary travel series made for the BBC, and first broadcast on BBC1 in 1992. The presenter is Michael Palin, this being the second of Palin's major journeys for the BBC. The first was \"Around the World in 80 Days with Michael Palin\", a 7-part series first broadcast on BBC One in 1989, and the third was \"Full Circle with Michael Palin\", a 10-part series first broadcast on BBC One in 1997.\n\nThe trip from the North Pole to the South Pole went via Scandinavia, the Soviet Union, parts of Europe, and through the heart of Africa. The intention was to follow the 30-degree east line of longitude, which would cover the most land. A last-minute diversion to Chile included South America in the series. Using aircraft as little as possible, the whole trip lasted 5½ months.\n\nThe programme has been sold to many television stations around the world. It was also released on video tape and later on DVD. Following the trip, Palin wrote \"Pole to Pole\" describing the trip. The book contains many pictures from the trip, almost all taken by Basil Pao, the stills photographer on the team.\n\nPalin begins at the North Pole, flying there on a small aeroplane fitted with skis. The North Pole scene was filmed in May 1992, after the rest of the series had been shot, as weather conditions were more suitable then as the ice was too fragile the previous year. From there, he heads to Greenland, then the Norwegian island of Spitsbergen, where the towns of Ny Ålesund and Longyearbyen are located. From there he sails across the Barents Sea on a supply ship to the Norwegian port city of Tromsø, where he visits a statue of Roald Amundsen, the first man to reach the South Pole. He also meets some avid Norwegian football fans. In the town of Karasjok, he meets up with the Sami people and pans for gold in the Karasjoka River. From there, Palin travels by bus and crosses the border from Norway to Finland, where he visits Santa Claus at the Santa Claus Village on the Arctic Circle near Rovaniemi. He takes an overnight Finnish train to Helsinki; he relaxes in a sauna near Helsinki with Neil Hardwick and Lasse Lehtinen. Then Palin catches a ferry to Tallinn, his first stop in the Soviet Union. He visits Estonians who sing a song, dreaming of the day when Estonia would again be an independent country. Then Palin catches a train headed for Leningrad.\n\nIn Leningrad, Palin meets up with a Vladimir Lenin impersonator, who gives him a tour of the city. He witnesses a Russian Orthodox baptism ceremony, and almost gets baptised himself. He visits the cemetery where the likes of Mussorgsky, Tchaikovsky, and Fyodor Dostoyevsky are buried, then has the honour of firing the midday gun at the Peter and Paul Fortress. After buying some pears at a local market he experiences the difficulty of trying to buy a bottle of vodka in a supermarket which is \"uncontaminated by food\", a reference to Monty Python's Cheese Shop sketch. In Novgorod, he meets a director who casts him in a film. Then he is invited to a dinner party, eating freshly caught crayfish and drinking 23 toasts with homemade vodka. After participating in a ceremony on behalf of the sister city of Watford (portrayed as a dream) he visits the town of Chernobyl, Ukraine, scene of the 1986 nuclear disaster. He then travels to Kiev and Odessa, where he is wrapped in sulphurous, black mud. At the harbour in Odessa he descends the stairs shown in the film \"Battleship Potemkin\", then boards a ferry and sails across the Black Sea. While on the ferry, Palin learns of the coup that attempted to overthrow Mikhail Gorbachev, which leads to the collapse of the Soviet Union a few months later.\n\nArriving by ferry to Istanbul, Turkey, Palin stays at the Pera Palas, where Agatha Christie wrote \"Murder on the Orient Express\" and experiences a turkish bath, getting the full treatment from a large, mostly silent staff member. He checks out a local bazaar, as well as a procession at Topkapi Palace. He then takes a train through western Turkey to Marmaris and catches ferries to first Rhodes, Greece then to Cyprus. Palin then visits the British military base at Akrotiri and attends a huge Cypriot wedding. From Limassol, Palin heads for North Africa, his home for the next few months. His first stop is Port Said, Egypt, where the filming crew temporarily loses a tripod and has delays with Customs there. Then he crosses paths with his location in \"Around the World in 80 Days\" in Cairo, from where he takes a train to Luxor. Catching a boat up the Nile River, he checks out ancient Egyptian ruins with tourists from Sheffield. From Aswan, he catches a ferry bound for Wadi Halfa and braces himself for what appears to be a rough road ahead.\n\nArriving in Wadi Halfa, Sudan, Palin boards a train bound for Khartoum, the capital. There he learns that he will be unable to journey further south into Sudan due to the ongoing conflict in the southern region of the nation. Seeking an alternative, he finds Eritreans willing to drive him to the border with Ethiopia. While waiting to leave Khartoum he inspects some camels in nearby Omdurman and a Muslim Sufi ceremony where people dance to attain religious ecstasy. When it comes time to leave Khartoum, the journey to the town of Gedaref near the Ethiopian border is hampered by poor road conditions, and the vehicles are repeatedly stuck in the ruts left in the dirt from large trucks that travelled the road in the rainy season, forcing Palin and the other passengers to push them free. Compounding the difficulty, in Ethiopia a long civil war has just ended, resulting in the overthrow of the Derg regime. There was the added risk of rebels from the war hiding near the border. Finally, after spending 24 hours travelling the distance from London to Oxford, 95.56 km (59.4 mi), he arrives at the Ethiopian border.\n\nIn the old Ethiopian capital of Gondar, Palin visits the former home of Emperor Haile Selassie, as well as his pet lion. From there he visits Lake Tana where he learns that one of his guides in Kenya has fallen ill. Then he travels to the current capital of Addis Ababa, where he sees communist symbols being destroyed. He also witnesses a peaceful demonstration turn violent. After a couple of hitchhiking rides he arrives at the Kenya border. He then journeys to Lerata and the school where part of the movie \"The Missionary\" was filmed. As a gift he gives the school the inflatable globe he used in \"Around the World in 80 Days\". In Nairobi he prepares himself for a safari.\n\nIn Kenya Palin takes a hot-air balloon ride. On the ground in the Maasai Mara he observes a lioness and her cubs up close. In Tanzania, he fulfils a lifelong dream by visiting the Ngorongoro Crater. In Dodoma he catches a train bound for the town of Kigoma. In the nearby town of Ujiji he visits the site where David Livingstone and Henry Stanley had their famous meeting. Palin then catches what is believed to be the world's oldest operating ferry: the MV Liemba down Lake Tanganyika to Mpulungu in Zambia.\n\nIn Zambia Palin meets a witch doctor who tells him that he has an \"evil shadow\" and bad things lie ahead for him. He then is given a piece of tree bark to \"wash\" with, supposedly a medicinal aide. Palin journeys down through Zambia, where long-time leader Kenneth Kaunda has just been ousted. He visits the Shiwa Ngandu estate, run by Lorna Harvey (daughter of original owner Sir Stewart Gore-Browne) and her husband John. The Harveys were murdered six months after Palin's visit.\n\nPalin then moves on to Victoria Falls on the Zambezi River, where he goes whitewater rafting. He also tries swimming through some rapids wearing a life jacket, resulting in a cracked rib. One of his suitcases has been lost by the local railway company, and a crew member catches malaria. Palin then decides to take the medicine administered by the witch doctor.\n\nEntering Zimbabwe he visits the tomb of Cecil Rhodes, for whom the country was originally named Rhodesia. Moving on to Bulawayo he meets up with another BBC—the Bulawayo Bowlers Club, and visits a local nightclub. Then he heads towards his last African frontier, between Zimbabwe and South Africa, where apartheid was abolished four months earlier.\n\nWhile in South Africa Palin attends a local football match. In Johannesburg he learns that the \"S. A. Agulhas\", a scientific research ship they were scheduled to take to Antarctica, has no space for them. While the BBC scrambles for alternatives, Palin visits Western Deep Levels Mine, the world's deepest gold mine. In Soweto he meets former South African neighbours of his from London; jazz trombonist Jonas Gwangwa and family. Then he catches the luxurious Blue Train to Cape Town. On top of Table Mountain he regards the southern tip of Africa and reminisces about how the continent changed him from an optimist to a realist. The BBC's efforts to get him on the \"Agulhas\" have failed, and it appears that he will be unable to reach the South Pole.\n\nAlthough he is unable to reach Antarctica via the \"Agulhas\", a travel adventure company is able to take Palin to the South Pole from their base in Chile. This means Palin must abandon the 30 degrees east meridian. Travelling by aeroplane from Cape Town to Santiago via Rio de Janeiro, he listens to an unusual rendition of \"Happy Birthday to You\" from the Presidential Palace where the 1973 coup took place. After having lunch at a fish market with his guide while listening to a panflute player, he is off to Punta Arenas in southern Chile.\n\nFrom there he waits anxiously for the weather conditions to allow the trip to Antarctica. After a couple of days, Palin and the others fly on a 1953-built Douglas DC-6 plane to a base camp at Patriot Hills. While there, he again has to wait for the go-ahead to set off for the South Pole. Finally, after a day, he makes a final flight to the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station and then, at 02:00 New Zealand time on 4 December 1991, Palin sets foot on the South Pole, one of a small number of people who have visited both the North and South Poles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931810", "title": "Around the World in 80 Days with Michael Palin", "text": "Around the World in 80 Days with Michael Palin\n\nAround the World in 80 Days with Michael Palin is a 7-part BBC television travel series first broadcast on BBC1 in 1989. It was presented by comedian and actor Michael Palin. The show was inspired by Jules Verne's classic 1873 novel \"Around the World in Eighty Days\", in which a character named Phileas Fogg accepts a wager to circumnavigate the globe in eighty days or less. Palin was given the same deadline, and not allowed to use aircraft, which did not exist in Jules Verne's time and would make completing the journey far too easy. He followed Phileas Fogg's route as closely as possible. Along the way he commented on the sights and cultures he encountered. Palin encountered several setbacks during his voyage, partly because he travelled with a five-person film crew, who are collectively named after Passepartout, Phileas Fogg's manservant.\n\nThe programme was a critical and commercial success, winning strong ratings in the UK and selling well abroad. It was also released on video tape and later on DVD. Following the trip Michael Palin wrote a book about the experience. This book contains much more detail than could be presented in the TV programme, and Palin's personal views are also more clearly evident. The book contains many pictures from the trip.\n\n\"Around the World in 80 Days\" was the first of a trilogy of globe-crossing series featuring Michael Palin as he visited many countries. The second series was \"Pole to Pole with Michael Palin\" (travelling from the North Pole to the South Pole), an 8-part series first broadcast on BBC One in 1992, and the third was \"Full Circle with Michael Palin\" (the circumnavigation of the Pacific Rim), a 10-part series first broadcast on BBC One in 1997. The series were followed by several similar conceptual travel series featuring Palin as he concentrated on smaller areas of the world. \"Hemingway Adventure\" (following in the footsteps of Ernest Hemingway) first broadcast in 1999, \"Sahara\" (travelling around and through the Sahara Desert) first broadcast in 2002, \"Himalaya\" (travelling around the Himalayas) first broadcast in 2004, \"New Europe\" (travelling around Eastern Europe) first broadcast in 2007, \"Brazil\" first broadcast in 2012, and \"Michael Palin in North Korea\" broadcast in 2018.\n\nThe series was presented in seven episodes.\n\nPalin accepts the offer from the BBC to attempt travelling around the world in 80 days. After setting off from the Reform Club in London, he boards the Orient Express at Victoria Station in London, while reminiscing on his rigorous preparations for his upcoming circumnavigation, which included a daily exercise programme, a chat with seasoned TV traveller Alan Whicker, who was the BBC's (but not the production team's -who deliberately talked him out of it) first choice for the series and would go on to criticise the show; calling it \"A seven-hour ego trip\"), and the purchase of an inflatable globe. He also has dinner with his 'referees', who include Robert Hewison and fellow Pythons Terry Jones and Terry Gilliam. After taking a ferry across the English Channel, Palin crosses the Alps by train before being stopped in Innsbruck due to an Italian railway strike. Arriving in Venice by coach, he helps the local sanitation department clean up the city. After that, he travels through the Corinth Canal to Athens, where he sees the world-renowned evzones, and meets a die-hard Python fan. After a brief stopover in Crete, Alexandria beckons.\n\nPalin arrives in Alexandria, Egypt, and has difficulty getting a train to Cairo. On arrival, he attends a local football match and appears in a cameo role in an Egyptian film. After seeing the Pyramids in Giza and riding a camel named Michael, Palin runs into difficulties when the ship he was supposed to board has engine problems and cannot sail. Even though he is able to take a ferry from the city of Suez to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, he misses a key connection that would have taken him to Muscat. As a last-ditch effort to save the journey, Palin and the director Clem Vallance (and somebody from the British Embassy and a driver for some of the way) are permitted by the Saudi authorities to drive across Saudi Arabia to Dubai, with the rest of the crew (and their problematic camera equipment) making the journey by air. The Saudi Arabia leg of the trip is represented in the TV series only with a few still pictures taken along the way.\n\nPalin recounts his trip from Jeddah to Dubai via Riyadh, and notes that he drove the distance from London to the Black Sea in one weekend.\n\nIn Dubai, the team finds a dhow named the Al-Shama to take them to Bombay. Along the way, Palin bonds with the dhow's crew who were an extended family from the Indian state of Gujarat, letting the oldest one listen to a Bruce Springsteen song on his Walkman, and developing a bad case of diarrhoea, resulting in many trips to the ship's unique open-air latrine. The journey took seven days on what became the most famous part of the whole trip featured in the series.\n\nThe trip on the dhow yielded so much material that the producers gained special permission to craft this extra seventh episode for what was originally planned as a six-episode series. In the interview included with the DVD release, Palin said that he would like to meet the dhow's crew and thank them again for their gracious hospitality, though he remarks that he may never see them again. In September 2008, Palin announced on his official website that he would be travelling to Gujarat in an attempt to locate the crew and reunite with them. Palin succeeded in finding them and this journey was chronicled in the BBC television documentary, \"Around the World in 20 Years\".\n\nIn Bombay, Palin finds himself a week behind Phileas Fogg. After getting a quick shave from a blind barber under a tree and seeing a snake charmer's cobra, he is able to get a train ticket to Madras in south-eastern India. Before leaving Bombay, he visits astrologer Jagjit Uppal who, after giving him a chart for a baby to be born to one of his referees, Robert Hewison, tells him he will complete the journey on time, possibly even ahead of schedule and that time lost will be made up throughout the voyage. He also suggests that this will be just the first of many epic journeys Palin will make over the coming years.\n\nPalin then embarks on the Indian Railways express line called the \"Southern Express\" for Madras in Tamil Nadu state. On the way, it stops in Pune, where Palin talks about his father winning two rowing cups there in 1923. In Madras, he has difficulty finding a connecting boat to Singapore. Eventually, an \"...Anglo-German-Indo-Yugoslav agreement the UN would have been proud of\" was reached and Palin sets off on a Yugoslavian freighter, eleven days behind. The agreement allowed only Palin and the cameraman Nigel Meakin to travel aboard the ship, and on condition that they worked as deckhands. That meant that Palin had to take a \"crash course in sound recording\" so they could film aboard the ship. Arriving in Singapore, Palin worries whether or not his connecting boat from Singapore has sailed. If it had, it would have been impossible to complete the journey in eighty days.\n\nPalin later reunited with the captain of the Croatian ship in Rijeka, Croatia, during filming of his \"New Europe\" series. This meeting was not shown in the original broadcast of the series but it is on the deleted scenes on the DVD.\n\nPalin finds that the ship had indeed sailed from Singapore. However, quite fortunately, it was only four miles from shore and Palin was able to make it on board using a fast motorboat. While in Hong Kong, he has a big win betting on a horse race, is attacked by a cockatoo and meets up with his friend, photographer Basil Pao. He attends a party thrown in his honour at the halfway point (in terms of days) in the journey. Then it is on to Guangzhou for a dinner of shredded cobra and then a train journey to Shanghai. On the train, he is asked by a Chinese businesswoman if he carries an umbrella all the time. Palin replies, \"I just get wet.\" He also collects the roofing tile requested by Terry Gilliam from a very old railway station.\n\nIn Shanghai, Palin gets some herbal remedies to help him on the rest of his trip. He and Basil Pao take in a Chinese jazz band. After parting with Pao the next day, Palin takes a Chinese ferry to Yokohama, where he rides the world-famous shinkansen train to Tokyo. Here he meets David Powers, a British journalist, and is taken to a sushi bar and then a karaoke bar, where he sings a duet of \"You Are My Sunshine\". After spending the night in a capsule hotel, he boards a container ship to cross the Pacific Ocean. The journey takes eleven days and is very dull, enlivened only by a game of pass the parcel with the Singaporean crew, and the crossing of the International Date Line. Palin partakes in an unusual ceremony to commemorate crossing the line, involving getting doused in tomato paste and flour, and drinking a strange cocktail containing many ingredients, among others, \"eggs, curry powder, cocoa...\". Palin suggests that some people involved in the ceremony had watched \"Full Metal Jacket\" to prepare for it.\n\nArriving in Long Beach, California only two days behind Fogg, Palin spends his first night in America aboard the permanently berthed \"Queen Mary\". After a few days, he boards Amtrak's \"Desert Wind\" in Los Angeles and travels to Glenwood Springs, Colorado in the Rocky Mountains. He takes a hot-air balloon ride and a dog sled trip in Aspen, Colorado. After a nerve-wracking delay he realises he probably should have stayed on the Chicago-bound train. Eventually arriving in New York City (Palin was actually supposed to depart North America from Nova Scotia, Canada, as he mentions earlier in the film, but the reason for the substitution for New York is not mentioned in either the film or the book, although the delay due to the stopover in Colorado is a probable cause). However, in the first episode it is mentioned that departure from either New York City or Nova Scotia would be where the final leg of the journey would take place. He boards the final ship of his journey dead even with Phileas Fogg on day 71. This container ship takes eight days to cross the Atlantic Ocean, and after a quick lunch in Le Havre, Palin arrives in Felixstowe, touching Great Britain for the first time in two and a half months. A few train connections later he arrives at his starting point, the Reform Club in London, but is not allowed in to film. The journey ends 79 days and 7 hours after it began. The closing credits show Palin chatting with his referees as he presents the souvenirs requested by them at the beginning to ceremonially prove his accomplishment.\nThe journey around the world lasted from 25 September to 12 December 1988. Palin travelled through the following countries by foot, train, ship, balloon, and husky dog, amongst other methods of transport (except for aircraft): United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Austria, Italy, Greece, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, India, Singapore, Hong Kong, China, Japan, and the United States.\n\nOnly four members of Palin's film crew completed the circumnavigation: Clem Vallance, Roger Mills (the directors), Angela Elbourne, and Ann Holland (the production assistants). The three others who started with him left when they got to Hong Kong, and were replaced by others. Strictly speaking, it was only Palin who obeyed the rules of the journey, as the production team was not allowed on the road trip across Saudi Arabia and Qatar (Palin and Clem Vallance did this stretch) or on the Croatian ship (Palin and Nigel Meakin did this stretch). The remainder of the team flew on these stretches. During the Jeddah to Dubai episode, Palin managed to snap a few pictures which are seen in the documentary.\n\nWhile preparing for the journey, Palin had a chat with renowned documentarist Alan Whicker. In the book and an interview on the DVD, Palin mentions that Whicker had been the BBC's first choice of presenter, but he and two others (Miles Kington and Noel Edmonds) had declined; Palin was fourth on the BBC's list.\n\nOn 30 December 2008, the BBC aired a special one-hour documentary entitled \"Around the World in 20 Years\". In it, Michael Palin goes in search of the crew of the \"Al Shama\", the dhow which carried him from Dubai to Bombay (now Mumbai) some 20 years ago. After an extensive search involving the shipping company that owned \"Al Shama\", Palin tracks them to the city of Mandvi in Gujarat. There, Palin finds the captain of \"Al Shama\" himself, along with five other members of the crew. Sadly, two of the original crew members had died in the intervening years, one of them being the older man whom Palin had let listen to Bruce Springsteen on his Walkman. Palin also discovers that the \"Al Shama\" had sunk in the Indian Ocean while being towed for repairs years before. The production crew are the same people as on \"80 Days\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1931828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931828", "title": "Manfred von Brauchitsch", "text": "Manfred von Brauchitsch\n\nManfred Georg Rudolf von Brauchitsch (15 August 1905 – 5 February 2003) was a German auto racing driver who drove for Mercedes-Benz in the famous \"Silver Arrows\" of Grand Prix motor racing in the 1930s.\n\nBrauchitsch won three Grands Prix - the 1934 ADAC Eifelrennen which saw the first appearance of Silver Arrows Mercedes Race cars, the 1937 Monaco Grand Prix (considered his greatest victory), and the 1938 French Grand Prix. His fastest lap in the 1937 Monaco race (1 minute 46.5 seconds, 11.9 seconds faster than the old record lap) set a record that stood for 18 years.\nHe was twice runner-up in the European Championship, in 1937 and 1938, and finished third in 1939.\n\nHe was noted for his red helmet and his bad luck, losing a number of other Grands Prix when he was on the very verge of winning (no less than five, by some counts). His most famous loss was the 1935 German Grand Prix, when a tire blew while he was leading the last lap, handing victory to Tazio Nuvolari in an Alfa Romeo in one of the latter's most famous victories - the only time during the reign of the Silver Arrows when a Grand Prix was won by a car other than a Mercedes or Auto Union.\n\nBrauchitsch was born in Hamburg, of an old military family (his uncle was the famous World War II general Walther von Brauchitsch). He entered the German Reichswehr after World War I, but after a serious accident he was invalided out in 1928. Due to his many racing injuries, he was rejected for military service in World War II. While working during the war, he met his first wife, Gisela. He became a member of the National Socialist Motor Corps, in which he held the rank of \"Sturmführer\".\n\nFollowing World War II, being the son and nephew of military officers was not of much practical use in West Germany. After several failed businesses, Brauchitsch contacted Caracciola, who gave him contacts in South America. Unable to settle there, he returned to West Germany embittered and became a target for the communists of East Germany. Again unable to settle, he returned to West Germany, where he was arrested and charged with espionage. In 1951, he was jailed and then released on bail.\n\nDuring a bail period in 1955, Brauchitsch defected to East Germany; his wife Gisela committed suicide a year later. He was put in charge of the East German national motor sport organisation, as well as becoming president of its movement to promote the Olympic ideal. The latter led to his being awarded the Olympic Order in 1988 by the International Olympic Committee.\n\nBrauchitsch later remarried, to Lieselotte, and they were permitted to visit West Germany occasionally. Following the death of Hermann Lang in 1987, Brauchitsch was regarded as the last surviving member of the pre-war \"Silver Arrow\" drivers. He died in Gräfenwarth in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931832", "title": "Earl Warren College", "text": "Earl Warren College\n\nEarl Warren College is one of six undergraduate colleges at the University of California, San Diego. Warren College has one of the largest student populations at UCSD, with over 4,000 undergraduate students, comprising about one fifth of the student population. It is named for former California Governor and Chief Justice Earl Warren. Warren College was founded in 1974. \n\nEach of the residence halls within Warren College is named after justices that sat on the U.S. Supreme Court along with Chief Justice Warren. Residence halls are located near the ecological reserve, a canyon filled with eucalyptus trees and hiking trails.\n\nResidence Halls include:\n\n\nApartments for both first and second year students include:\n\n\nThere are also graduate student apartments available at the Warren Campus.\n\nWarren College has various student organizations. These include: Warren College Student Council (WCSC), Warren College Events Board, Warren Transfer and Commuter Commission (WTCC), Commission on Warren Spirit (COWS), Frosh Small Group, Provost's Student Advisory Council (PSAC), Warren College Honors Council, Warren Initiative for Student Health (WISH), and Warren Association of Volunteer Enthusiasts (WAVE).\n\nThe Warren College campus is also home to an enormous rock sculpture in the shape of a bear, known as \"Bearl,\" located on the engineering quad.\n\nReflecting Earl Warren's tenure as Chief Justice, Warren College's official motto is \"Toward a life in balance.\"\n\nWarren College emphasizes the importance of living a balanced life and creating a balanced education. Warren College has general education requirements that are easy to individualize, though the campus-wide requirement of two writing courses still holds. While the number of classes required is no less than the other five colleges, one often has more freedom in choosing classes.\n\nAll courses are organized into three disciplines, (1) math/physical sciences, (2) social sciences, and (3) the humanities. Warren College allows students to pursue a major of their choice in any discipline while requiring the completion of two Programs of Concentration (PofCs) in the other two disciplines. Each Program of Concentration is composed of six courses, of 4-units, (e.g., a history major could take six classes in political science and six classes in biology as well).\n\nStudent looking towards an Engineering, B.S. degree, however, are required to complete two Area Studies (A/S), each comprising three courses of 4-units, at least two of which must be upper-division courses. Similar to PofCs, Area Studies must be non-contiguous to the student's major and to each other. \n\nWarren College is home to a large number of engineering students because its general education requirements are more flexible for students pursuing an undergraduate degree in engineering. \n\nIn 2006, the college has added a new building dedicated to the study of Information Technology, called Calit2.\n\nWarren College's writing program consists of a two-quarter sequence based on the model of argumentation developed by British philosopher Stephen Toulmin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931835", "title": "Coat of arms of Venezuela", "text": "Coat of arms of Venezuela\n\nThe current coat of arms of Venezuela was primarily approved by the Congress on April 18, 1836, undergoing small modifications through history, reaching the present version.\n\nThe coat of arms was established in the Law of the National Flag, Shield and Anthem (\"Ley de Bandera, Escudo e Himno Nacionales\"), passed on February 17, 1954, by the military governor of Venezuela, Marcos Pérez Jiménez. The shield is divided in the colors of the national flag. In the dexter chief, on a red field, wheat represents the union of the 20 states of the Republic existing at the time and the wealth of the nation. In sinister chief, on a yellow field, weapons (a sword, a sabre and three lances) and two national flags are tied by a branch of laurel, as a symbol of triumph in war. In base, on a deep blue field, a wild white horse (perhaps representing Simón Bolívar's white horse \"Palomo\") runs free, an emblem of independence and freedom.\n\nAbove the shield are two crossed cornucopias (horns of plenty), pouring out wealth. The shield is flanked by an olive branch and another of palm, both tied at the bottom of the coat with a large band that represents the national tricolour (yellow for the nation's wealth, blue for the ocean separating Venezuela from Spain, and red for the blood and courage of the people). The following captions appear in golden letters on the blue stripe:\n\nOn March 27, 2006, the National Assembly approved changes to the coat of arms and the flag of Venezuela, which were made official on March 12, 2006, coinciding with Flag Day. Prior to 2006, the horse was running to the sinister side of the shield with its head turned to the dexter (to the viewer, this appears as the horse galloping towards his right and looking back to the left). In heraldic practice, animals and beasts are to appear facing to the dexter, which is considered the natural and honorable position. \"The Economist\" observed that Hugo Chávez ordered the seal changed after his daughter, Rosinés Chávez Rodríguez, had described the previous horse as “looking backwards”. Government supporters state, however, that even if the president's daughter was the one who sparked the discussion, both the legislative and executive branch agreed to changes. These were adding a machete to represent the peasant fighters during the revolutionary wars in Venezuela since the War of Independence, and a bow and arrow as a tribute to the brave indigenous population who resisted the Spanish conquistadors.\n\nMany critics have suggested that the horse, now running to the dexter (to the viewer's left) is a political statement of the current left-wing government of President Hugo Chávez. Previously in the Venezuelan arms adopted in 1863, the horse was moving as it is seen today, to the dexter (the viewer's left). Also to note is that in heraldry, positions are not described from the viewer's point of view, but rather the shield's, so while the horse appears to be galloping left to one observing the arms, the horse is actually galloping to the dexter, or right, side of the shield. This symbolizes Venezuela as the first of the independent states of South America, and Simon Bolivar's campaigns of liberation for all of Latin America, which started here in 1811 (with Venezuela's Declaration of Independence and the earlier Caracas Junta of 1810) and ended with his final victory in the Battle of Ayacucho on December 9, 1824, all the while riding his white horse Palomo.\n\nPolitical opponents have also claimed that in addition to being politically motivated, the changes were economically wasteful. At the time of the official unveiling, the opposition party stated that they will not use the new flag or coat of arms, but retain the old and employ them in demonstrations against the government. However, by 2008, and with a slightly improved political climate, the new coat of arms and flag have been generally accepted among the population and opposition.\n\nHeraldist Fabio Cassani Pironti, commissioned by the National Assembly, made the reform of the National coats of arms.\n\nIn heraldic descriptions \"dexter\" means to the \"right\" from the viewpoint of the bearer of the shield, i.e. the viewer's left; \"sinister\" means \"left\" from the viewpoint of the bearer of the shield, i.e. the viewer's right.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931836", "title": "Therese Neumann", "text": "Therese Neumann\n\nTherese Neumann (9 April 1898 – 18 September 1962) was a German Catholic mystic and stigmatic.\n\nShe was born in the village of Konnersreuth in Bavaria, Germany, where she lived all her life. She was born into a large family with little income. She was a member of the Third Order of St. Francis.\n\nOn 11 March 1918, Therese Neumann was partially paralyzed after falling off a stool while attending to a fire in her uncle's barn. She sustained more falls and injuries during this period. After one particular fall she claimed to have lost much of her eyesight, and in 1919 she claimed to have been blinded completely. Bedridden, she reportedly developed horrible bed sores that sometimes exposed bone.\n\nTherese reported that her eyesight was restored on 29 April 1923—the day Therese of Lisieux was beatified in Rome. Therese Neumann had been praying novenas in advance of this day. On 17 May 1925 Therese of Lisieux was fully canonized as a saint in the Catholic Church. Therese Neumann said the saint called to her and then cured her of her paralysis and bed sores.\n\nOn 7 November 1925 Neumann took to her bed again, and on 13 November claimed to have been diagnosed with appendicitis. According to her account, while prepared for surgery she convulsed violently and stared at the ceiling finally saying, \"Yes.\" She asked her family to take her to the church to pray immediately. She then announced that she had been cured of all traces of appendicitis.\n\nPhysicians and skeptics have disputed Neumann's claims of miraculous cures. According to skeptical investigator Joe Nickell on one occasion Neumann claimed to have healed herself from blindness, but whilst \"blind\" she was examined and her pupils responded normally to light. Nickell suspected that Neumann's claims were performed by \"hysterical hypochondria\" or \"outright fakery\".\n\nTherese would later apparently develop the stigmata. She said that on 5 March 1926, the first Friday of Lent, a wound had appeared slightly above her heart, but that she had kept this secret. However, she did report a vision of Jesus at Mount of Olives with three Apostles.\n\nOn 12 March, she said she had another vision of Christ at Mt. Olivet, along with the crowning of thorns. She also claimed that the wound above her heart reappeared on this day, and she spoke to her sister about it. She claimed the wound also reappeared on Friday of the following week. By 26 March, she was claiming the same wound accompanied by a vision of Christ bearing the cross and a similar wound on her left hand. Blood was observed on her clothing, and she no longer attempted to keep the information to herself.\n\nOn Good Friday, Neumann, according to her own testimony witnessed the entire Passion of Christ in her visions. She displayed wounds on her hands and feet accompanied by blood apparently coming from her eyes. Blood poured from the wounds, however - according to Josef Hanauer's book \"The Swindle of Konnersreuth\" - onlookers did not actually see the bleeding in action, only the blood itself.\n\nOn Easter Sunday, she claimed a vision of the resurrection of Christ. For several consecutive Fridays after that, she stated she was experiencing the Passion of Christ, apparently suffering in her own body along with all his historic agonies. She claimed to have especially suffered the Passion on Good Friday each year.\n\nOn 22–23 March 1928 Neumann's stigmata claims were investigated at her home by a group of observers including bishops and physicians. Professor Martini the director of the University Hospital Bonn observed Neumann and wrote a report about her stigmata. He found her behaviour suspicious as the blood would only appear from her wounds when he was asked to leave the room. According to Martini:\n\n\"The fact that two or three times the observers were made to go out just at the moment when a fresh effusion of blood evidently came to cover the wounds arouses the suspicion, on the contrary, that during this time something happened which needed to be hidden from observation. It was for the same reason that I disliked her frequent manipulations behind the raised coverings.\"\n\nA psychoanalytic study of Neumann has suggested that her stigmata resulted from post-traumatic stress symptoms expressed in unconscious self-mutilation through abnormal autosuggestibility.\n\nFrom 1923 until her death in 1962, Therese Neumann professed to have consumed no food other than The Holy Eucharist, nor to have drunk any water from 1926 until her death.\n\nMontague Summers in his book \"The Physical Phenomena of Mysticism\" speaks of her supposedly supernatural ability to survive for long periods without food or water.\n\nIn July 1927, Neumann's claims of inedia were examined at her house. She was physically examined and tested by the physician Otto Seidl and four Franciscan nurses, for fifteen days (July 14 to 28). Neumann was not observed to have eaten anything, however, suspicion was generated. At the beginning she had weighed 121 pounds which dropped during the test period to 112.5 pounds. By the last day her weight had returned to normal. Historian Ian Wilson commented the evidence indicated that Neumann \"went back to normal food and drink intake\". The test was never repeated and her family denied permission for any further tests.\n\nWilson found the inedia claims of Neumann suspicious. He noted that she \"had a vigorous, stocky build throughout most of this time, and all reason tells us that it would be impossible to survive so long without food or drink.\"\n\nOtto Seidl who wrote a report in 1928, described Neumann as a hysteric. A recent medical paper that examined Seidl's report commented that \"while under surveillance by four nuns for 14 days, Neumann exhibited no intake of nourishment; weight measurements and urine tests however suggest[ed] the opposite... As far as medical records go, Therese Neumann's is one of a series of surprisingly similar cases of stigmata development, conversion disorder, and alleged absence of nutrition. In nosological terms, these would be classified today as dissociative disorders.\"\n\nPsychologist Donovan Rawcliffe disputed Neumann's inedia claims and suggested she was a \"deliberate fraud aided and abetted by her father.\"\n\nIt was claimed that during some of her Friday trances, she would utter phrases identified by witnesses as ancient Aramaic. She was also said to have been able to understand Hebrew, Greek, and Latin.\n\nDuring the Third Reich, Therese Neumann was the target of ridicule and defamation, as the Nazis knew about her dissenting views and feared her growing popularity. She was observed by the Gestapo. She was never physically harmed, though her family home, parish church and priest's house all received direct attacks. She encouraged Fritz Gerlich to continue his opposition to Hitler and his national-socialist party. Gerlich was subsequently killed for his opposition.\n\nParamahansa Yogananda visited her and wrote about her case in his book \"Autobiography of a Yogi\", published in 1946. He wrote an entire chapter, , which reverently gives a vivid first-hand description of one of her Friday Passion trances.\n\nReinhard Lorenz from Meißen (R.L.M.), a medium from the New Salems Society, received a message about Neumann in 1929, allegedly coming from God the Father. It was published in \"Das Wort\", the periodical of the movement.\n\nOn 18 September 1962, Therese Neumann died from cardiac arrest, after having suffered from angina pectoris for some time.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has neither confirmed nor denied the inedia (from which she suffered according to her critics), nor her stigmata. The \"Resl\", as she is colloquially known, nonetheless attained a place in popular piety — a petition asking for her beatification was signed by 40,000 people. In 2005, Gerhard Ludwig Müller, Bishop of Regensburg, formally opened the Vatican proceedings for her beatification.\n\n\nBooks\n\n\nPapers\n\n"}
{"id": "1931844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931844", "title": "Stamford High School (Stamford, Connecticut)", "text": "Stamford High School (Stamford, Connecticut)\n\nStamford High School is a high school, founded in 1873, in Stamford, Connecticut. It is one of three public high schools in the Stamford Public Schools district, along with Westhill High School and AITE. One famous alumnus is U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman.\n\nIn 1878 the Stamford Town Committee decided to create a high school for the growing community after deciding there was the lack of sufficient secondary education. They created Stamford High School the following year in a single rented room. Students attending SHS starting in 1874 had one teacher who taught reading, spelling, arithmetic, grammar, history, and philosophy. Drawing, Latin, Greek, physical geography, and geometry were added to the curriculum in 1876.\n\nIn 1881 four young women comprised the first graduating class. By 1886 increasing enrollment forced a move into a new four-room building on the site of the former Franklin Elementary School. Ten years later, in 1896, a new high school building was completed on Forest Street. To attend, students were required to pass entrance examinations in five subjects, and out of 40 applicants, only 15 were accepted. SHS gradually relaxed its requirements, and by 1905, entrance examinations were eliminated. The multiplying number of students at SHS once again made a move necessary.\n\nThe school moved from the site of the since-demolished Burdick Junior High School to its present location on Strawberry Hill Avenue in 1928. SHS now consists of three buildings which house over 100 regular classrooms along with special rooms for science labs, computer labs and shops for woodworking and automobile-repair classes.\n\nWith the start of the new school year in September 2006, a $21 million addition to the building was opened after 18 months of construction. The addition has 22 classrooms, five science labs, a computer lab, a multi-purpose room, a gymnasium and locker rooms. The addition also features wireless computer access and a drop-off area for entering students near Strawberry Hill Avenue.\n\nThe new addition was part of $59 million in upgrades for the school begun in 1997, including replacing four boilers, new roofs and expanding the school cafeteria by . Increasing enrollment in the city school system spurred the upgrades, and Westhill High School also received them.\n\nThe school's extracurricular activities include mock-trial and debate teams, student liaisons to the Board of Education, multicultural groups, various team sports, chapters of buildOn, the Future Business Leaders of America, National Art Honor Society, and National Honor Society, debate, Strawberry Hill Players theater troupe, String Ensemble, and the Stamford High School Concert Band, whose members are part of the Black Knights Marching Band, Jazz Band and Percussion Ensemble.\n\nThe Strawberry Hill Players perform two major productions throughout the year: one in the fall (usually a dramatic play), and another in the spring (a mainstage full musical). Additionally, every January SHP produces a series of short, student-directed one-act plays called \"Senior Scenes\". The goal of the production is to allow the program's graduating seniors to try their hand at directing, under the supervision and guidance of a working director. The Strawberry Hill Players also participate in the annual Connecticut Drama Association Festival, and have won numerous individual and team awards at the competition. In addition to the main program, The Strawberry Hill Players have an improv group that goes by the acronym of SHIP. The group produces a few improv shows a year and draws from the greater pool of membership involved in the more formal theater program.\n\nThe school's halls have in recent years been adorned with numerous paintings by students, depicting various figures including the black knight mascot. The school's cafeteria is decorated on one wall by a large mural of the school's facade and scenes of student life, painted in 1997 by members of the Strawberry Hill Players technical crew. Murals from the 1930s also adorn the \"small auditorium\" in Stamford High, having been uncovered and restored in the 1990s.\n\nStamford High School offers 24 varsity sports. These include football, boys' and girls' soccer, boys' and girls' cross country, cheerleading, volleyball, girls' swimming, and field hockey in the fall; boys' and girls' basketball, ice hockey, wrestling, boys' and girls' indoor track, cheerleading, and boys' swimming in the winter; and baseball, softball, boys' and girls' tennis, boys' and girls' track, boys' and girls' lacrosse, and golf in the spring.\n\nEach year on December 7, a 9-by-17-foot American flag that flew over the USS Arizona Memorial is to be flown from the flagpole in front of the school as part of a memorial ceremony for Pearl Harbor Day. Everett Hyland, an alumnus of the school who was wounded in the attack, donated the flag in 2007 on condition that it be raised each year on that date. At the first ceremony, in 2007, a small group of veterans attended, some of them speaking to the school's students about the event. \"It's one thing to read a book that 2,400 people died,\" Doug MacLehose, head of the school's history department, told a newspaper reporter. \"Talking to someone who was there or can remember is very powerful.\"\n\nSome graduates of Stamford High School have become well known in the world at large.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931852", "title": "June 13 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 13 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 12 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 14\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on June 26 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 13th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on May 30.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "1931856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931856", "title": "Cove Island Park", "text": "Cove Island Park\n\nCove Island Park is an 83-acre park, beach and recreation area in the Cove section of Stamford, Connecticut, located on Long Island Sound.\n\nAccess to the park requires a parking pass. The city's Park Commission charges Stamford residents with valid Stamford car registrations can buy a season pass for $25 at Government Center, the non-resident fee is $225.\n\n\nThe area known as the Cove consists of the peninsula bordered by on the west by the Shippan neighborhood of Stamford and on the east by Holly Pond, which, along with the Noroton River, divides Stamford from Darien, Connecticut. Cove Island is detached from shore on the East end of the Cove. It is linked to the mainland by two bridges, one of which is accessible by motor vehicles. The park's parking lot is located on the Cove peninsula, across from Cove Island, and the western part of the park surrounds the parking lot.\n\nThe park contains a diversity of habitats: roughly 30% estuary, 20% pond/lake, 10% deciduous forest, 10% shrub, 10% grassland, 10% salt marsh, 5% field, and 5% non-tidal freshwater marsh.\n\nStamford's September 11th Memorial is located within the park.\nSince 2000 the park has been the headquarters of SoundWaters, a nonprofit environmental education organization that offers a free small aquarium, music, canoe trips, school trips, and family activities on land and aboard an schooner.\n\nThe Audubon Society considers the park to be an Important Bird Area (IBA), one of 27 in the state. The park is known to contain a wide diversity of wildlife, including over 50 species of butterfly and 287 species of birds.\n\nInside the sanctuary entrance, visitors find an information kiosk featuring brochures, seasonal photos of flora and fauna, and a chalkboard to share new bird sightings. Beyond the kiosk is a native grass and wildflower meadow encircled by a handicap-accessible visitors' path that leads to a beach-side viewing area from which visitors can observe shorebirds without encroaching upon Stamford's last undeveloped sand dune. The meadow path connects to a rugged trail which winds through woods along the west border of the park.\n\nCove Island became separated from the mainland after a flour watermill was expanded by its owners in the late 1700s. Ownership of the land transferred to Henry J. Sanford in the late 1830s, who founded Stamford Manufacturing Co. in 1844, which operated the Cove's mills and manufactured dye extracts, bleached minerals, licorice. The factory on Cove Island stayed in business until 1919, when it burned down, with the Stamford Advocate calling it the most damaging fire in city history.\n\nOver time, the island was converted to a park by the City of Stamford, with the United States Army Corps of Engineers developing the island's beach in the late 1950s.\n\nThe park was flooded during Hurricane Sandy in 2012, with Stamford's parks and beaches suffering $2.5 million in total damages from the storm. The City of Stamford and conservation groups have worked with national experts on a comprehensive long-term plan for the park in light of environmental risks.\n\nIn 2015 the jogging trail was the scene of a sexual assault. The incident led to the installation of an emergency phone and security cameras at the park.\n\nIn March 2018, a man was found frozen to death at the park.\n\nIn July 2018, mosquitos at the park tested positive for West Nile virus.\n\nThe movie \"Reservation Road\" was filmed at the park, including the opening scene of an outdoor concert and a climactic scene near the end. Weed Avenue, just north of the park, was used in two scenes where a character jogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931858", "title": "Quebec Autoroute 70", "text": "Quebec Autoroute 70\n\nAutoroute 70, or A-70, is a short Autoroute located in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region of northern Quebec. It is the only Autoroute that does not connect to any other Autoroutes, although other Autoroutes have discontiguous segments such as A-20 and A-30. A-70 was first created in 1983, and has since been extended three times. \n\nA-70 is long, however extensions are being constructed in both directions. A-70 is only partially completed; it acts primarily as a bypass route around the urban area of Saguenay. The route was slow to develop; until 2001 it was an extremely short stub, fewer than long.\n\nA-70 is being extended westward to Alma and eastward to La Baie. A new alignment has already been determined for the westernmost section of A-70, and the central section (part of Route 170) is already a four-lane divided highway; service roads will be constructed as it is not limited access. The proposed route for the eastern section has also been determined and has been built to the Saguenay-Bagotville Airport.\n\nThe ultimate length of A-70 will be around .\n\nThe A-70 was designed to provide a limited-access highway link between Alma and La Baie. The autoroute has been built in increments since the early 1980s. It took nearly ten years for the first eight kilometers to be built. During the 1990s, highway planners modified the plans. Rather than building A-70 to parallel Route 170 between 8e Rang in Saint-Bruno (km 5) and St-Benedict Road (km 25), instead Route 170 was rebuilt as a four-lane divided highway. This extension of A-70 was completed by 1999. Three years later, an additional 17 kilometres were opened, connecting this rebuilt section of Route 170 with the original portion of A-70.\n\nTo date, of highway remain to be completed of the freeway link between Alma and La Baie. Transports Québec has conducted a feasibility study for the western section while continuing to acquire property to provide a right of way.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931863", "title": "War of the Camps", "text": "War of the Camps\n\nThe War of the Camps () was a subconflict within the 1984–1990 phase of the Lebanese Civil War, in which the Palestinian refugee camps in Beirut were besieged by the Shia Amal militia.\n\nSometimes described as being Muslim versus Christian, the Lebanese Civil War was actually a multifaceted conflict in which there was nearly as much inter-factional violence between members of the same religion as there was violence between Muslims and Christians. In that respect, the conflict can be compared to the one between the Lebanese Forces (LF), a primarily Christian Maronite militia led by Samir Geagea, and Michel Aoun's Christian-controlled faction of the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF).\n\nIn the wake of the creation of the state of Israel and the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees fled to Southern Lebanon. A few Palestinians with skills and capital were allowed to reside in cities and live dignified lives; the majority, however were destitute peasants who could only offer their unskilled work to the Lebanese economy, and were kept in squalid refugee camps near the main cities.\n\nEven before the establishment of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) in 1964, exiled Palestinian intellectuals residing in Lebanon and other Arab countries began to form clandestine paramilitary groups in the late 1950s, which later evolved into the main PLO guerrilla factions. In Lebanon, some of these groups would later raise roadblocks where Lebanese people were forced to pay \"tolls\" to support the Palestinian cause. This alienated important sectors of the native population, in particular the Christian Maronite and Shia communities. Beginning in the late 1960s, Palestinian factions also gradually turned the Jabal Amel region of Southern Lebanon into a \"de facto\" state of their own, using it as a base for launching guerrilla attacks on Israel. Although in time the Shia community would support the Palestinians in their struggle against Israel, the PLO's and the more radical Rejectionist Front groups' behavior in Southern Lebanon made many Lebanese Shias resent the Palestinian presence. The Palestinians put the Shias of the Jabal Amel at risk by attacking the Israelis from Lebanon, which in turn invited harsh retribution from the Israel Defense Forces (IDF). In 1978, the IDF invaded Southern Lebanon (Operation Litani) in response to the guerrilla attacks made by the PLO from South Lebanon.\n\nIsrael's second invasion of Lebanon in June 1982 succeeded in driving thousands of Palestinian fighters under the command of PLO Chairman Yassir Arafat out of Southern Lebanon and West Beirut. Under international auspices, PLO forces were evacuated to northern Lebanon and re-settled in the port city of Tripoli. By this time, however, Syrian President Hafez al-Assad proceeded to expel Arafat and the Palestinian factions allied to him from Lebanon. Israel's 1982 invasion led to its beginning a 20-year-long occupation of Lebanon, resulting in the formation of Hezbollah.\n\nAssad sought to control both the PLO and Lebanon. He worried that Palestinian guerrilla activities would invite another Israeli invasion and that his minority Alawite regime in Sunni-majority Syria would be endangered by the advancement of the (mostly Sunni) Palestinians. Initially, the Syrian government encouraged its favoured Palestinian groups to compete for influence, facilitating the entrance of as-Sa'iqa, PFLP-GC, and the pro-Syrian dissident Fatah faction under Colonel Said al-Muragha (Abu Musa). However, Syria's allies were strong only in the areas controlled by the Syrian Army, such as the Beqaa valley. In the areas beyond Syria's control, however, it soon became apparent that Palestinian organizations such as Fatah, PFLP and DFLP had far stronger support.\n\nAssad recruited Said al-Muragha to drive Arafat and his loyalist fighters out of Lebanon. Musa, himself a former member of Fatah, used Arafat's public willingness to negotiate with Israel as a pretext for war. In November 1983, Musa's Fatah al-Intifada (Fatah-Uprising) faction fought the Arafatist Fatah for a month at Tripoli, until Arafat once again was on his way to Tunisia by December. Unfortunately for Assad, Arafat's Fatah forces quietly returned to Lebanon over the next two years, ensconcing themselves in the many refugee camps in Beirut and the South.\n\nAs more Palestinians regrouped in the South, Assad's anxiety grew, as he didn't want to give Israel a pretext for another invasion. This time, Assad recruited the more powerful Shia Amal Movement militia headed by Nabih Berri to dislodge Arafat's loyalists. Assad benefited from this alliance, which enabled him to exert a greater degree of control over Lebanese affairs through his local Lebanese allies. The benefit for Amal was revenge for decades of Palestinian arrogance and the opportunity of gaining further control over Shia-populated areas of Lebanon.\n\nBy mid-1985 Amal was also in conflict with the Druze Progressive Socialist Party (PSP) and its militia, the People's Liberation Army (PLA), led by Walid Jumblatt in the mountainous Chouf region. As Amal-PSP relations severely deteriorated, the Palestinian alliance with the Druze PSP was re-established. Unlike the majority of other Lebanese leftist militias, the Communist Action Organization in Lebanon (OCAL), led by Muhsin Ibrahim, refused to cooperate with Syria in its attempts to vanquish Arafat. This refusal brought the wrath of the Syrians on the OCAL, forcing them to operate underground from 1987 onwards.\n\nAllied with the pro-Arafat Palestinian refugee camp militias, were the Al-Mourabitoun, the Sixth of February Movement, the Communist Action Organization in Lebanon (OCAL), and the Kurdish Democratic Party – Lebanon (KDP-L), who faced a powerful coalition of Druze Progressive Socialist Party (PSP), Lebanese Communist Party (LCP), and Shia Muslim Amal movement militia forces backed by Syria, the Lebanese Army, the Palestine Liberation Army, and the anti-Arafat Fatah al-Intifada, As-Sa'iqa and Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (PFLP–GC) dissident Palestinian guerrilla factions.\n\nAfter the Multinational Force (MNF) withdrew from Beirut in February–March 1984, Amal took control of West Beirut, establishing a number of outposts and checkpoints around the camps (in Beirut, but also in the south). On 15 April 1985, an alliance gathering Amal, PSP and the Lebanese Communist Party (LCP) militia, the Popular Guard, attacked the Al-Mourabitoun, the main Lebanese Sunni Nasserite militia and the closest ally of the PLO in Lebanon. The Al-Mourabitoun was vanquished after a week of street-fighting and their leader, Ibrahim Kulaylat sent into exile.\n\nOn 19 May 1985, heavy fighting erupted between Amal Movement and Palestinian camp militias for the control of Sabra and Shatila and Burj el-Barajneh camps in Beirut. Amal was supported by the predominantly Shia Sixth Brigade of the Lebanese Army commanded by General Abd al-Halim Kanj and by the 87th Infantry Battalion from the predominantly Christian Maronite Eighth Brigade loyal to General Michel Aoun stationed in East Beirut. Virtually all the houses in the camps were reduced to rubble.\n\nIn terms of sheer numbers, the Shi'ites outnumbered the Palestinians 5:1. Amal was heavily backed by Syria and indirectly supported by Israel, whereas the PLO did not enjoy much outside support. Amal also had the advantage over the PLO in terms of military equipment, especially artillery pieces and armored vehicles.\n\nAlthough the PSP/PLA and LCP/Popular Guard joined forces with Amal in defeating the Al-Mourabitoun, they remained militarily neutral in the fight against the PLO. Despite prodding from Syria, these political parties and their respective militias contributed nothing more than verbally expressing support for Amal and demanding that Arafat step down. The PSP/PLA even allowed the PLO to station their artillery on Druze-controlled areas. This left Amal to do the work of dislodging the Arafat loyalists, with some help from Syria's anti-Arafat Palestinian allies, such as As-Sa'iqa, PFLP-GC and Fatah al-Intifada. The alliance between Amal and most of the pro-Syrian Palestinian groups eventually soured however, and clashes would later break out between them. While some dissident Palestinian commanders such as Ahmed Jibril and Abu Musa still supported Amal against the PLO, many anti-Arafat fighters battled Amal in defense of the camps.\n\nOn 30 May 1985, much of Sabra fell to its attackers. Amid Arab and Soviet political pressure on Syria and an emergency meeting of Arab League foreign ministers scheduled to discuss the issue on 8 June, Amal declared a unilateral ceasefire the next day. Despite this, lower-scale fighting continued. In Shatila, the Palestinians only retained the part of the camp centered around the mosque. Burj al-Barajneh remained under siege as Amal prevented supplies from entering or its population from leaving.\nThe death toll remains uncertain, but is likely to have been high. International pressures led to a ceasefire being signed between Amal and the Palestinian National Salvation Front on 17 June in Damascus. Sporadic clashes erupted again in September 1985.\n\nThe situation remained tense and fighting occurred again between September 1985 and March 1986. Fighting broke out for a third time on 27 March 1986, coinciding with a rocket attack on Kiryat Shimona; it lasted for three days. In Sidon, Amal issued a stern warning to Palestinian factions who tried to reorganize in southern Lebanon. At the time it was estimated that there were more than 2,000 PLO fighters in Lebanon. Exactly one year after the first battle, on 19 May 1986, heavy fighting erupted again. Bolstered by newly received heavy weaponry (including Soviet-made artillery pieces and T-55A tanks loaned by Syria), Amal tightened its siege on the camps. Many ceasefires were announced but most of them did not last more than a few days.\n\nMeanwhile, throughout West Beirut, Amal continued to suppress the remaining predominately Sunni, pro-Palestinian militias such as the small Nasserite Sixth of February Movement in June 1986. The PLO was also aided by Lebanese-Kurdish fighters from the Kurdish Democratic Party – Lebanon (KDP–L), who lived with their families alongside the Palestinians in the refugee camps. Many leftist Lebanese-Kurdish militants joined Palestinian guerrilla movements during the 1975-76 Lebanese civil war, and these militiamen now fought to protect their homes from Amal, as well as supporting their Palestinian comrades. The situation began to cool on 24 June 1986, when the Syrians deployed some of their Commando troops, assisted by a special task-force of 800 Lebanese Army soldiers and Gendarmes from the Internal Security Forces.\n\nThe tension due to this conflict was also present in the South, where the presence of Palestinian guerrillas in the predominantly Shia areas led to frequent clashes. The third and deadliest battle began on 29 September 1986, when fighting occurred at the Rashidieh camp in Tyre between Amal and locally based PLO groups. The conflict immediately spread to Sidon and Beirut. Palestinian forces in Sidon managed to occupy the Christian town of Maghdouché on the eastern hills of Sidon, in order to re-open the road to Rashidiyye. In Sidon, the Israel Air Force (IAF) launched several air strikes against Palestinian positions around the city. As before, the Arab League pressured both parties to stop the fighting. A cease-fire was negotiated between Amal and pro-Syrian Palestinian groups on 15 December 1986, but it was rejected by Arafat's Fatah, who tried to appease the situation by giving some of its positions to the Al-Mourabitoun militia in exchange for supplies to the camps.\n\nDespite the cease-fire, the shelling of the camps continued. In Beirut, the ongoing blockade of the camps led to dramatic food and medicine shortages inside the camps, resulting in horrible conditions for the residents. In February 1987, the fighting spread throughout West Beirut, with Hezbollah and the PSP/PLA supporting the Palestinians. The LCP/Popular Guard and the Syrian Social Nationalist Party (SSNP) aligned with the PSP/PLA in attacking Amal positions. Amal was overpowered as the PSP/PLA quickly seized large portions of West Beirut, and the situation could no longer be tolerated by Damascus. Under the command of Syria's military intelligence chief in Lebanon, Major-General Ghazi Kenaan, the Syrian Army began moving into West Beirut in 21 February 1987 and attacked the Hezbollah's headquarters in the Fathallah barracks, leading to a short period of fighting between Syrian units and Hezbollah guerrillas. In 7 April 1987 Amal finally lifted the siege and handed over its positions around the camps to the Syrian Army. Later, in the summer of 1988, Abu Musa returned to the camps, and another 127 people were killed in the fighting. After this episode, the War of the Camps was considered to be concluded by July 1988.\n\nInternal fighting had happened before in the Muslim/leftist camp (the former Lebanese National Movement or LNM) but never on such massive scale. This inflicted a severe blow in terms of public image for many Muslim militias and destroyed the perception of unity. The main Lebanese Sunni militia, the Al-Mourabitoun, was crushed and their leader Ibrahim Kulaylat sent into exile. The results were mitigated since the PLO retained control of some of the camps.\n\nAt the end of the war, an official Lebanese government report stated that the total number of casualties for these battles was put at 3,781 dead and 6,787 injured in the fighting between Amal and the Palestinians. Furthermore, the number of Palestinians killed in inter-factional clashes between pro-Syrian and pro-Arafat organizations was around 2,000. The real number is probably higher because thousands of Palestinians were not registered in Lebanon and the blockade meant that no officials could access the camps, so that all the casualties could not be counted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931866", "title": "Leo Gorcey", "text": "Leo Gorcey\n\nLeo Bernard Gorcey (June 3, 1917– June 2, 1969) was an American stage and movie actor who became famous for portraying the leader of a group of young hooligans known variously as the Dead End Kids, The East Side Kids and, as adults, The Bowery Boys. Always the most pugnacious gang member, Leo was a prototype of the young punk. He was also the shortest member of the original gang.\n\nGorcey was born in New York City, on June 3, 1917, the son of Josephine (née Condon), an Irish Catholic immigrant, and Bernard Gorcey, a Russian Jewish immigrant. Both were vaudevillian actors of short stature. Bernard Gorcey was ; his wife, . Their son would reach in adulthood.\n\nIn the 1930s, Leo's father lived apart from the family while working in theater and film. When he returned in 1935, he and David, Leo's brother, persuaded Leo to try out for a small part in the play \"Dead End\". Having just lost his job as a plumber's apprentice and seeing his father's relative success, Leo decided to give acting a try. Leo and David were cast in small roles as two members of the East 53rd Place Gang (originally dubbed the \"2nd Avenue Boys\") in the play \"Dead End\" by Sidney Kingsley). Charles Duncan, originally cast as Spit, left the play, and Leo, his understudy, was promoted. Gorcey created the stage persona of a quarrelsome guttersnipe whose greatest joy was in making trouble.\n\nIn 1937, Samuel Goldwyn made the popular play into a movie of the same name and transported the six rowdy boys to Hollywood. Gorcey became one of the busiest actors in Hollywood during the following twenty years, starring as various characters in seven \"Dead End Kids\" movies (1937 to 1939); as Ethelbert \"Muggs\" McInnis/McGinnis/Maloney in twenty-one \"East Side Kids\" movies (1940 to 1945); and as Terence Aloysius \"Slip\" Mahoney in forty-one \"Bowery Boys\" movies (1946 to 1956). Leo's character \"Slip\" was famed for his malapropisms, always delivered in a thick Brooklyn accent, such as: \"a clever seduction\" for \"a clever deduction\"; \"I depreciate it!\" (\"I appreciate it!\"); \"I regurgitate\" (\"I reiterate\"); and \"optical delusion\" (\"optical illusion\").\" In the Bowery Boys series, Leo's father Bernard played Louie Dumbrowski, the diminutive sweetshop owner from whom the boys conned banana splits and financial loans. \n\nIn 1944, Gorcey had a recurring role in the Pabst Blue Ribbon Town radio show, starring Groucho Marx. He also had a small role in a 1948 film, the sophisticated comedy \"So This Is New York,\" starring acerbic radio and television comedian, Henry Morgan, and Arnold Stang.\n\nIn 1955, after his father was killed in an automobile accident, Gorcey began abusing alcohol and lost a great deal of weight. When he trashed a movie set in an intoxicated rage, the studio refused to give him the pay raise he demanded, so he quit the Bowery Boys and was replaced in the last seven movies by Stanley Clements. Leo's brother David remained with the series until it ended in early 1958.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Leo did very little acting. He had a bit part in the 1963 comedy, \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.\" Gorcey then appeared with old sidekick Huntz Hall in a pair of low budget films: \"Second Fiddle To A Steel Guitar\" (1966) and \"The Phynx\" (1970). Gorcey also made an appearance in a TV commercial for the 1969 Pontiac.\n\nGorcey's autobiography, \"An Original Dead End Kid Presents: Dead End Yells, Wedding Bells, Cockle Shells, and Dizzy Spells,\" was published in 1967. \"Me and the Dead End Kid,\" a book about his father by Gorcey's son, Leo Jr., was published in 2003. In 2017, a third book on his life appeared, \"Leo Gorcey's Fractured World,\" by Jim Manago, which included an examination of Gorcey's use of malapropisms in the Bowery Boys films.\n\nGorcey's first cousin twice removed is sports writer Ryan Gorcey.\nAnother of Gorcey's first cousins twice removed is actress Liz Gorcey, best known for her role in the 1984 film, \"Footloose\".\n\nHis image was to appear on the cover of the Beatles album, \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band,\" but he requested a fee and was painted out. Coincidentally, he died on the second anniversary of the album's US release.\n\nIn May of 1939, Gorcey married 15-year-old dancer Kay Marvis (August 29, 1923-April 9, 2000), who appeared in four of his Monogram movies. They divorced in 1944, after which Kay met Groucho Marx and very soon became Groucho's wife. Leo married actress Evalene Bankston in October 1945, but they divorced two years later. In February 1949, Gorcey married actress and \"Hedy Lamarr look-a-like\" Amelita Ward, with whom he had worked in \"Clancy Street Boys\" and \"Smugglers' Cove.\" The union produced two children, including Leo Gorcey Jr., but the marriage ended in divorce in February 1956. Later that year, Gorcey married Brandy Davis. They had a daughter, Brandy Gorcey Ziesemer, but divorced in 1962. Finally, Gorcey married Mary Gannon in 1968, to whom he remained married until his death.\n\nYears of alcoholism eventually caught up with Gorcey. He died of liver failure on June 2, 1969, one day short of his 52nd birthday. He is buried at Molinos Cemetery in Los Molinos, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931876", "title": "David Mourão-Ferreira", "text": "David Mourão-Ferreira\n\nDavid de Jesus Mourão-Ferreira, (February 24, 1927 in Lisbon – June 16, 1996 in Lisbon) was a Portuguese writer and poet from Lisbon.\n\nHe was a son of David Ferreira (b. 1898) and wife Teresa de Jesus Ferro Mourão (b. 1907). He studied Romanic Philology in 1951 in the University of Lisbon and in 1957 became a Professor.\n\nHe married firstly Maria Eulália Barbosa Valentim de Carvalho, sister of Rui Valentim de Carvalho, of now EMI-Valentim de Carvalho label, and maternal aunt of Manuela Moura Guedes' first husband, by whom he had issue, and secondly Maria do Pilar de Jesus Barata, without issue.\n\nIn 2005, the University of Bari and the Instituto Camões dedicated to him the Cátedra David Mourão-Ferreira\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931886", "title": "Russ Shalders", "text": "Russ Shalders\n\nVice Admiral Russell Edward Shalders, (born 28 September 1951) is a retired admiral of the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). He served as Vice Chief of the Australian Defence Force from 2002 to 2005, and as Chief of Navy from 2005 to 2008.\n\nShalders was born in Ararat, Victoria, on 28 September 1951 to Kenneth George Shalders, a former army lieutenant who had served with the 2/12th Battalion in the Second World War, and Muriel Jean Shalders.\n\nShalders entered the Royal Australian Naval College at Jervis Bay as a 16 year old cadet midshipman in 1967. After sea training he undertook Operations and Weapons courses in the United Kingdom. On returning to Australia, he was posted as executive officer of the patrol boat , then joined , before he assumed command of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force patrol boat \"Samarai\".\n\nShalders then served as Divisional Officer at the RAN College in 1976, and then in prior to Principal Warfare Officer training in the UK in 1978. He returned as Operations and Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Officer aboard HMAS \"Vendetta\", then was an officer's posting officer in Canberra.\n\nAfter promotion to lieutenant commander in 1981, Shalders completed the Naval Staff Course for International Officers at the Naval War College, Newport, Rhode Island and then undertook Advanced Warfare Officer training in the UK, specialising in anti-submarine warfare. He joined as ASW Officer and Operations Officer in 1982, but completed this posting as Executive Officer.\n\nIn the rank of commander, Shalders served at the RAN Staff College as a member of the Directing Staff from mid-1984. After two years at the embassy in Washington, D.C. in 1986–87, he assumed command of and was then appointed as Commander, Sea Training.\nOn promotion to captain, Shalders was posted at short notice to command during the Persian Gulf War, and was awarded the Conspicuous Service Cross in recognition of this period in command. In 1991, he became Director of Naval Warfare and subsequently Director General Naval Policy and Warfare. Shalders commanded HMAS \"Perth\" in 1993–94 and attended the Royal College of Defence Studies in London in 1995.\n\nOn promotion to commodore, Shalders was appointed as Director General Joint Exercise Plans and then Director General Operations Policy and Doctrine and Director General Information Strategic Concepts. He returned to the Fleet to become Commodore Flotillas in January 1998, responsible for the operational efficiency of all fleet units.\n\nOn promotion to rear admiral in July 1999, Shalders was seconded to the Australian Customs Service as the inaugural Director General Coastwatch. He was appointed as Head, Defence Personnel Executive in 2001.\n\nShalders was promoted to vice admiral and appointed as Vice Chief of the Defence Force in July 2002. He was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia in the Australia Day Honours list of 2003.\n\nOn 23 May 2005, the Minister for Defence announced that Shalders would succeed Vice Admiral Chris Ritchie as Chief of Navy from July 2005 for a three-year term. He retired from this position, and the navy, on 4 July 2008.\n\nIn his spare time, Shalders enjoys golf, jogging and gardening.\n\nShalders' brother, Commodore Richard Shalders, was Commander Australian Navy Submarine Group (CANSG) until his retirement in July 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931891", "title": "Future Soundtrack for America", "text": "Future Soundtrack for America\n\nFuture Soundtrack for America is a benefit album for Music for America and MoveOn.org released in 2004 by Barsuk Records and McSweeney's and compiled by Spike Jonze and They Might Be Giants' founding member John Flansburgh. Each CD bore the legend, \"100% of our profits from this CD will go to non-profit progressive organizations working to involve more Americans in our political process, to advocate for ordinary people and traditional American values, and to help keep the United States a country all of us can be proud of. Thank you for your support.\" Most songs were either rare or exclusive to this compilation album at the time it was released. The CD was also included in \"The Future Dictionary of America\", published simultaneously by McSweeney's.\n\nAt a They Might Be Giants concert at The Catalyst in Santa Cruz, California, the night before its release, Flansburgh had this to say about the album:\n\"We made some very, very cold, cold calls to our...fake, fake rock friends that we don't even know, to talk them into being on this thing, ladies and gentlemen.\" He then added, \"One more thing: If you're not registered to vote, what's up with that?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1931893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931893", "title": "Radiodetermination", "text": "Radiodetermination\n\nAs defined by FS-1037C, radiodetermination is \"\"the determination of the position, velocity or other characteristics of an object, or the obtaining of information relating to these parameters, by means of the propagation properties of radio waves\".\"\n\nThere are two main fields to radiodetermination:\n\nRadiodetermination service is – according to \"Article 1.40\" of the International Telecommunication Union's (ITU) Radio Regulations (RR) – defined as «\"A radiocommunication service for the purpose of radiodetermination\".»\n\nThis \"radiocommunication service\" is classified in accordance with \"ITU Radio Regulations\" (article 1) as follows: \nRadiodetermination service (article 1.40) \n\n"}
{"id": "1931895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931895", "title": "Samson (band)", "text": "Samson (band)\n\nSamson were a British rock band formed in 1977 by guitarist and vocalist Paul Samson. They are best known for their first three albums with future Iron Maiden singer Bruce Dickinson, then known as \"Bruce Bruce\", and drummer Thunderstick (real name Barry Graham Purkis), who wore a leather mask and performed on stage in a metal cage. Drummer Clive Burr was also a member of the band, both before and after his tenure with Iron Maiden. Drummer Mel Gaynor had a successful music career being a member of Simple Minds for over 20 years. Dickinson's replacement on vocals, Nicky Moore, performed with Samson throughout the mid-1980s and again from the late 1990s onwards; he has also been a member of the bands Mammoth and Nicky Moore and the Blues Corporation. Samson were a part of the New Wave Of British Heavy Metal.\n\nIn 1976, Paul Samson replaced Bernie Tormé in London-based band Scrapyard, joining bassist John McCoy and drummer Roger Hunt. The band name was changed to McCoy, and they built up a busy gigging schedule, whilst also independently playing various sessions. Eventually, McCoy left to join Atomic Rooster. His replacement was the band's sound engineer and a close friend of Paul Samson's, Chris Aylmer. Aylmer suggested a name change to Samson, and recommended a young drummer, Clive Burr, whom he had previously played with in the band Maya. Burr joined, and Samson was born, although for a time Paul Samson used bassist Bill Pickard and drummer Paul Gunn on odd gigs, when Aylmer and Burr were honouring previous commitments. Various other people were tried out to expand the line up: Paul Samson got in touch with an old bandmate, bass player Stewart Cochrane, and asked him to try out with the group as a four-piece, with the current bass player Chris Aylmer on second guitar alongside Paul. Only one gig was played in this incarnation, at The Nag's Head pub in Rochester, Kent on 11 March 1978, where it was decided that Samson and Aylmer's playing styles were not compatible, so they went back to being a three-piece. Cochrane later joined the avant-garde jazz-rock band Spanish Fly; and later continued his career as a band-leader for Holland America Line, Windstar Cruises. Cochrane performed and recorded with members of bands The Animals, Nashville Teens and Steve Hackett Band. Talking to Cochrane in 2017 he allegedly said “Not getting the Samson gig was the best thing to happen to him as the band’s lifestyle choices and the music wasn’t his cup-of-tea anyway”. It appears that Cochrane and Samson had a disagreement about Samson wanting Cochrane to dress up in some weird black leather military style uniform on stage, but they fell out mainly over Cochrane pointing out that the Samson logo on the Telephone single sleeve looked too much like the Nazi SS runes. Their friendship since their teen band days finished there and then.\n\nIn October 1978, lead vocalist Mark Newman joined, but after about six shows, Paul Samson resumed lead vocals and they reverted to a three-piece line-up.\n\nAt the end of 1978, Burr left. They auditioned over 60 drummers, and eventually decided on Barry Purkis. The band were offered a recording contract, but Aylmer would not commit, so Paul Samson and Purkis decided that, as John McCoy was producing and had co-written much of the material, they would ask him to play bass on the album. The album was recorded for release on Lazer records, and given the title \"Survivors\". In late 1979, Bruce Dickinson joined as lead vocalist under the name 'Bruce Bruce'.\n\nThe band's second album, \"Head On\", was released in July 1980 and peaked at No. 34 in the UK Albums Chart The supporting tour was full of controversy and legal issues, due to problems with their management. They kept writing and rehearsing for a new record. Ten songs had already been composed, by October 1980, and were ready to be recorded. At the same time, the band re-issued their debut album, \"Survivors\", now with Dickinson handling vocal duties. The tour continued until the end of the year, when Samson entered the studio to record their third album, \"Shock Tactics\". This was the last album Dickinson recorded with the band. Samson faced innumerable problems with their management. They were always being booked on ill-matched support tours. After leaving their management in 1981 they discovered that their record company was going bankrupt. Dickinson said they \"made every mistake in the business\". His last performance with Samson was at the Reading Festival in 1981. This was recorded by the BBC and released in 1990, as the live album \"Live at Reading 1981\".\n\nThe group posted three entries in the UK Singles Chart. These were \"Riding With The Angels (1981, No. 54), \"Losing My Grip\" (1982, No. 63) and \"Red Skies (1983, No. 65).\n\nFollowing Dickinson's departure, former Hackensack and Tiger vocalist Nicky Moore was recruited to front the band who had also signed a new recording contract with Polydor. Samson's first release with Moore was the \"Losing My Grip\" EP in 1982. The title track as well as \"Pyramid to the Stars\" had originally been cut with Dickinson. Those versions would remain unreleased until they surfaced on the \"Shock Tactics\" CD re-release in 2001. Samson issued two albums with Moore, 1982's \"Before the Storm\" and 1984 \"Don't Get Even, Get Mad\" before the group disbanded with Paul Samson carrying on solo. Samson reformed in 1987 and performed until 1991, through various line-up changes. The album \"Refugee\" was launched in 1990.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Paul Samson asked New York singer/songwriter Rik Anthony to write lyrics and vocal melodies for Samson's \"reunion\" project with Thunderstick and Chris Aylmer. As a collaboration, Anthony wrote and recorded the lyrics and vocal melodies for eight songs while in New York, and in London re-recorded five demos at Picnic Studios. With limited time and budget, the band could only record five demo songs and the project was never completed. The Picnic demos were never picked up by Samson's record company, and sat idle for almost nine years. Anthony, Paul Samson, Gerry Sherwin and Tony Tuohy played some shows in Germany and the Netherlands under the name Paul Samson's Rogues, and as Samson whilst opening for Girlschool. After the dates in Europe, Anthony returned to New York. Samson had a new line-up in 1993 and recorded the album \"Samson\".\n\nIn 1999, Paul Samson released a CD containing five of the compositions from the Picnic Demos, entitled \"Past Present & Future\". The Samson-Aylmer-Thunderstick line-up reformed for a live show in Tokyo, and in 2000, with Nicky Moore back on board, a series of live dates, including a \"25th Anniversary of the NWOBHM\" concert at the London Astoria on 26 May 2000, which also featured Angel Witch on the bill. Samson's performance was recorded and released as a live album. The same line-up later appeared at the Wacken Open Air rock festival on 4 August 2000.\n\nThe group effectively disbanded with Paul Samson's death from cancer on 9 August 2002. Moore paid tribute to his late bandmate at the Sweden Rock Festival on 12 June 2004, with a set entitled \"Nicky Moore plays Samson\".\n\nBass player Chris Aylmer (born Christopher Robin Aylmer, 7 February 1948) died on 9 January 2007 following a battle with throat cancer.\n\nThe band appeared in a short-movie \"Biceps of Steel\" in 1980, directed by Julien Temple, which was intended as the B-film to a major feature produced and promoted by the record company. The film featured two music-video type sequences which form the 15 minute film. Though it has been largely forgotten, clips from it were seen in the movie \"The Incubus\" (1981). However, in 2006 \"Biceps of Steel\" re-surfaced on Bruce Dickinson's \"Anthology\" DVD.\n\nDrummer Clive Burr died on 12 March 2013 after many years suffering from multiple sclerosis.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931911", "title": "The Argus (Melbourne)", "text": "The Argus (Melbourne)\n\nThe Argus was an Australian daily morning newspaper in Melbourne from 1846 to 1957. It was considered to be the general Australian newspaper of record for this period. Widely known as a conservative newspaper for most of its history, it adopted a left-leaning approach from 1949. \"The Argus\"s main competitor was David Syme's more liberal-minded newspaper, \"The Age\".\n\nThe newspaper was originally owned by William Kerr, who was also Melbourne's town clerk from 1851-1856 and had been a journalist at the \"Sydney Gazette\" before moving to Melbourne in 1839 to work on John Pascoe Fawkner's newspaper, the \"Port Phillip Patriot\". \n\nThe first edition was published on 2 June 1846. The paper soon became known for its scurrilous abuse and sarcasm and by 1853, after he had lost a series of libel lawsuits, Kerr was forced to sell the paper's ownership to avoid financial ruin. The paper was then published by Edward Wilson.\n\nIn 1883, newspaper editor and owner Richard Twopeny (1857-1919) regarded it as \"the best daily paper published out of England\". The paper become a stablemate to the weekly \"The Australasian\", which became the \"Australasian Post\" in 1946.\n\nDuring the Depression in 1933, it launched the \"Melbourne Evening Star\" in competition with \"The Herald\" newspaper of the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd, but it was forced to close the venture in 1936 due to poor circulation figures.\n\nThe company's newspaper operations experienced severe financial losses in 1939, and through the 1940s and the 1950s, which was due to economic turmoil, increased costs of newsprint, and the cut-throat competition for newspaper circulation in Melbourne.\n\nIn June 1949, the paper was acquired by the London-based \"Daily Mirror\" newspaper group and, on 28 July 1952, \"The Argus\" became the first newspaper in the world to publish colour photographs in a daily paper. The paper also had interests in radio and, from 1956, the new medium of television, being part of the consortium General Telecasters Victoria (GTV) and its television station GTV-9 (now part of the Nine Network).\n\nOn 19 January 1957, the paper printed its final edition after 110 years, seven months and 17 days, before being discontinued and sold to the Herald and Weekly Times group (HWT), which undertook to re-employ \"Argus\" staff and continue publication of selected features, and made an allocation of shares to the UK owners. The company's other print and broadcasting operations were unaffected.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931918", "title": "Pope John XXIII Regional High School", "text": "Pope John XXIII Regional High School\n\nPope John XXIII Regional High School is a Roman Catholic high school in Sparta Township, in Sussex County, New Jersey, United States. The school was founded in 1956, originally as \"Our Lady Of The Lake School\" and is part of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Paterson. The school name was changed to honor Pope John XXIII after his death in 1963.\n\nAs of the 2013-14 school year, the school had an enrollment of 951 students and 74.9 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 12.7:1. The school's enrollment was 86.0% White, 3.3% Black, 5.7% Hispanic, 4.2% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian / Pacific Islander and 0.7% two or more races.\n\nIn 2016, grades 5-7 at the Rev. George A. Brown Elementary School were moved into the newly built Pope John XXII Middle School, which shares its campus with the high school. To do this the schools of Immaculate Conception Regional School (in Franklin, Saint Joseph's Regional School (in Newton) and Saint Michael's Regional School (in Netcong) were all closed and merged into Pope John Middle School.\n\nPope John XXIII Regional High School has a Catholic philosophy in accordance with Church teaching. The school also has a college prep course of study in academic subjects. Students are required to not only take state required courses but an additional year of Math and Science. Theology coursework is required for every marking period a student is enrolled at the school. Two years of a foreign language such as Spanish, French, Italian, and Latin are also required as well as computer courses. 17 Advanced Placement (AP) courses are offered. An eighth grade honors program for math, history, english and science is also offered The math and science taught to the eighth grade honors students is also taught to the freshman. In addition to the eighth grade honors program for area Catholic schools, Pope John launched their own eighth grade class in the 2009–2010 academic year, but only accepted eighth grade students who were previously from public schools.\n\nLike most Catholic schools, students are required to wear uniforms. The uniform policy is often strictly enforced to ensure students live up the proper standard expected of them by the administration and faculty. Uniforms, for example, include uniform dress shoes, ties (for boys), and dress pants and skirts, respectively, which are coordinated by class and change as a student moves to the next grade. The school also does not allow for any facial hair on boys or any \"hair that reaches past the ear or below the collar;\" infractions of proper uniform often result in punishment by the administration or faculty.\n\nThe school's theological position is that of a mainstream Roman Catholic belief taking neither a progressive or traditional position, with 80% of the student body being Catholic, though students from all denominations and religions are accepted.\n\nPope John has a full complement of boys and girls athletic programs. The Pope John Lions compete in the Northwest Jersey Athletic Conference, following a reorganization of sports leagues in Northern New Jersey by the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association (NJSIAA). Until the NJSIAA's 2009 realignment, the school had participated in the Sussex County Interscholastic League, which was made up of public and private high schools located in Sussex County and northern Morris County. The school is categorized by the NJSIAA as Non-Public North, Group A.\n\nThrough the years, its football team has had a great amount of success, accumulating 20 state championships under coach Victor Paternostro. The football team won the NJSIAA North B state sectional title in 1975, 1979, 1981–83, 1986–91 and 1993, and won the Non-Public II titles in 1995-98 and 2001-02. In 2002, the football team won the Non-Public II state sectional championship with a 41-12 win against Queen of Peace High School in the tournament final. In 2009, Coach Paternostro became New Jersey's winningest high school football coach with the Lions' win over West Morris Mendham High School. Paternostro resigned from his coaching position after the 2010 season, leaving with an overall record of 373-68-5 in 43 seasons, including 20 state championships, 19 Sussex County Interscholastic League titles and two NJAC titles, and was replaced by Brain Carlson formerly from Kean University.\n\nIn 2005-06, the hockey team advanced to the state semi-finals, where they lost 3-2 to the Delbarton School. The 2003-04 team was the champions of the Northern Red division, going undefeated in conference play and winning the conference tournament. The 2002-03 team had lost the previous year in the conference championship game after winning the conference regular season title. During the 2018-19 season the team captured the Gordon National Division Title and finished ranked number 4 in the state in NJ.com boys ice hockey rankings \n\nIn March 2008, the Pope John ski team won its first state championship.\n\nThe following organizations and clubs are present at Pope John XXIII Regional High School: \n\nThe Pope John XXIII Regional High School FIRST Robotics Team supports three levels of FIRST robotics: FLL for area elementary schools, FTC and FRC for high school students. In 2011 a Zero Robotics team was also started. Pope John does not restrict the program to their own students, approximately ten to fifteen percent of the FTC and FRC team members in any given year come from other area high schools, and FLL students come from both public and private area elementary schools. In the 2010–2011 academic year sixty-two students were involved in some level of the program.\n\nIn the 2009–2010 season the school's two FTC teams both qualified for the World Championship held in Atlanta, Georgia. FTC Team 247 won the New York City Championship as captain team, and FTC Team 248 won the New Jersey Championship as captain team. Additionally, the teams jointly came in second place at the Pennsylvania Championship.\n\nIn the 2010–2011 season the school expanded FTC to three teams. One of the three teams qualified for the World Championship held in St. Louis, Missouri (team 4391). This marked the third consecutive season in which a Pope John FTC team qualified for the World Championship.\n\nIn the 2011–2012 season the school added a Zero Robotics team and was one of only nine schools nationally to qualify as a captain team in the finals. The finals were held on board the International Space Station on small SPHERES robots which maneuver in zero gravity. Pope John and other finalist teams observed from MIT. Astronauts on board the ISS served as referees for the game. Although the tournament only officially named the top three winning teams, Pope John's scores during elimination rounds placed them at fourth position nationally.\n\nThe team also publishes a book, \"FTC Robotics: Tips, Tricks, Strategies, and Secrets\", which guides new and veteran teams through the process of building a winning FTC program. The book is available through major online retailers. Over one thousand copies sold during the 2010–2011 season. The team has also donated over hundreds of copies of the book to rookie FTC teams across the United States as an outreach effort.\n\nA major expansion of the Robotics program took place in 2010–2011. This expansion included adding academic awards recognition to robotics team participants, creating the first Varsity Letter program for Robotics in Sussex County, New Jersey on March 31, 2011, and adding a new academic course, Honors Robotics I.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931920", "title": "Samuel Dickstein (congressman)", "text": "Samuel Dickstein (congressman)\n\nSamuel Dickstein (February 5, 1885 – April 22, 1954) was a Democratic Congressional Representative from New York (22-year tenure) and a New York State Supreme Court Justice. He played a key role in establishing the committee that would become the House Committee on Un-American Activities, which he used to attack fascists, including Nazi sympathizers, and suspected communists. In 1999, authors Allen Weinstein and Alexander Vassiliev learned that Soviet files indicate that Dickstein was a paid agent of the NKVD.\n\nDickstein was born on February 5, 1885, into a Jewish family of five children near Vilnius, Lithuania. His parents were Rabbi Israel Dickstein (died 1918) and Slata B. Gordon (died 1931). In 1887, his family emigrated to the United States. They settled on the Lower East Side of New York City. Dickstein attended public and private schools, the City College of New York, and in 1906 graduated from New York Law School.\n\nIn 1908, Dickstein passed the bar and began private practice in New York with the firm of Hyman and Gross.\n\nIn 1911, he entered the Tammany Hall Democratic organization in Manhattan under mentor John F. Ahearn. From 1911 to 1914, he served as Deputy State Attorney General. In 1917, he became a New York City Alderman. In 1919, he was elected as an Assemblyman of the New York State Legislature.\n\nIn 1922, Dickstein was elected as a Democrat to the Sixty-eighth Congress, defeating Socialist incumbent Meyer London. He was reelected eleven times. He resigned from Congress on December 30, 1945.\n\nIn 1930, Dickstein co-sponsored a bill in condemning religious persecution in the Soviet Union.\n\nBy 1931, Dickstein was serving as Chairman on the Committee on Immigration and Naturalization (Seventy-second through Seventy-ninth Congresses). During his tenure, he became aware of the substantial number of foreigners legally and illegally entering and residing in the US, and the growing Anti-Semitism along with vast amounts of anti-Semitic literature being distributed in the country. This led him to investigate independently the activities of Nazi and other fascist groups in the U.S. \n\nIn 1932, Dickstein joined forces with Martin Dies Jr. to outlaw membership in the Communist Party of the USA. \n\nIn 1933, he called for congressional investigation into Anarchism, following the failed assassination attempt of U.S. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt by Giuseppe Zangara.\n\nIn 1939, Dickstein held hearings on a \"Child Refugee Bill\" AKA the \"Wagner-Rogers Bill\" to allow up to 10,000 children under age 14 into the United States during 1939–1940 in addition to normal German quotas. U.S. Secretary of State Cordell Hull opposed the measure, as did the American Legion, United Daughters of the Confederacy, the Society of Mayflower Descendants, and the Daughters of the American Revolution. The hearings made clear that the bill's purpose was to save German Jews from \"annihilation... a complete pogrom.\"\n\nOn January 3, 1934, Dickstein introduced the \"Dickstein Resolution\" (H.R. #198), which passed in March 1934, to establish a \"Special Committee on Un-American Activities Authorized to Investigate Nazi Propaganda and Certain Other Propaganda Activities\" or \"McCormack-Dickstein Committee\" (later, the \"Dies Committee\" and later \"House Un-American Activities Committee\"). \n\nIts mandate was to get \"information on how foreign subversive propaganda entered the U.S. and the organizations that were spreading it.\" \n\nFrom 1934 to 1937, this Special Committee, with John William McCormack (D-MA) as chairman and Dickstein (D-NY) as vice-chairman, held public and private hearings and collected testimony filling 4,300 pages, and it was replaced with a similar committee that focused on pursuing communists. Its records are held by the National Archives and Records Administration as records related to HUAC.\n\nOne of the first investigations by the Special Committee was the Business Plot (AKA The White House Coup), an alleged 1933 political conspiracy, which, according to retired Marine Corps Major General Smedley Butler, wealthy businessmen were plotting to create a fascist veterans' organization with Butler as its leader and stage a \"coup d'état\" to overthrow President Franklin D. Roosevelt. In 1934, Butler testified before the Special Committee about his claims. No one was prosecuted. Nonetheless, the Special Committee \"delet[ed] extensive excerpts relating to Wall Street financiers including Guaranty Trust director Grayson Murphy, J. P. Morgan, the Du Pont interests, Remington Arms, and others allegedly involved in the plot attempt. (Even today, in 1975, a full transcript of the hearings cannot be traced.\" ) At the time of the incident, news media at first reported on the plot earnestly, then quickly changed course and dismissed the plot. For instance, \"The New York Times\" newsroom gave the plot front-page coverage until an editorial characterized it as a \"gigantic hoax\". While historians have questioned how close the coup actually got to execution, most agree that some sort of \"wild scheme\" was contemplated and discussed.\n\nThroughout the rest of 1934, the Special Committee conducted hearings, bringing before it most of the major figures in the U.S. fascist movement. Dickstein, who proclaimed as his aim the eradication of all traces of Nazism in the U.S., personally questioned each witness. His flair for dramatics and sensationalism, along with his sometimes exaggerated claims, continually captured headlines across the nation and won him much public recognition.\n\nBy 1935, the Special Committee had helped publicize that the Friends of New Germany (AKA the \"German American Bund\") of Fritz Julius Kuhn and the \"Silver Shirts\" of William Dudley Pelley were supporting Nazi Germany but within existing laws.\n\nIn 1937, Dickstein sought for continued House investigation but lost control to Martin Dies Jr..\n\nIt has been reported that while Dickstein served on this committee and the subsequent Special investigation Committee, he was paid $1,250 a month by the Soviet NKVD, which hoped to get secret congressional information on anti-communists and pro-fascists. It is unclear whether he actually passed on any information.\n\nLater the same committee was renamed the House Committee on Un-American Activities when it shifted attention to Communist organizations and was made a standing committee in 1945. Following the 1938 German takeover of Austria, Dickstein attempted to introduce legislation that would allow unused refugee quotas to be allocated to those fleeing Hitler.\n\nDemocratic leaders in the House distrusted Dickstein. They were unaware of his spying or his bribery, but they did know he brutally browbeat and threatened witnesses, grossly exaggerating evidence, and they removed him from membership on the committee.\n\nIn September 1945, not long before stepping down from office, Dickstein called the Dies Committee's investigations into Hollywood \"a lot of ballyhoo\" about an industry that is almost \"100 per cent American\" and also asserted that \"the alien problem is dying away.\"\n\nPeter Duffy wrote: An Austrian working for the Soviets approached him and asked for help in securing American citizenship. Dickstein told the man that the quota for Austrian immigrants was filled but for $3,000 he would see what he could do. Dickstein said he had \"settled dozens\" in a similarly illegal fashion, according to the NKVD memo on the meeting. Moscow concluded that Dickstein was \"heading a criminal gang that was involved in shady businesses, selling passports, illegal smuggling of people, [and] getting citizenship.\" In his 2000 book \"The Haunted Wood\", writer Allen Weinstein wrote that documents discovered in the 1990s in Moscow archives showed Dickstein was paid $1,250 a month from 1937 to early 1940 by the NKVD (), the Soviet spy agency, which hoped to get secret Congressional information on anti-Communist and pro-fascist forces. According to Weinstein, whether Dickstein provided any intelligence is not certain; when he left the Committee the Soviets dropped him from the payroll.\n\nDuffy stated: Dickstein denounced the Dies Committee at NKVD request (\"a Red-baiting excursion\") and gave speeches in Congress on Moscow-dictated themes. He handed over \"materials on the war budget for 1940, records of conferences of the budget subcommission, reports of the war minister, chief of staff, etc.\" according to an NKVD report. The \"Boston Globe\" stated: \"Dickstein ran a lucrative trade in illegal visas for Soviet operatives before brashly offering to spy for the NKVD, the KGB's precursor, in return for cash.\" Sam Roberts, in \"The Brother: The Untold Story of the Rosenberg Case\", wrote that \"Not even Julius Rosenberg knew that Samuel Dickstein had been on the KGB's payroll.\" Kurt Stone wrote that Dickstein \"was, for many years, a 'devoted and reliable' Soviet agent whom his handlers nicknamed \"Crook\".\" Joe Persico wrote, \"The files document Soviet spying by Representative Samuel Dickstein of New York, so greedy that his handlers gave him the code name \"Crook\".\"\n\nFollowing his time in Congress, Dickstein served as a Justice of the New York State Supreme Court until his death.\n\nDickstein died age 69 on April 22, 1954, in New York City. He was buried at the Union Field Cemetery, Queens County, Brooklyn, New York.\n\nA one-block section of Pitt Street, between Grand Street and East Broadway in the Lower East Side of Manhattan, is named Samuel Dickstein Plaza. There has been a push to rename the street, but it has been unsuccessful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931925", "title": "Leander High School", "text": "Leander High School\n\nLeander High School is a secondary school in Leander, Texas, United States, and is part of the Leander Independent School District. It was established in 1983 and was the only high school in district, until the establishment of Cedar Park High School in 1998.\n\nThe school has a freshman enrollment of 600 students and is accredited by the Texas Education Agency. Historically the school served a mainly rural population, but starting in the early 1990s the area experienced growth due to expansion of high tech industries in the nearby Austin area. In 1999, the school became an International Baccalaureate school.\n\nAs of 2017, the school principal is Chris Simpson.\n\nThe school's mascots are Leo the Lion and Leah the Lioness. The school colors are blue, white, and red.\n\nSince the early 1930s, Leander has had a presence in Texas high school football. Since 1942, it has had 17 playoff appearances.\n\nThe 1942 season was the first time that Leander made an appearance in the playoffs after being named district champions. They were eliminated after losing to Marble Falls 0-26.\n\nIn 1955, Leander went 8-1-1 in the regular season, falling only to Thrall High School. They entered bi-district, but fell to Troy High School 0-12.\n\nIn 1959, Leander went 4-5-1, before advancing to the bi-district game against Johnson City High; they fell 6-8.\n\nThe Lions made their fourth playoff appearance in 1967. They went 8-2, advancing to the playoffs after losing only to Salado and Thorndale. In the bi-district game, they again fell to Salado with a score of 28-14.\n\nWith their best season since the team's founding, the 1969 Lions went 9-1 in the regular season. They advanced to bi-district and played Mart High School, but fell 0-37.\n\nAfter 27 years without making it to the playoffs, Leander returned to a bi-district game in 1996 with a record of 7-2-1. They were knocked out of the playoffs after a 0-14 loss to Killeen Ellison.\n\nIn 2001, the Lions made it to the bi-district game against Killeen, but lost 3-21.\n\nThe 2002 season was the first time Leander won a playoff game after beating Copperas Cove 45-27 in the bi-district game. They advanced to area playoffs, but lost to Spring High School 26-28.\n\nIn 2003, Leander hired head coach Steve Gideon. Though he would coach the football team for the next eight years, the 2003 season was his best. During the regular season, Leander went 9-1, and were able to advance to playoffs. Leander first beat Belton 14-13 in the bi-district game, before advancing to the area game against Cypress Springs, who they topped 31-7. Leander then faced Dallas Carter and beat them 11-9. For their final playoff game of the season, Leander faced Allen High School in the state 5A quarterfinals. Allen held a constant lead throughout the game, and Leander was defeated 49-35.\n\nAfter failing to make the playoffs in 2004, the 2005 team went 9-1 and were named district champions. They played Bastrop in the bi-district game, and advanced to area after beating the Bears 39-13. They appeared in the area game against the undefeated Copperas Cove team, and were defeated 42-28.\n\nIn 2006, Leander was named district champion and made it to the bi-district game against Ellison. They beat the Eagles 49-22, then moved to the area game against Klein Forest who they beat 35-24. Leander played Garland in the regional game, but were defeated 24-27.\n\nCurrently, Leander has four basketball teams: Varsity, Junior Varsity, 9th A, and 9th B. \n\nIn 2013, Coach Clint Bradley won the award Coach of the Year.\n\nLeander has three baseball teams: Varsity, JV Blue and JV Red. The teams are coached by head baseball coach Matt Grissom. \n\n\nThe Leander High School Band's recent accolades include:\n\n\nThe Leander High School robotics team has won many different awards over the years. Students of any background may join, even if they have no knowledge of robotics.\n\n\"The Roar\" is Leander's online newspaper. It was founded in 2009.\n\nLeander's yearbook is \"The Lair\". It has been producing editions since 1946.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931927", "title": "Roberto Burle Marx", "text": "Roberto Burle Marx\n\nRoberto Burle Marx (August 4, 1909 – June 4, 1994) was a Brazilian landscape architect (as well as a painter, print maker, ecologist, naturalist, artist and musician) whose designs of parks and gardens made him world-famous. He is accredited with having introduced modernist landscape architecture to Brazil. He was known as a modern nature artist and a public urban space designer. His work had a great influence on tropical garden design in the 20th century. Water gardens were a popular theme in his work. He was deftly able to transfer traditional artistic expressions such as graphic design, tapestry and folk art into his landscape designs. He also designed fabrics, jewellery and stage sets.\n\nHe was one of the first people to call for the conservation of Brazil's rainforests. More than 50 plants bear his name. He amassed a substantial collection of plants at his home, including more than 500 philodendrons.\n\nRoberto Burle Marx was born in São Paulo. He was the fourth son of Rebecca Cecília Burle, a member of the traditional Pernambuco family of French ancestry, Burle Dubeux, and Wilhelm Marx, a German Jew born in Stuttgart and raised in Trier. The family moved to Rio de Janeiro in 1913.\n\nBurle Marx's first landscaping inspirations came while studying painting in Germany, where he often visited the Botanical Garden in Berlin and first learned about Brazil's native flora. Upon returning to Brazil in 1930, he began collecting plants in and around his home. He went to school at the National School of Fine Arts in Rio in 1930 where he focused on visual arts under Leo Putz and Candido Portinari. While in school he associated with several of Brazil's future leaders in architecture and botanists who continued to be of significant influence in his personal and professional life. One of these was his professor, Brazilian Modernism's Lucio Costa, the architect and planner who lived down the street from Burle.\n\nIn 1932, Burle Marx designed his first landscape for a private residence by the architects Lucio Costa and Gregori Warchavchik. This project, the Schwartz house was the beginning of a collaboration with Costa which was enriched later by Oscar Niemeyer who designed the Brazilian Pavilion at the New York World's Fair in 1939. Niemeyer also designed the Pampulha complex in 1942 for which Marx designed gardens. His first garden design was completed in 1933. In 1937, Burle Marx gained international recognition and admiration for this abstract design of a roof garden for the Ministry of Education building. The design highlighted elements of tension and drama.\n\nIn 1949 he acquired the Sítio de Santo Antonio da Bica, a 365,000m² estate in the Barra de Guaratiba neighborhood on the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro. Burle Marx began taking expeditions into the Brazilian rain forest with botanists, landscape architects, architects and other researchers to gather plant specimens. He learned to practice studying plants in situ from the botanist Henrique Lahmeyer de Mello Barreto and established his garden, nursery and tropical plant collection at Guaratiba. This property was donated to the Brazilian government in 1985 and became a national monument. Now called Sítio Roberto Burle Marx, under the direction of IPHAN-Instituto do Patrimônio Histórico e Artístico Nacional / Ministério da Cultura, it houses over 3,500 species of plants. The house was rebuilt in a valley on the site of a garden house belonging to the original plantation estate.\n\nRoberto Burle Marx founded a landscape studio in 1955 and in the same year he founded a landscape company, called Burle Marx & Cia. Ltda. He opened an office in Caracas, Venezuela in 1956 and started working with architects Jose Tabacow and Haruyoshi Ono in 1968. Marx worked on commissions thorough out Brazil, Argentina, in Chile and many other South American countries, France, South Africa, Washington D.C. and Los Angeles. Additionally his artwork can be found displayed throughout the city of Rio de Janeiro \"it is an open-air museum of works displaying his unmistakable style, one wholly his own\" (Montero 2001 p. 29). Roberto Burle Marx's 62-year career ended when he died June 4, 1994 two months before his 85th birthday.\n\nHe spent time in the Brazilian forests where he was able to study and explore. Burle Marx was one of the first Brazilians to speak out against deforestation. This enabled him to add significantly to the botanical sciences, by discovering new rocks and plants for example. At least 50 plants bear his name. Marx was also involved in efforts to protect and conserve the rain forest from the destructive commercial activities of deforestation for bananas and other crops and clear cutting of timber.\n\nBurle Marx's artistic style was avant-garde and modern. Much of his work has a sense of timelessness and perfection. He explored an anti-mimitec and skeptical aesthetic developed from modernism with a distinctly Brazilian style. His designs were also influenced by cubism and abstractionism. Another strong influence was Brazilian folk art.\n\nHis aesthetics were often nature based, for example, never mixing flower colours, utilisation of big groups of the same specimen, using native plants and making a rocky field into a relaxing garden. He was very interested in each plant's character and what effect that has on the whole garden. He sought a depth in his designs by understanding how animals interacted with plants and how they bloomed, amongst other plant characteristics. Burle Marx had a great skill in utilising the sculptural form of plants. Burle Marx was mindful of the dynamic of walking through a garden. The sensation of mobility is an important element of experiencing his landscapes. He also made clever use of enormous scale, lighting and reflection particularly in his use of water. Burle Marx was able to extend the architecture of a building into the garden. He preferred to work on public spaces because, in his words, they are able to provide dignity for the masses.\n\nMarx's work \"can be summarized in four general design concepts—the use of native tropical vegetation as a structural element of design, the rupture of symmetrical patterns in the conception of open spaces, the colorful treatment of pavements, and the use of free forms in water features\" (Vaccarino 2000, p. 17). This approach is exemplified by the Copacabana Beach promenade, where native sea breeze resistant trees and palms appear in groupings along Avenida Atlantica. These groupings punctuate Portuguese stone mosaics which form a giant abstract painting where no section along the promenade is the same. This \"painting\" is viewed from the balconies of hotels, and offers an ever-changing view for those driving along the beach. The mosaics continue the entire two and a half-mile distance of the beach. The water feature, in this case, is of course the ocean and beach, which is bordered by a 30-foot wide continuous scallop patterned mosaic walk (Eliovson 1991; Montero 2001). Copacabana Beach is \"the most famous in Brazil\" (Eliovson 1991 p. 103).\n\nRoberto Burle Marx has received the following prizes, diplomas of merit and honorary memberships: The landscape architecture prize at the 2nd International Exhibition of Architecture (1953), title of Knight of the Order of the Crown from Belgium (1959), Diploma d’Honneur in Paris (1959), the Santos Dumont Medal of the Brazilian Government (1963), the Fine Arts Medal of The American Institute of Architects in Washington (1965), doctor of the Royal College of Art, London (1982) and an honorary doctorate from the Queen of the Netherlands. The Missouri Botanical Garden awarded him the Greensfelder Award and the Kentucky Botanic Garden proclaimed October 14, 1985 in his honor (Eliovson 1991).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931932", "title": "Commonwealth's attorney", "text": "Commonwealth's attorney\n\nCommonwealth's attorney is the title given to the elected prosecutor of felony crimes in Kentucky and Virginia. Other states in the U.S. refer to similar prosecutors as district attorney or state's attorney.\n\nThe prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case against an individual suspected of breaking the law, initiating and directing further criminal investigations, guiding and recommending the sentencing of offenders, and are the only attorneys allowed to participate in grand jury proceedings.\n\nA commonwealth's attorney is the highest law enforcement official in his or her jurisdiction and in many jurisdictions supervises a staff which includes a chief deputy commonwealth's attorney, deputy commonwealth's attorneys and assistant commonwealth's attorneys. The prosecutors decide what criminal charges to bring, and when and where a person will answer to those charges. In carrying out their duties, prosecutors have the authority to investigate persons, grant immunity to witnesses and accused criminals, and plea bargain with defendants.\n\nA commonwealth's attorney is a constitutional officer, which means that the job is established in the state's constitution which defines the position, the broad powers of the elected officeholder and in Virginia, the requirement that every county and every city be served by a commonwealth's attorney. Certain cities in Kentucky and cities in Virginia are independent jurisdictions (hence the term \"independent city,\" a designation conceptually similar to that of cities having imperial immediacy under the Holy Roman Empire) and not part of any county.\n\nThe role of commonwealth's attorneys, district attorneys, and state's attorneys should not be confused with the role of a county attorney or city attorney whose authority is usually limited by individual state constitutions to non-felony infractions or misdemeanor cases.\n\nCommonwealth's attorneys are elected in their respective jurisdictions in both Virginia and Kentucky for terms of four years and six years, respectively.\n\nThe official name of Virginia is \"Commonwealth of Virginia\". At the time of the formation of the United States, it was one of three original states that used \"Commonwealth\" in its name, the others being Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. At the time, Virginia adopted \"Commonwealth's attorney\" as the title for its official prosecutors, while Massachusetts and Pennsylvania adopted the title district attorney.\n\nWhen Kentucky broke away from Virginia in 1792 to become the 15th state, Kentucky adopted the style, laws and titles of Virginia, which it has retained, making it the only State outside the original 13 States to have \"Commonwealth\" in its official name. Commonwealth's Attorneys in Kentucky have broad powers of subpoena, investigation, arrest, and prosecution. All 120 counties and 73 independent cities are served by a Commonwealth's Attorney office, in their respective Judicial District. In Kentucky, courts of general jurisdiction and state-level prosecutorial situations are called Circuit Court (\"Superior\" or \"State\" court elsewhere).\n\n"}
{"id": "1931937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931937", "title": "Harry Miller", "text": "Harry Miller\n\nHarry Miller may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931947", "title": "Michael Kelso", "text": "Michael Kelso\n\nMichael Kelso is a fictional character and one of the five male leads on Fox Network's \"That '70s Show\", portrayed by Ashton Kutcher. Tall, lanky and long-haired, Kelso had been accepted as the local idiot until he moved to Chicago for the eighth season. His behavior is very much in line with a stereotypical oversexed lunkhead or a male-bimbo who gets through life on his good looks. He spends most of the series in a mutually parasitic relationship with the equally vapid Jackie Burkhart, whom he continues to obsess over following their numerous breakups.\n\nIn spite of his stupidity, Kelso is shown on several occasions not to be immature, simply unmotivated; when he is either forced to or chooses to, Kelso displays startling intelligence unbecoming of his usual personality or hi-jinks. Near the end of the series, Kelso becomes one of the first characters to completely break away from adolescence and into adulthood when he impregnates a girl with whom he had a one-night stand; to his friends' surprise, Kelso took responsibility for the child, moving to Chicago to take a job to support and be near his newborn daughter.\n\nMichael Kelso was first introduced in \"That 70s Pilot\" as Eric Forman's lesser-intelligent, loudly obnoxious friend who is dating a preppy, younger student Jackie Burkhart whom he first met in 1968 playing fort. But later during the season the couple goes through multiple breakups.\n\nMuch to his friends' annoyance, he frequently claims to be breaking up with Jackie but does not go through with it, in hopes she'll 'put out' eventually (but instead, Jackie breaks up with him first). Because of her, he misses out on a Todd Rundgren concert, instead spending the evening making out in the back of the Vista Cruiser. As the series progresses, it is later revealed that Michael cheats on his girlfriend (most notably with Pam Macy and Eric’s sister Laurie). At one point, Jackie finds out and banned Kelso from coming to her ski trip, though Michael still attempts to find a way there. Kelso also unwittingly gets his friends into trouble after driving them around in an apparently stolen car. They were arrested, though Eric's connections with his father got them out of trouble. Eventually, Kelso loses his virginity to Jackie, though they go through a scare that she may be pregnant, which turns out to be a false alarm.\n\nEventually, Kelso purchases a van which becomes the main focus of his secondary story during seasons 2 and 3. On one occasion, Jackie wishes to decorate the van resulting in it becoming temporarily covered in stuffed animals, though all were removed soon after. The van becomes the gang's main source of transportation on long distance journeys, such as Van Stock and to the Ice Shack. However, it ultimately meets its fate when it sinks to the bottom of a river.\n\nLike Eric, Kelso buys his girlfriend Jackie a promise ring to show how important the relationship is to him. However, while Jackie is overjoyed with her ring, Donna becomes unsure of her future with Eric, causing Eric to break up with her.\n\nThe fourth-season premiere episode sees Eric envisioning a possible future with Donna, a woman he has not actually met. In this future, Kelso and Jackie have broken up once again only to consistently re-kindle their relationship for a one-night stand every time they reunite. Kelso also spends most of that season attempting to pry Eric from his depression, though ultimately chooses Fun Land over Eric in the second episode, only to get lost and brought back by a concerned mother. The mother, however, kicks him out of her car after he threatens her children following their insults to him, causing Kelso to walk home. Kelso is also elected for Snow King at the snow prom much to Jackie's disapproval.\n\nClass Picture is a flash-back episode revealing how each of the gang members met. Kelso and Eric's meeting is not explained thoroughly, though it is presumed they simply met in first grade. However, Forman's first impression of Kelso is remembered as Kelso showing up at the door looking for Eric in 1968 without pants. After a quick reminder, Kelso exclaimed 'My pants!!' before rushing home. It is also revealed he is the only male member of the gang not to have seen Donna's breasts, though she allows him to see them after. Kelso later invented a day which he named 'Prank Day' where he attempts to prank his friends as many times as possible. During the Season 4 finale, Jackie misleadingly believes that Kelso is proposing to her, causing him to decide to run off to California. After meeting up with Donna, who had recently been humiliated by her then boyfriend and Kelso's brother, Casey, they both take off.\n\nWhen Kelso returns at the beginning of Season 5, he finds out that Jackie has moved on to Hyde, which makes him extremely jealous and he spends the majority of the season trying to get her back. Eventually, Kelso claims to be over Jackie and renews his friendship with Hyde, and begins a relationship with Annette (Jessica Simpson), a girl he had a short relationship with in California. Jackie, in the same manner as Kelso had, becomes jealous and even goes so far as to yell, \"Get off my boyfriend!\" when she sees Kelso and Annette kissing. Kelso responded positively to this and began to make a big show of it. Annette leaves him at the school dance, telling him he isn't over Jackie, and Kelso soon realizes that Annette is right. So when Jackie breaks up with Hyde, Kelso does all he can to win her over, even competing with Hyde at some point. However, when Jackie chooses Hyde over him, he respects her decision and even helps to bring the two together again. From then on, Kelso and Jackie share a relationship as friends. In Season 6, Kelso is the focus of a major plot twist in which he accidentally impregnates a girl named Brooke in a bathroom at a Molly Hatchet concert. Brooke initially does not want Kelso in the baby's life, much to Kelso's relief. However, a pep-talk from Donna causes him to change his mind as he attempts to prove to Brooke he can be a father. In the seventh season, Betsy Kelso, is born. Brooke leaves for Chicago, giving Kelso permission to see Betsy whenever he can.\n\nKelso becomes a policeman, albeit a bumbling one. He attempts to take his job seriously by growing a mustache and calling himself \"Mike,\" and even going as far as flushing Hyde's marijuana stash down the toilet (in The Circle), but he quickly reverts when Hyde and Fez shave his mustache and made the mustache resemble the mustache Adolf Hitler was famous for. He eventually sets the police academy on fire using a flare gun, but even before then, had broken into the academy and gets his supervisor's squad car stolen by Hyde & Fez.\n\nAt the end of Season 7, Kelso drives Jackie to Chicago after her break-up with Hyde. When Hyde follows her there to propose, he finds Kelso naked, wrapped in a towel, making a comment implying that he and Jackie were about to have sex. Although Kelso frequently makes sexual comments to every female on the show, including Jackie and Donna, Hyde believes the two really were about to engage in sex, and drives off to Las Vegas, effectively ending his relationship with Jackie.\n\nAshton Kutcher did not renew his contract for the eighth and final season of the series but he appeared in a recurring guest role in the first four episodes of season 8 in order to bring closure to the character.\n\nThe series begins with Kelso avoiding Hyde after he catches him about to have sex with Jackie in a motel room. When Hyde finally catches Kelso, he punches him in the face and then decides to resume their friendship. With this storyline resolved and the end of Hyde and Jackie's relationship, Kelso resumes his police work duties. However, when Randy and Fez decide to throw a bachelor party for Hyde after his marriage to a stripper, Kelso is fired due to misuse of police equipment and unprofessional behavior. This causes Kelso to wonder what he has going for him and decides that Jackie is the one for him all along. He decides to propose to Jackie, seeing as she was the one he has always loved. He later rethinks this decision, deciding against it after a job offer is given to him. However, Fez had already told Jackie about his plans. Feeling pressured to do something, and scared that he might lose all his future chances with Jackie, he attempts to propose, albeit with a balloon (which is how Jackie wants to be proposed to), at the Forman's anniversary, but Jackie says no, much to Kelso's relief. They both decide they have a lot of maturing to do, many things to take care of in their own lives and, even though they both admit to loving each other, agree that it is not the right time to get married. He then joins his friends for one final circle before his departure. Kelso does not appear in succeeding episodes, although he is occasionally referenced by the remaining characters. He returns, though, in the series finale to welcome in the New Year with his friends, much to their pleasure.\n\nThe Fox Network announced on April 4, 2012 that Ashton Kutcher as well as other cast members of \"That '70s Show\" had signed on to reprise their roles for a special Fox 25th anniversary reunion special. The episode aired on April 22, 2012 as part of a two-hour special. The cast reflected on the show after 100 episodes.\n\nAmong Kelso's most famous personality traits are conceit and sheer stupidity, performing a great number of idiocies on a regular daily basis. Despite his stupid nature, he shows moments of shining intellect, demonstrating the ability to do fast mathematical division and fixing Red's Pong machine. During a flashback scene, it is implied that Kelso used to be a bookish, motivated student until Hyde introduced him and Eric to marijuana when they were in junior high. Throughout the series, Kelso has made a large quantity of moronic quotes and performed many dimwitted blunders, and possesses numerous infantile qualities such as enjoying Christmas specials deemed childish by his peers and fussing when something is preventing him from viewing them. It also been hinted Kelso loves dogs. Like the other teenage male central characters of the series, Kelso also possesses an abundance of \"horny\" personality traits and appears especially fond of the idea of having sexual relations and the willingness to spoil his virginity results in the impregnation of a librarian named Brooke and the birth of a little girl named Betsy toward the end of the series. He fancies himself as quite attractive and capable of winning the affections of women such as Jackie Burkhart, with whom he has shared an on-again/off-again relationship throughout the course of the series. Kelso also likes bands such as Led Zeppelin, Foghat, Deep Purple, Aerosmith, KISS, Ted Nugent, Pink Floyd, AC/DC, The Rolling Stones, The Who and Molly Hatchet. It is revealed in the Halloween special that Kelso is a year older than the other teenagers due to being held back a year in the first grade, which angers Hyde knowing that all along Kelso is legally allowed to purchase beer for the teenagers.\n\nIt is clear from Jackie and Kelso's relationship that Kelso definitely is not the one wearing the pants in his relationships; he is easily manipulated (Laurie pointed this out once and called him a \"tool\") and never fulfills his promise of breaking up with his girlfriend, although later it may simply be because he is afraid to break a woman's heart. When he dates Annette in Season 5, he even remarks \"It's good to be under someone's thumb again!\" with a grin, suggesting he prefers his women to be controlling. After uttering this line, Fez asks him, \"What did your mother do to you?\" which Kelso answers with a stupid grin. In the Season 2 episode \"Kelso's Serenade,\" he says, \"I wish Jackie was still controlling me, I love being on a short leash.\"\n\nKelso often remarks that he has an entire future planned out for him. He says this several times in the third and fourth season. This was apparently a way to convince others he was mature, but his friends viewed it as boastful and annoying. Kelso's only plan was to coast through his life on his good looks, and when he believes this might not happen, he greatly overreacts. He also has fallen off the water tower every year since Jr. High, a fact either explaining or explained by his idiocy.\n\nKelso is naive and simple-minded compared to his other friends. Also, Fez describes him as being delicate and sensitive. However, as the series progresses, a slight growth and maturity can be seen in his character. It is revealed in the episode \"Over the Hills and Far Away\" that the origins of his stupidity was because he was dropped on his head as a kid. (which easily upsets him because everyone else had the grace to never mention it).\n\nKelso's family is frequently referred to by other characters as being a large one, despite only one of his siblings actually appearing on-screen throughout the show's run. Some episodes portray his household as loud and obnoxious, such as when he opens the door, yelling can be heard. From the characters' dialogue, it can be assumed he is one of six Kelso boys and also has a younger sister, which Hyde implies to be fairly unattractive.\n\nOne grandmother, mentioned in the episode \"Dine and Dash\", has, in Kelso's words, \"honkin' whiskers.\" Despite Kelso's protests that his own mom is very beautiful, Jackie insists she too has the same whiskers then calls her \"whisker face.\"\n\nKelso's father, John Kelso, appeared in the episode \"Career Day,\" portrayed by Francis Guinan. John Kelso's office job as a specialized statistician is unclear and confusing to Michael, who decides to make it up and say his dad is a farmer.\n\nKelso is considered by many fans as the breakout character of the series. In the earlier seasons he is a supporting main character but in seasons 6-7 he becomes one of the shows leads along with Eric, Donna and Hyde. Kelso was also described by TV Guide's as one of 'TVs Most Lovable Lunkheads.'\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931948", "title": "Bible Presbyterian Church", "text": "Bible Presbyterian Church\n\nThe Bible Presbyterian Church is an American Protestant denomination in the Reformed tradition.\n\nThe Bible Presbyterian Church was formed in 1937, predominantly through the efforts of such conservative Presbyterian clergymen as Carl McIntire, J. Oliver Buswell and Allan MacRae. Francis Schaeffer was the first minister to be ordained in the new denomination. The First General Synod of the Bible Presbyterian Church was held in 1938 in Collingswood, New Jersey.\n\nThe Bible Presbyterian Church broke from the Orthodox Presbyterian Church in 1937, the latter formed slightly earlier in 1936 and a continuation of the Presbyterian Church of America (not to be confused with the similar but later Presbyterian Church in America). The name had to be changed because of a successful lawsuit in civil court by the mainline denomination regarding name infringement – a trademark-violation issue. After the conservative faction had left the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America (PCUSA), considerable dissension became apparent among the conservatives themselves, and it became evident that there were two groups within the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. The first group was more closely bound to traditional modes of worship, theological formulations, and the like. This group held to the classic formulations of Reformed theology (as mediated through the Westminster Confession and the Catechisms) and piety, thus forming an \"orthodox\" faction.\n\nThe other faction espoused a conservatism that showed a more keen interest in cultural and political matters, and saw the actions of the PCUSA as symptomatic of a rejection of long-held principles of conservative Christianity by much of the larger American society. This group was essentially fundamentalist in nature, and became associated with the \"Bible\" faction. McIntire laid the basis for much of what was to come to be called the \"Christian right\" in American religion and politics.\n\nTwo main issues made the existence of these factions within the Orthodox Presbyterian Church evident. The first had to do with a classic Reformed piety over against a piety of fundamentalism. It came down to a conflict of the use of alcoholic beverages. The \"orthodox\" side condemned drunkenness, but nevertheless did not agree that Scripture prescribed Christians to totally abstain from drinking alcoholic beverages, while the \"Bible\" side asserted that the Bible prohibited the consumption of alcohol entirely (see also Christianity and alcohol).\n\nThe second issue was over faithfulness to Covenant Theology versus the toleration of Dispensationalism. Those on the \"Bible\" side had come to tolerate, and even use, the popular Scofield Reference Bible whose notes taught the theological system called Dispensationalism, rather than the Covenant Theology historically held by many Reformed churches. Scofield's notes were under considerable criticism by faculty members of Westminster Theological Seminary, who led the \"orthodox\" faction. Historic premillennialism was tolerated within the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, yet the Dispensational form of premillennialism was considered to be serious error. Those who came to call themselves \"Bible Presbyterians\" saw the serious criticisms against Scofield's notes as a swipe against historic premillennialism itself, rather than merely the Dispensational form of premillennialism, and wanted the freedom to use the Scofield Reference Bible. The formal exodus of Bible Presbyterian churches came about in 1938, only two years after the forming of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, immediately after the failure of Rev. Milo F. Jamison, a Dispensationalist, to be elected Moderator of the General Assembly. The split was not on unkind terms, as was the case with the original split with the PCUSA. The Bible Presbyterian Church has always maintained the unity of the covenant of grace (a decidedly non-dispensational position), and, in later years, passed resolutions against dispensationalism in its annual Synod meetings.\n\nIn 1955–1956, a fairly acrimonious split occurred in the Bible Presbyterian Church, resulting in the Bible Presbyterian Church Collingswood Synod and the Bible Presbyterian Church Columbus Synod.\n\nWhile the Bible Presbyterian Church Collingswood Synod remained under the influence of McIntire, the BPC Columbus Synod, which included such men as Francis Schaeffer and Jay E. Adams would eventually move beyond its Bible Presbyterian Church heritage and eventually would take the name the Evangelical Presbyterian Church in 1961 (which is not to be confused with the current denomination of the same name, founded in 1981). In 1965, the Evangelical Presbyterian Church merged with the Reformed Presbyterian Church, General Synod, a denomination of \"new light\" Covenanter descent, to form the Reformed Presbyterian Church, Evangelical Synod (RPCES). The RPCES would eventually merge with the Presbyterian Church in America in 1982.\n\nShortly before the split, the Bible Presbyterian Church had established Covenant College and Covenant Theological Seminary, both of which would be supported by the BPC Columbus Synod/Evangelical Presbyterian Church and both would follow the Evangelical Presbyterian Church into first the RPCES and then the PCA.\n\nThe remaining synod retained the name \"Bible Presbyterian Church.\" The group experienced another split in 1979; the American Presbyterian Church left the BPC over roughly the same concerns that led to the original OPC/BPC split decades earlier.\n\nOn March 28, 2008, the South Atlantic Presbytery voted by a wide margin to disassociate from the Bible Presbyterian Synod, in opposition to formal relations recently established between the Synod and the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. The presbytery took the name Faith Presbytery, Bible Presbyterian Church.\n\nToday the North American body has 33 congregations. Bible Presbyterians do not have synod-controlled boards for missions and education, but annually approve independent agencies for mission work, as well as colleges and seminaries.\n\nThe Westminster Confession of Faith, Larger Catechism and Shorter Catechism was adopted in the first Bible Presbyterian Synod in 1938. It agrees with the original manuscript of the Confession. The denomination describes itself a confessional church, which believes in the historic Reformed Christianity.\nThe denomination comprises 33 churches mostly in the United States and 1 church in Alberta, Canada and 4 presbyteries. These presbyteries are the Great Western Presbytery the Eastern Presbytery the Great Lakes Presbytery and the Florida Presbytery. The highest governing body is the Synod.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931950", "title": "1960 South African republic referendum", "text": "1960 South African republic referendum\n\nA referendum on becoming a republic was held in South Africa on 5 October 1960. The Afrikaner-dominated right-wing National Party, which had come to power in 1948, was avowedly republican, and regarded the position of Queen Elizabeth II as head of state as a relic of British imperialism. The National Party government subsequently organised the referendum on whether the then Union of South Africa should become a republic. The vote, which was restricted to whites - the first such national election in the union - was narrowly approved by 52.29% of the voters. The Republic of South Africa was constituted on 31 May 1961.\n\nDespite the defeat of the two Boer Republics, the South African Republic (also known as the Transvaal) and the Orange Free State, republican sentiment remained strong in the Union of South Africa among Afrikaners. D F Malan broke with the National Party of Prime Minister J. B. M. Hertzog when it merged with the South African Party of Jan Smuts to form a Gesuiwerde Nasionale Party (or \"Purified National Party\") which advocated a South African republic under Afrikaner control. This had the support of the secretive Afrikaner Broederbond organisation, whose chairman, L J du Plessis declared:\n\nNational culture and national welfare cannot unfold fully if the people of South Africa do not also constitutionally sever all foreign ties. After the cultural and economic needs, the Afrikaner will have to devote his attention to the constitutional needs of our people. Added to that objective must be an entirely independent genuine, Afrikaans form of government for South Africa... a form of government which through its embodiment in our own personal head of state, bone of our bone, flesh of our flesh, will inspire us to irresistible unity and strength.\n\nIn 1940, Malan, along with Hertzog, founded the Herenigde Nasionale Party (or \"Reunited National Party\") which pledged to fight for \"a free independent republic, separated from the British Crown and Empire\", and \"to remove, step by step, all anomalies which hamper the fullest expression of our national freedom\".\nThat year, a Commission appointed by the Broederbond, met to draft a constitution for a republic; this included future National Party ministers, such as Hendrik Verwoerd, Albert Hertzog and Eben Dönges.\n\nIn 1942, details of a draft republican constitution were published in Afrikaans-language newspapers \"Die Burger\" and \"Die Transvaler\", which provided for a State President, elected by white citizens known as \"Burgers\" only, who would be \"only responsible to God... for his deeds in the fulfilment of his duties\", aided by a Community Council with exclusively advisory powers, while Afrikaans would be the first official language, with English as a supplemental language.\n\nOn the matter of continued Commonwealth membership, the Broederbond's view was that \"departure from the Commonwealth as soon as possible remains a cardinal aspect of our republican aim\".\n\nDuring the visit to South Africa by King George VI and his family in 1947, the Afrikaans-language newspaper \"Die Transvaler\", of which Verwoerd was editor, ignored the royal tour, making reference only to \"busy streets\" in Johannesburg. By contrast, the newspaper of the far-right Ossewa Brandwag openly denounced the tour, proclaiming that \"in the name of this monarchy, 27 000 Boer women and children were murdered for the sake of gold and their fatherland\".\n\nIn 1948, the National Party, now led by D. F. Malan, came to power, although it did not campaign for a republic during the election, instead favouring remaining in the Commonwealth, thereby appealing to Afrikaners who otherwise might have voted for the United Party of Jan Smuts. This decision to downplay the republic question and focus on race issues was influenced by N C Havenga, the leader of the Afrikaner Party, which was in alliance with the National Party in the election.\n\nMalan's successor as Prime Minister, J G Strijdom, also downplayed the republic issue, stating that no steps would be taken towards that end before 1958. However, he later reaffirmed his party's commitment to a republic, as well as a single national flag. Strijdom stated that the matter of whether South Africa would be a republic inside or outside the Commonwealth would be decided \"with a view to circumstances then prevailing\". Like his precessor, Strijdom declared the party's belief that a republic could only be proclaimed on the basis \"of the broad will of the people\".\n\nOn becoming Prime Minister in 1958, Verwoerd gave a speech to Parliament in which he declared that:\n\nThis has indeed been the basis of our struggle all these years: nationalism against imperialism. This has been the struggle since 1910: a republic as opposed to the monarchical connection... We stand unequivocally and clearly for the establishment of the republic in the correct manner and at the appropriate time.\n\nIn 1960, Verwoerd announced plans to hold a whites-only referendum on the establishment of a republic, with a bill to that effect being introduced in Parliament on 23 April of that year. The Referendum Act received assent on 3 June 1960. He stated that a simple majority in favour of the change would be decisive, although minimal changes would be made to the existing constitutional structures.\n\nBefore he was succeeded by Verwoerd as Prime Minister in 1958, Strijdom had lowered the voting age for whites from 21 to 18. Afrikaners, who were more likely to favour the National Party than English-speaking whites, were also on average younger than them, with a higher birth rate. Also included on the electoral roll were white voters in South West Africa, now Namibia. As in South Africa, the Afrikaners and ethnic Germans in the territory outnumbered English-speaking whites, and were strong supporters of the National Party. In addition, Coloureds were no longer enfranchised as voters and were not eligible to vote in the referendum.\n\nIn hopes of winning the support of those opposed to a republic, not only English-speaking whites but Afrikaners still supporting the United Party, Verwoerd proposed that constitutional changes would be minimal, with the Queen simply being replaced as head of state by a State President, the office of which would be a ceremonial post rather than an executive one.\n\nEarlier, in February of that year, British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan had given a speech to the Parliament in Cape Town, in which he spoke of the inevitability of decolonisation in Africa, and appeared critical of South Africa's apartheid policies. This prompted Verwoerd to declare in the House of Assembly:\n\nIt was not the Republic of South Africa that was told, 'We are not going to support you in this respect.' Those words were addressed to the monarchy of South Africa, and yet we have the same monarch as this person from Britain who addressed these words to us. It was a warning given to all of us, English-speaking and Afrikaans-speaking, republican and anti-republican. It was clear to all of us that as far as these matters are concerned, we shall have to stand on our own feet.\n\nMany English-speaking whites, who had regarded Britain as their spiritual home, felt disillusionment and a sense of loss, including Douglas Mitchell, the United Party's leader in Natal. Despite his opposition to Verwoerd's plans for a republic, Mitchell spoke in vehement opposition to many points of Macmillan's speech.\n\nIn Natal, the only province with an English-speaking majority of whites, there was strong anti-republican sentiment; in 1955, the small Federal Party issued a pamphlet \"The Case Against the Republic\", while the Anti-Republican League organised public demonstrations. The League, founded by Arthur Selby, the Federal Party's chairman, launched the Natal Covenant in opposition to the plans for a republic, signed by 33,000 Natalians. Drawing cheering crowds of 2,000 people in Durban and 1,500 in Pietermaritzburg, the League became the largest political organisation in Natal, with 28 branches across the province, with Selby calling for 80,000 signatories to the Covenant. Inspired by the Ulster Covenant of 1912, the Natal Covenant read:\n\nBeing convinced in our consciences that a republic would be disastrous to the material well-being of Natal as well as of the whole of South Africa, subversive of our freedom and destructive of our citizenship, we, whose names are underwritten, men and women of Natal, loyal subjects of Her Gracious Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second, do hereby pledge ourselves in solemn covenant, throughout this our time of threatened calamity, to stand by one another in defending the Crown, and in using all means which may be found possible and necessary to defeat the present intention to set up a republic in South Africa. And in the event of a republic being forced upon us, we further solemnly and mutually pledge ourselves to refuse to recognise its authority. In sure confidence that God will defend the right, we hereto subscribe our names. GOD SAVE THE QUEEN.\n\nOn the day of the referendum, the \"Natal Witness\", the province's daily English-language newspaper warned its readers that:\n\nNot to vote against the Republic is to help those who would cut us loose from our moorings, and set us adrift in a treacherous and uncharted sea, at the very time that the winds of change are blowing up to hurricane force.\n\nBetween May 1956 and June 1958, the anti-republican Freedom Radio, set up by John Lang, broadcast from the Natal Midlands, later resuming broadcasts shortly before the referendum in October 1960 until the proclamation of the republic in May 1961.\n\nBlack South Africans, who were denied a vote in the referendum, were not against the establishment of a republic \"per se\", but saw the new constitution as a direct rejection of the principle of one person, one vote, as expressed in the Freedom Charter, drafted by the African National Congress and its allies in the Congress Alliance. Despite its opposition to the monarchy and the Commonwealth, the ANC sought to mobilise white and black opposition to the republic, seeing it as an attempt by Verwoerd to consolidate the white grip on power.\n\nThe pro-republic campaign focused on the need for white unity in the face of British decolonisation in Africa, and the eruption of the former Belgian Congo into bloody civil war following independence, which Verwoerd warned might give rise to similar chaos in South Africa. It also argued that South Africa's links with the British monarchy led to confusion about the country's status, with one advertisement proclaiming: \"Let us become a real republic now rather than remain betwixt and between\".\n\nOne campaign poster used the slogan \"To re-unite and keep South Africa white, a republic now\" on posters in English, while in Afrikaans, the slogan was \"Ons republiek nou, om Suid-Afrika blank te hou\" (\"Our republic now, to keep South Africa white\"). Another poster featured two clasped hands, with the slogan \"Your people, my people, our republic\", which would sometimes be vandalised by painting one of the hands black, producing the emblem of the non-racial Liberal Party.\n\nThe opposition United Party actively campaigned for a 'No' vote, arguing that South Africa's membership of the Commonwealth, with which it had privileged trade links, would be threatened and lead to greater isolation. One advertisement pointed out that access to Commonwealth markets was worth £200 000 000 a year. Another proclaimed \"You need friends. Don't let Verwoerd lose them all\". Sir De Villiers Graaff, the party's leader, called on voters to reject a republic \"so we can remain in the British [\"sic\"] Commonwealth and have its protection against Communism and hot-eyed African nationalism\".\n\nThe smaller Progressive Party appealed to supporters of the proposed change to 'reject \"this\" republic', arguing that such a weighted electorate could not provide a valid test of opinion. An advertisement appealing to voters who might support a republic declared: \"The issue is not monarchy or republic but democracy or dictatorship\".\n\nWhites in the former Boer republics of the Transvaal and Orange Free State voted decisively in favour, as did those in South West Africa. On the eve of the establishment of the republic, \"Die Transvaler\" proclaimed:\n\nOur republic is the inevitable fulfilment of God's plan for our people... a plan formed in 1652 when Jan van Riebeeck arrived at the Cape... for which the defeat of our republics in 1902 was a necessary step.\n\nIn the Cape Province there was a smaller majority, despite the removal of the Cape Coloured franchise, while Natal voted overwhelmingly against; in the constituencies of Durban North, Pinetown and Durban Musgrave, the vote against a republic was 89.7, 83.7 and 92.7 per cent respectively. Following the referendum result, Douglas Mitchell, the leader of the United Party in Natal, declared:\n\nWe in Natal will have no part or parcel of this Republic. We must resist, resist, and resist it - and the Nationalist Government. I have contracted Natal out of a republic on the strongest possible \"moral\" grounds that I can enunciate.\n\nMitchell led a delegation from Natal seeking greater autonomy for the province, but without success. Other whites in Natal went as far as to call for secession from the Union, along with some parts of the eastern Cape Province. However, Mitchell rejected the idea of independence as \"suicide\", although he did not rule out asking for it in the future.\n\nIn a conciliatory gesture to English-speaking whites, and a recognition that some had supported him in the referendum, Verwoerd appointed two English-speaking members to his cabinet.\n\nOn 25 March 1961, in response to the referendum, the ANC held an All-In African Congress in Pietermaritzburg attended by 1398 delegates from all over the country. It passed a resolution declaring that \"no Constitution or form of Government decided without the participation of the African people who form an absolute majority of the population can enjoy moral validity or merit support either within South Africa or beyond its borders\".\n\nIt called for a National Convention, and the organising of mass demonstrations on the eve of what Nelson Mandela described as \"the unwanted republic\", if the government failed to call one. He wrote:\n\nThe adoption of this part of the resolution did not mean that conference preferred a monarchy to a republican form of government. Such considerations were unimportant and irrelevant. The point at issue, and which was emphasised over and over again by delegates, was that a minority Government had decided to proclaim a White Republic under which the living conditions of the African people would continue to deteriorate.\n\nA three-day general strike was called in protest at the declaration of a republic, but Verwoerd responded by cancelling all police leaves, calling up 5,000 armed reservists of the Citizen Force, and ordering the arrest of thousands in black townships, although Mandela, by now head of the underground movement, managed to escape arrest.\n\nOriginally every independent country in the Commonwealth was a Dominion with the British monarch as head of state. The 1949 London Declaration prior to India becoming a republic allowed countries with a different head of state to join or remain in the Commonwealth, but only by unanimous consent of the other members. The governments of Pakistan (in 1956) and, later, Ghana (in 1960) availed themselves of this principle, and the National Party had not ruled out South Africa's continued membership of Commonwealth were there a vote in favour of a republic.\n\nHowever, the Commonwealth by 1960 included new Asian and African members, whose rulers saw the apartheid state's membership as an affront to the organisation's new democratic principles. Julius Nyerere, then Chief Minister of Tanganyika, indicated that his country, which was due to gain independence in 1961, would not join the Commonwealth were apartheid South Africa to remain a member. A Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference was convened in March 1961, a year ahead of schedule, to address the issue. In response, Verwoerd stirred up a confrontation, causing many members to threaten to withdraw if South Africa's renewal of membership application was accepted. As a result, South Africa's membership application was withdrawn, meaning that upon its becoming a republic, the country's Commonwealth membership simply lapsed.\n\nMany Afrikaners welcomed this as a clean break with the colonial past, along with the recreation of the Boer republics on a larger scale. By contrast, De Villiers Graaff remarked \"how utterly alone and isolated our country has become\", and called for another referendum on the republic issue, arguing that the end to Commonwealth membership had dramatically changed the situation. Commenting on the enthusiastic welcome Verwoerd received from his supporters on his return, Douglas Mitchell remarked \"They are cheering because we have withdrawn from the world. Will they cheer when the world withdraws from us?\"\n\nIn a speech made following the announcement, Verwoerd said:\n\nI appeal to the English-speaking people of South Africa not to allow themselves to be hurt, though I can feel their sadness. A framework has fallen away, but what is of greater importance is friendship and getting together as one nation — as white people who have to defend their future together. Now there is a chance of standing together — one free country standing together on a basis which is the desire of friendship with Great Britain.\n\nFollowing the end of apartheid, South Africa rejoined the Commonwealth, thirty-three years to the day that the republic was established.\n\nThe Republic of South Africa was declared on 31 May 1961, Queen Elizabeth II ceased to be head of state, and the last Governor General of the Union, Charles R. Swart, took office as the first State President. Swart had been elected as State President by Parliament by 139 votes to 71, defeating H A Fagan, the former Chief Justice, favoured by the Opposition.\n\nOther symbolic changes also occurred:\n\nDespite the change to republican status, the coat of arms of Natal continued to display a crown, which had only been added to the arms in 1954, although this was neither the St Edward's Crown, with which the Queen had been crowned, nor the Tudor Crown, used by previous British monarchs, but a distinctive design.\n\nOther references to the monarchy had been removed before the establishment of a republic: \n\nThe new decimalised currency, the Rand, which did not feature the Queen's portrait on either notes or coinage, had been introduced on 14 February 1961, three months before the establishment of the Republic. Prior to its introduction, the government considered removing the Queen's head from the coinage of the South African pound.\n\nThe most notable difference between the Constitution of the Republic and that of the Union was that the State President was the ceremonial head of state, in place of the Queen and Governor-General. The title of \"State President\" (\"Staatspresident\" in Afrikaans) was previously used for the heads of state of both the South African Republic and the Orange Free State.\n\nThe National Party decided against having an executive presidency, instead adopting a minimalist approach, as a conciliatory gesture to whites who were opposed to a republic; the office did not become an executive post until 1984. Similarly, the Union Jack remained a feature of the country's flag until 1994, despite its unpopularity among many Afrikaners, and a proposal to adopt a new design on the tenth anniversary of the republic in 1971.\n\nUnder the new Constitution, Afrikaans and English remained official languages, but the status of Afrikaans in relation to Dutch was altered; whereas the South Africa Act had made Dutch an official language alongside English, with Dutch defined to include Afrikaans under the Official Languages of the Union Act in 1925, the 1961 Constitution reversed this by making Afrikaans an official language alongside English, defining Afrikaans to include Dutch.\n\nThe change in South Africa's constitutional status also resulted in changes to the country's public holidays, with the Queen's Birthday, commemorated on the second Monday in July, being replaced by Family Day, while Union Day, commemorating the establishment of the Union on 31 May, became Republic Day. Empire Day, which was commemorated on 24 May, but had come to be seen as an anachronism, had been abolished in 1952.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931951", "title": "George Young (rock musician)", "text": "George Young (rock musician)\n\nGeorge Redburn Young (6 November 1946 – 22 October 2017) was an Australian musician, songwriter and record producer. He was a founding member of the bands the Easybeats and Flash and the Pan, and was one-half of the songwriting and production duo Vanda & Young with his long-time musical collaborator Harry Vanda.\n\nBorn in Scotland, Young moved to Australia with his family as a teenager, and became a naturalised citizen. He was a member of the 1960s Australian rock band the Easybeats, and co-wrote with bandmate Harry Vanda the international hits \"Friday on My Mind\" and \"Love Is in the Air\", the latter recorded by John Paul Young (who is unrelated). Vanda and Young were also the producers of early work by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC, formed by his younger brothers Malcolm and Angus Young. Vanda & Young were inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame in 1988 and the Easybeats were inducted in 2005.\n\nWilliam Young (born 16 February 1911) and his family lived at 6 Skerryvore Road in the Cranhill district of Glasgow in Scotland. William worked first as a wheel boy in a rope works and then as a machine and saw operator in an asbestos and cement business. In 1940 William joined the Royal Air Force serving in World War II as a flight engine mechanic. After the war, William worked as a yard man for a builder and then as a postman. His wife Margaret (born 14 July 1913, her maiden name was also Young) was a housewife.\n\nThe 'big freeze' of 1962–63 was the worst winter on record in Scotland with snow eight feet deep. A TV advertisement at the same time offered assisted travel for families for a different life in Australia. 15 members of the Young family left Scotland by aeroplane in late June 1963 including fifth son George, and younger brothers Malcolm (6 January 1953 – 18 November 2017) and Angus (born 31 March 1955). Also aboard were his eldest brother Stephen (24 June 1933 – 1989), his only sister, Mrs Margaret Horsburgh (2 May 1935 - 2019) and brother, William Jr (born 15 December 1940). Another elder brother, Alex (28 December 1938 – 1997), stayed in the UK, and was later a member of London-based group Grapefruit. A final brother, John Young (born 17 May 1937), had migrated to Australia separately. Malcolm later described the family's musical background, \"All the males in our family played, Stevie, the oldest played accordion, Alex and John were the first couple to play guitar, and being older it was sort of passed down to George, then myself, then Angus.\"\n\nInitially staying at Villawood Migrant Hostel (a site later developed as Villawood Immigration Detention Centre) in Nissen huts, George Young met and became friends with another migrant, Harry Vanda. The Young family moved into a semi-detached house at 4 Burleigh Street in the Sydney suburb of Burwood. For secondary schooling Young attended Sefton High School.\n\nGeorge Young started his music career in Sydney. He formed there a beat pop band, the Easybeats, in late 1964, himself playing rhythm guitar alongside Dick Diamonde (born Dingeman Vandersluys) on bass guitar, Gordon \"Snowy\" Fleet on drums (ex-Mojos), Harry Vanda (born Johannes Vandenberg) on lead guitar (ex-Starfighters, Starlighters) and Stevie Wright on lead vocals (ex-Chris Langdon and the Langdells). All of the members had a connection with Villawood Migrant Hostel, and their early rehearsals were held in its laundry room.\n\nAside from performing and recording, Young co-wrote nearly all of their tracks. Early top 10 hits on the Australian singles chart for the Easybeats were co-written by Young with bandmate Wright: \"She's So Fine\" (No. 3, 1965), \"Wedding Ring\" (No. 7, 1965), \"Women (Make You Feel Alright)\" (No. 4, 1966), \"Come and See Her\" (No. 3, 1966), \"I'll Make You Happy\" (track on \"Easyfever\" extended play, No. 1, 1966), and \"Sorry\" (No. 1, 1966). Later top 10 hits were written with Vanda, \"Friday on My Mind\" (No. 1, 1966) and \"Heaven and Hell\" (No. 8, 1967). The Easybeats relocated to the UK to record and perform, but the group disbanded in late 1969.\n\nAfter the Easybeats dissolved, Young formed a production and songwriting duo with Vanda in 1970, as Vanda & Young, initially living in London. They provided pop and rock songs for other recording artists, and for themselves under various stage names: Paintbox, Tramp, Eddie Avana, Moondance, Haffy's Whiskey Sour, and Band of Hope. The pair worked with Young's elder brother Alex in Grapefruit. Young and Vanda returned to Sydney in 1973 where they worked for Ted Albert, at his Albert Productions recording studio to become the in house producers.\n\nOne studio-based group, Marcus Hook Roll Band, was joined in 1974 by Young's brothers, Malcolm and Angus. The brothers had already formed a hard rock group, AC/DC, in 1973. Young helped them with AC/DC, which went on to become a success internationally. He declared to his brothers \"that he didn't believe a band can ever call itself a band until it's done at least \"200\" gigs\". With Vanda he co-produced AC/DC's early albums, \"High Voltage\" (1975), \"T.N.T.\" (1975), \"High Voltage\" (1976), \"Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap\" (1976), \"Let There Be Rock\" (1977) and \"Powerage\" (1978). Young briefly played as AC/DC's bass guitarist for a short stint, early in their career. He and Vanda also co-produced the title track and two instrumental tracks on AC/DC's \"Who Made Who\" album in 1986 and the \"Blow Up Your Video\" album in 1988. Young alone also handled production duties for AC/DC's \"Stiff Upper Lip\" album in 2000. \n\nIn mid-1976 Young formed Flash and the Pan, initially as a studio-based duo with himself on guitar, keyboards and vocals, and Vanda on guitar and keyboards. They had local top 10 hits on the Kent Music Report Singles Chart with \"Hey, St. Peter\" (No. 5, September 1976) and \"Down Among the Dead Men\" (No. 4, July 1978). The group's ninth single, \"Waiting for a Train\" (December 1982), had lead vocals by their former bandmate, Stevie Wright. When the single was issued in Europe in April 1983 it peaked at No. 7 in the UK, No. 15 in Belgium and No. 26 in the Netherlands.\n\nVanda & Young also co-produced work for Wright, John Paul Young (no relation), the Angels and Rose Tattoo. As songwriters they provided \"Evie\" (April 1974) for Wright, which was a number one hit in Australia. They co-wrote, \"Love Is in the Air\" (December 1977), for John Paul Young, which reached No. 3 in Australia.\n\nAfter retiring from the music industry in the late 1990s, Young resided mainly in Portugal with his family.\n\nGeorge Young died on 22 October 2017 at the age of 70, three weeks before his brother Malcolm Young (of AC/DC) died. A cause of death was not reported.\n\nIn 1988, Vanda & Young were inducted into the inaugural class of the ARIA Hall of Fame. Young's brothers, Angus and Malcolm, were inducted into the hall at the same ceremony as members of AC/DC. The Australasian Performing Right Association (APRA) in May 2001 conducted a survey of music industry personnel to determine, the \"ten best and most significant Australian songs of the past 75 years.\" The survey listed \"Friday on My Mind\" at No. 1, and at the APRA Music Awards of 2001 ceremony You Am I performed the track with Vanda guesting on guitar. At the ARIA Music Awards of 2005, the Easybeats, including Young and Vanda, were inducted into the Hall of Fame. In 2007, \"Australian Musician\" magazine selected the meeting of Vanda and Young at the Villawood migrant hostel in 1964 as the most significant event in Australian pop and rock music history. Since 2009 APRA has run the Vanda and Young Songwriting Competition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931958", "title": "Carolina in the Morning", "text": "Carolina in the Morning\n\n\"Carolina in the Morning\" is a popular song with words by Gus Kahn and music by Walter Donaldson, first published in 1922 by Jerome H. Remick & Co.\nThe song debuted on Broadway in the elaborate (and risqué) musical revue \"The Passing Show of 1922\" at the Winter Garden Theater by William Frawley (who later sang it in Paramount Pictures' original version of \"The Lemon Drop Kid\" in 1934, on an episode of \"I Love Lucy\", and the season 3 episode \"Evening with a Star of My Three Sons\", where it generated moderate attention). Vaudeville performers incorporated it into their acts and helped popularize it.\n\nNotable recordings when the song was new were made by such artists as Marion Harris, Van & Schenck, Paul Whiteman and the American Quartet. \n\n\"Carolina in the Morning\" gradually became a standard, being revived regularly as a popular song into the 1950s. Al Jolson recorded it on June 11, 1947 and he featured it in the film Jolson Sings Again (1949). Danny Winchell had a hit with his version in 1952.\n\nOther artists to have later successes with the song included Bing Crosby who recorded the song in 1956 for use on his radio show and it was subsequently included in the box set \"The Bing Crosby CBS Radio Recordings (1954-56)\" issued by Mosaic Records (catalog MD7-245) in 2009. He subsequently used it in his album \"A Southern Memoir\". Other notable versions were by Dean Martin (for his album \"Swingin' Down Yonder\"), Jimmy Durante, Dinah Shore (for her album \"Dinah Down Home!\"), Judy Garland, and Danny Kaye. <br>\nIn 1957, Bill Haley & His Comets recorded a rock and roll version. Freddy Cannon recorded this song on his debut 1960 album \"The Explosive Freddy Cannon\".\n\nIt was also covered by Dick Van Dyke and Mary Tyler Moore on \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\".\n\n\nThe original 1922 lyrics are now public domain in the United States due to age. The chorus remains well known, but the verses have generally been omitted from vocal performances since the early years of the song's popularity. The verses give a hint of melancholy to the song, while the chorus on its own can be an almost ecstatic reverie. \n\nThe popular chorus has a catchy melody, constructed more creatively by Walter Donaldson than most Tin Pan Alley popular songs of the era. Gus Kahn's clever lyrics use playful wording and subsidiary rhymes within lines in a manner found in some of the better novelty songs of the era, but seldom found in songs where the effect was romantic rather than comic.\n\n\"Carolina in the Morning\" has been used in public celebrations in the states North Carolina and South Carolina. It is also frequently sung by collegiate a cappella groups. The song was also recorded by Brent Spiner for his 1991 album \"Ol' Yellow Eyes Is Back\". Among the more colorful renditions of this song was in the Warner Bros. cartoon \"Book Revue\" (1946) in which Daffy Duck sings a Russian-accented version, imitating a then famous Danny Kaye characterization, saying \"feener\", \"Caroleena\", etc., while wearing a zoot suit. Moreover, Warner Brothers utilized the song as part of the musical score of many of their Merrie Melodies and Looney Tunes cartoons. In 1951, Alfred Hitchcock chose a mechanical-orchestra version to play at an amusement park as a prelude to Miriam's murder in \"Strangers on a Train\".\n\nPerformance artist and comedian Andy Kaufman often performed the song as his character Tony Clifton, e.g. during \"The Midnight Special\" he hosted in 1981, and two years earlier, in 1979, at Carnegie Hall, where Kaufman appeared on one stage with Clifton (presumably played by Bob Zmuda) for a duet. \n\nThe opening line of the song was spoofed in the 1997 film Con Air when Cyrus \"the Virus\" Grissom sings, \"Oh, nothing makes me sadder than the agent lost his bladder in the airplane!\" It was also spoofed as the title of a book by Charles Osgood: \"Nothing Could Be Finer Than a Crisis That Is Minor in the Morning\".\n\nWECT TV in Wilmington, NC Morning Newscast is called Carolina in the Morning, It airs Monday-Friday 5AM to 7AM and Saturday from 6AM-7AM and 9-10AM and Sundays from 9AM-10AM it also airs on FOX Wilmington Weekdays mornings from 7AM-8AM.\n"}
{"id": "1931964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931964", "title": "Kote Abkhazi", "text": "Kote Abkhazi\n\nPrince Konstantine (Kote) Abkhazi () (November 17, 1867—May 20, 1923), was a notable Georgian military officer, politician and public figure. During the Imperial Russian rule, he was a General-major of Artillery in the tsar's army (1916) and in the national army of the Democratic Republic of Georgia (1918), and a recognized leader of the liberal nobility of Georgia. After the Soviet Occupation of Georgia, he emerged as one of the leaders of an underground anti-Soviet, national-liberation movement. One of the founders of the Tbilisi State University in 1918 and Chairman of the Georgian National-Democratic Party in 1921-1923. In 1923, he was arrested and executed by the Soviet security police (so-called \"Cheka\").\n\nKonstantine (Kote) Abkhazi was born in the village of Kardenakhi, Kakheti (Eastern Georgia), to a wealthy aristocratic family, the son of the General-major of the tsarist Russian army, Prince Nikoloz (Niko) Abkhazi and Princess Nino née Chavchavadze, the sister of an outstanding Georgian writer and public figure Ilia Chavchavadze.\n\nAbkhazi graduated from the Tbilisi Cadet Corps and the St. Petersburg Military Academy and joined the Russian army in 1890. Later, he was actively involved in Georgia's public life and sponsored several social and economic projects, including the construction of the Kakhetian railway between 1906 and 1913. In 1913, he was elected the marshal of nobility of the Tiflis Governorate, but he was called to an active army service with the outbreak of World War I in 1914. Being promoted to major general in 1916, he commanded an artillery brigade from 1914 to 1916. In 1916, he was elected to the State Duma of the Russian Empire for Tiflis.\n\nReturning to Georgia, he was reelected the marshal and helped found the National Democratic Party of Georgia in 1917. Under his leadership, Georgian nobility declared its property national. Abkhazi was involved in the establishment of Tbilisi State University in February 1918 and in the proclamation of independence of the Democratic Republic of Georgia in May 1918. In 1917-1919 he was a Member of the National Council of Georgia. He became a Chairman of the National-Democratic Party in 1921. Early in 1921, Georgia was invaded and occupied by Soviet Russia's Red Army, forcing the Georgian government to flee the country. Abkhazi stayed in Georgia, however, and joined the underground movement Committee for Independence of Georgia where he headed its Military Center. He guided the organization of guerrilla groups in Pshavi-Khevsureti, and Kakheti (1921–23). However, in March 1923, Abkhazi and 14 other members of the Military Center (Alexander Andronikashvili, Varden Tsulukidze, Colonel Giorgi Khimshiashvili, Rostom Muskhelishvili, Mikheil Zandukeli, Simon Bagrationi-Mukhraneli, Parnaoz Karalashvili, Iason Kereselidze, Ivane Kutateladze, Simon Chiabrishvili, Alexandre Machavariani, Elizbar Gulisashvili, Levan Klimiashvili and Dimitri Chrdileli) were arrested by the GPU, and were shot for anti-Soviet activities on May 20, 1923. He is quoted to have said prior to the execution:\n\nAbkhazi's son, Nicholas (1900-1987) and his Shanghai-born spouse Peggy Pemberton Carter (died 1994) moved to Canada and, beginning from 1946, built a well-known \"Abkhazi Garden\" at Vancouver Island, Victoria, British Columbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931966", "title": "Khalil Sakakini Cultural Center", "text": "Khalil Sakakini Cultural Center\n\nKhalil Sakakini Cultural Center () is a leading Palestinian arts and culture organization that aims to create a pluralistic, critical liberating culture through research, query, and participation, and that provides an open space for the community to produce vibrant and liberating cultural content. Located in Ramallah, KSCC is housed in a renovated building, dating back to the early 20th century, based on traditional Palestinian architecture. Initially established in May 1996 as a branch of the Palestinian Ministry of Culture, KSCC was registered as a non-profit non-governmental organization (NGO) in 1998. The center is named after the Jerusalemite scholar, poet, and nationalist, Khalil Sakakini.\n\nThe centre holds art exhibits, book readings, poetry readings, children's activities and film screenings. Additionally to long term projects KSCC has also transferred some of its activities to facilities outside Ramallah, such as to Birzeit, Gaza City, and Bethlehem, to enable continuation of the projects during Israeli imposed curfews.\n\nAdila Laidi was the first director of the centre between 1996 and 2005. Yazan Khalili has been the director since 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931967", "title": "Kololi", "text": "Kololi\n\nKololi is a resort town on the shore of the Atlantic Ocean in Gambia. It is surrounded by the Bijilo Forest.\n\nThe primary hotels are located on \"The Strip\" which is a short road leading to the beach and the hotels of Senegambia and the Kairaba. The Strip is lined with restaurants and entrance is monitored by the Gambian tourist police. A favorite with tourists, particularly from the UK, Belgium, Germany and The Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931968", "title": "Atari ST BASIC", "text": "Atari ST BASIC\n\nAtari ST BASIC (or ST Basic) was the first dialect of BASIC that was produced for the Atari ST line of computers. It was bundled with all new STs in the early years of the ST's lifespan, and quickly became the standard BASIC for that platform. However, many users disliked it, and improved dialects of BASIC quickly came out to replace it.\n\nAtari commissioned MetaComCo to write a version of BASIC that would take advantage of the GEM environment on the Atari ST. This was based on a version already written for Digital Research called DR-Basic, which was bundled with DR's CP/M-86 operating system. The result was called ST BASIC. At the time the ST was launched, ST BASIC was bundled with all new STs.\n\nA further port of the same language called \"ABasiC\" ended up being supplied for a time with the Amiga, but Commodore quickly replaced it with the Microsoft-developed AmigaBASIC.\n\nThe user interface consisted of four windows. An edit-window in which one could enter the source code, a list-window where the entire source code could be browsed, a command/debug-window where instructions were entered that were immediately executed, and the output-window.\n\nHowever, the windows could only be selected with the mouse, this became cumbersome.\n\nST BASIC had many bugs. \"Compute!\" in September 1987 reported on one flaw that it described as \"among the worst BASIC bugs of all time\". Typing codice_1 resulted in\n\nSimilar commands, such as codice_2 or codice_3, crashed the computer; the magazine described the results of the last command as \"as bad a crash as you can get on the ST without seeing the machine rip free from its cables, drag itself to the edge of the desk, and leap into the trash bin\". After citing other flaws (such as codice_4 and codice_5 not being equivalent) the magazine recommended \"avoid[ing] ST BASIC for serious programming\". Regarding reports that MetaComCo was \"one bug away\" from releasing a long-delayed update to the language, it jokingly wondered \"whether Atari has only one more bug to eliminate from ST BASIC or one more to add\".\n\nThe relatively low quality of ST BASIC quickly opened up a market for third-party BASICs on the ST. FaST BASIC and GFA BASIC were two of the first of these third-party BASICs to be released. As these BASICS were not free, a program written in one of these BASICs could only be listed and run if the user had that BASIC. However, compilers and run-time executables started to appear for these BASICs that produced executable code that could run on all STs, and type-in programs became less fashionable, so there was no longer a need for a standard BASIC. By then, HiSoft BASIC, Omikron BASIC and STOS BASIC had appeared. Some of these BASICs even started to be bundled with new STs in the later years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1931973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931973", "title": "Stephen Malkmus and the Jicks", "text": "Stephen Malkmus and the Jicks\n\nStephen Malkmus and the Jicks is an American rock band consisting of Stephen Malkmus, Mike Clark, Joanna Bolme, and Jake Morris. Malkmus was the main singer and songwriter behind the influential 1990s indie rock band Pavement.\n\nThe Jicks formed in 2000, almost immediately after Pavement's 1999 \"hiatus\" began. The group's first record - which had a working title of \"Swedish Reggae\" - was simply called \"Stephen Malkmus\". It was released by Matador Records on February 13, 2001.\n\nThe group made their official live debut at New York's Bowery Ballroom only a few weeks before their first record was released. Around this time, Pavement's auxiliary percussionist Bob Nastanovich began acting as The Jicks' tour manager, and Mike Clark joined on keyboards.\n\n\"Pig Lib\" was the name of the band's second record, which was released in 2003. The album featured a looser interplay between the musicians with longer song lengths and a growing emphasis on guitar solos. The album received positive reviews, gaining 4/5 stars from Rolling Stone and an 8.0/10 from Pitchfork Media. In 2003 the Jicks opened for Radiohead on their North American tour, and in 2004 the band helped to curate an edition of the British All Tomorrow's Parties festival.\n\n\"Face the Truth\", came in 2005 to widely positive reviews, many of them claiming a return to \"Wowee Zowee\"-type form. Most of the album was recorded by Malkmus alone in his basement, although each member of the Jicks play on at least one song on the record. The band toured only briefly behind this record, partially due to the fact that Malkmus had a new child. During this time period Joe Plummer briefly filled in on drums.\n\nOn October 2, 2006, it was reported by \"Pitchfork\" that John Moen had become a full-time member of The Decemberists and had been replaced by Janet Weiss - drummer of Quasi and the then-defunct Sleater-Kinney.\nThe band's fourth studio album, \"Real Emotional Trash\", was recorded at SnowGhost Music in Whitefish, Montana, and released on March 4, 2008 to generally positive reviews. While Malkmus spent much of 2010 on tour with Pavement, the band completed recording on their fifth album \"Mirror Traffic\" with Beck Hansen. Prior to the release, Janet Weiss' departure from the Jicks lineup was announced. Her place was taken by ex-Joggers drummer Jake Morris.\n\nThe band's sixth studio album, \"Wig Out at Jagbags\", was released on January 7, 2014. It was recorded in the La Chapelle studio in Belgium with Pavement's F.O.H. live sound engineer Remko 'El Duche' Schouten. Overdubs were done in Berlin where Stephen lived from 2012 until 2014 with his family. The album was mixed in Amsterdam's IJland Studio.\n\nOn March 26, 2018, it was announced that the band's seventh studio album, \"Sparkle Hard\" would be released on May 18, 2018.\n\nFor much of the band's existence, the Jicks did not regularly perform songs by Malkmus's previous band Pavement. However, since about 2012, the group has shown a greater willingness to occasionally play Pavement songs (generally one or two per show). Commonly played Pavement songs in later Jicks performances have included \"In the Mouth a Desert\", \"Shady Lane\", \"Box Elder\", and \"Stereo\" among others.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931976", "title": "Name Service Switch", "text": "Name Service Switch\n\nThe Name Service Switch (NSS) is a facility in Unix-like operating systems that provides a variety of sources for common configuration databases and name resolution mechanisms. These sources include local operating system files (such as /etc/passwd, /etc/group, and /etc/hosts), the Domain Name System (DNS), the Network Information Service (NIS), and LDAP.\nA system administrator usually configures the operating system's name services using the file /etc/nsswitch.conf. This lists databases (such as passwd, shadow and group) and one or more sources for obtaining that information. Examples for sources are \"files\" for local files, \"ldap\" for the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, \"nis\" for the Network Information Service, \"nisplus\" for NIS+, and \"wins\" for Windows Internet Name Service.\n\nThe nsswitch.conf file has line entries for each service consisting of a database name in the first field, terminated by a colon, and a list of possible source databases mechanisms in the second field.\nA typical file might look like:\n\nThe order of the services listed determines in which order NSS will attempt to use those services to resolve queries on the specified database.\n\nEarlier Unix-like systems, with the notable exception of Ultrix, either accessed only the configuration files or had hard-coded rules for files or databases to access; Ultrix offered nearly identical functionality to the Name Service Switch, using the configuration file /etc/svc.conf.\n\nSun Microsystems first developed NSS for their Solaris operating system, but subsequently programmers ported it to many other operating systems including FreeBSD, NetBSD, Linux, HP-UX, IRIX and AIX.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931983", "title": "Steven Hyde", "text": "Steven Hyde\n\nSteven James Hyde is a fictional character from the Fox sitcom \"That '70s Show\", portrayed by Danny Masterson. He is Eric Forman's (Topher Grace) best friend and by the end of season one, his de facto adopted brother.\n\nHyde is abandoned by his mother, Edna (Katey Sagal), who only appears in three episodes, two of which feature only her screaming voice calling from inside Hyde's house. His stepfather, Bud (Robert Hays), had left some years earlier when he got back together with Edna but they didn't tell Hyde of their whereabouts. A half brother was mentioned once in a Season 8 episode, though not much is known about him.\n\nHyde's best friend, and later foster-brother, is the nice, geeky Eric Forman. The two share probably the closest friendship out of the group, shown by how they care and rely on one another and one another's advice. He first met Forman in 1968 when he walked to Forman's home with him to protect him from Donna. Kitty , on seeing that Hyde was dirty , made Eric and Hyde bathe together upon which Hyde made Eric promise never to tell this to anyone otherwise he'd kill him but 10 years later , in the 4th season episode 'Class Picture' , Eric tells it as revenge for Hyde sharing the story of how Donna and Eric first met 10 years ago. When Hyde's mother leaves town at the end of the first season, Eric tries to persuade his parents to do something about his best friend's living conditions and thus Hyde is invited to live with the Formans, which Hyde does from season one until the series' end. He is adopted into the Forman family, and lives in the basement of their house. Since there are no extra bedrooms, he sleeps in a small storage room on a cot. When Red kicks Hyde out after an arrest for drug possession, Eric attempts to come to his rescue.\n\nHyde found a job working at the Foto Hut with his burned-out hippie boss Leo (Tommy Chong). Hyde and Leo become good friends until Leo suddenly leaves town because he remembered that he was only supposed to stay in Point Place for a short time, yet stayed for eight years, leaving his family behind. During his tenure in the Foto Hut, he was the more responsible worker between himself and Leo, even telling his own boss off for not doing his job. Hyde and Leo's friendship resumes when Leo returns near the end of Season 7. He gives the money he makes to Red and Kitty to help them pay the bills. It is evident that Hyde has a sense of propriety and responsibility to rival that of his friend Eric's, yet is not proud of it as he is more accustomed to his stoner lifestyle.\n\nHyde develops a fairly close relationship with Eric's dad, Red Forman, who admires his toughness, lack of showing emotions and traditional masculinity, a quality his son Eric lacks. Red becomes the closest Hyde has to a real father after he moves in with the Formans. Red does occasionally feel that Hyde can be a bad influence on Eric, particularly due to his frequent marijuana use, and briefly kicks him out when Hyde is arrested. However, he is often shown to have a deeper respect for Hyde over his own son and occasionally prefers Hyde over him (such as when he offers Hyde a job at his new muffler shop instead of Eric).\n\nIn the season 6 finale, Kitty discovers that Bud is not Hyde's real father. Subsequently, Hyde meets his biological father, William Barnett (Tim Reid), who is an African American, making Hyde biracial. He later meets his half-sister, Angie Barnett who dreams of one day running her own store, but ends up working alongside Hyde in their father's store.\n\nHyde is highly critical of organized religion. He tells an Episcopalian girl that she believes in \"the exact opposite of what he believes in\". Also, in \"Holy Crap\", he claims he doesn't go to church because it would make him a hypocrite, him believing that organized religion has corrupted the teachings of the likes of others like Jesus, Buddha and Muhammad. Despite the fact that Hyde mentions God (such as stating his hair was a gift from God in \"Eric's Hot Cousin\",) he does not express any sort of organized religious affiliation. However, he is shown on several occasions to be reverent and somewhat religious when times call for it.\n\nIn contrast to the sensitive New-Age men prevalent in the 1970s, Hyde is very traditionally masculine, much like Red Forman. He does not voice or show his emotions often (a notable exception being when he has to tell Jackie he cheated on her in season 5, and other occurrences throughout their relationship). He does not worry about romantic relationships and women the way Michael Kelso, Eric and Fez do; he considers himself too \"tough\" and strong for that type of behavior. He generally acts as though he does not care for anyone, perhaps as a defensive mechanism; however, it is shown during the course of the series that he does care deeply about his friends and the Formans. Hyde seems to be against extracurricular activities, although he does mention that he plays baseball in school and is a fan of the Green Bay Packers. Hyde's other hobbies include music, hunting, hanging around and he is also shown to have a talent in mechanics.\n\nAfter Eric's departure to Africa, Hyde's conflicts were front and center in the series, mostly due to his relationship with Eric's parents (his foster parents) and his short marriage to Samantha. He experiences conflict with Kelso, who he punches for attempting to sleep with Jackie in Chicago. He also struggles to maintain civility with Jackie and manage his career. Later in the final season, Hyde receives a letter from his father, William Barnett telling him that he is selling his chain of record stores. Hyde, angry at the vague letter, fears that he won't be able to continue the career he loves. This drives him to actually quit \"the circle\" (although he returns to it by episode's end) Later, Barnett shows up to Hyde's record store to tell him that he sold every store except for the one in Point Place and has granted him sole ownership of the last remaining Grooves. Hyde ends the series as the owner and manager of his Grooves record store.\n\nEarly on in the series, he is rarely interested in getting into a serious relationship, and is very cynical about the idea (as portrayed in some of his quips such as \"Dating is prostitution, only you don't always get what you pay for\"). However, as the series progresses, he enjoys a number of relationships. It was mentioned that his only girlfriend ended up leaving him for his uncle, and when Hyde and Fez make fun of Kelso for being \"whipped\" by Jackie, Kelso points out that he is the only one \"getting some\", which Hyde accepts with slight amusement.\n\nHyde's first love interest of the series was a proto-punk girl named Crissy, who wanted him to move to New York City with her, but he ultimately decides to stay in Point Place, and she leaves for New York. The relationship lasted only one episode.\n\nBefore Eric and Donna (Laura Prepon) started to date, Eric and Hyde both had feelings for Donna. Hyde tries to win Donna to the point that even Fez began to mock him over his repeated failed attempts. At one point he attempts to kiss her, but she rejects him with a slap. In an early episode, she blows off a \"study date\" with Hyde at the library to go out with Eric for Valentine's Day. Hyde goes to talk to Donna while she is out with Eric and tells her how he feels about her. However, Donna doesn't understand him because she is drunk. Hyde gives up soon after, prompting the assumption that he was more infatuated with Donna and not in love with her and they remain close friends.\n\nIn Season 5, he begins dating Jackie Burkhart. There is foreshadowing of their relationship throughout the series, most prominently at the Forman's Veteran's Day BBQ in Season 3, where Jackie's date Chip calls her a bitch behind her back. Hyde responds by knocking Chip out cold. Later that day, after talking to Mrs. Forman, Hyde takes Jackie out for their first date which leads to their first kiss. Hyde also took Jackie to his junior prom in the first season, and he is the one Jackie goes to for comfort when she and Kelso encounter problems in their relationship, prompting him to ask, \"Why does she always come to me?\" Despite initially loathing Jackie for all that she represents (she is spoiled, shallow, and rich), he has his first real romantic relationship of the series with her.\n\nHyde and Jackie's relationship is a very typical 'opposites attract' relationship. Hyde tells Eric that he simply ignores Jackie's constant complaining and bossiness and focuses on how \"hot\" she is instead, although he does become more mature and caring as their relationship progresses. They come together during the summer between Seasons 4 and 5 when they find themselves bored with watching \"The Price Is Right\". The relationship gradually grows into a surprisingly strong one, considering their past conflicts. However, Jackie sees Kelso making out with Annette (the girl Kelso dated while he was in California ) and yelled \"get off my boyfriend\". Hyde breaks up with Jackie but it only lasts an episode before they get back together and go to the Valentine's Day dance. They also go through trouble when Hyde mistakenly believes she is cheating on him with Kelso. In response, he cheats on her. He sincerely apologizes, but Jackie ends the relationship. The separation is brief, however, and they get back together at the beginning of Season 6. They remain together until midway through Season 7, when Jackie becomes insecure about their relationship and asks Hyde if he can see a future with her. His response, \"I don't know\", breaks them up briefly, but they reconcile after only a few weeks apart. However, when Jackie is offered a job in Chicago, Hyde is once again forced to make a decision about a possible future together. Just when Jackie thinks Hyde will break up with her for good, Hyde makes the decision to marry her. At that moment, he finds a note from Jackie that says she's left for Chicago, and Hyde is hurt and angry. In the following next episode, however, he decides to follow her and propose. In the middle of Hyde and Jackie's conversation, Kelso walks into the room in only a towel, carrying a bucket of ice and making a comment implying he and Jackie were about to have sex. Although Kelso frequently makes sexual comments to every female on the show, including Jackie and Donna, Hyde once again believes the two really were about to engage in sex, and drives off to Las Vegas.\n\nIn the last season, Hyde returns from Las Vegas after his confrontation with Jackie and Kelso. While he is in Vegas, he gets drunk and marries a stripper named Samantha. Although Jackie claims nothing happened between herself and Kelso in Chicago, Hyde chooses to stay in the marriage instead of annulling it, ending his and Jackie's relationship. The marriage is bitter, as they are often seen screaming at each other, but it is hinted that they have an excellent sex life and all the yelling was just a factor of it. In the middle of Season 8, Samantha's real husband showed up unexpectedly and decided to take Samantha with him back to Vegas. Donna points out that since Samantha was already married when she married Hyde, Hyde and Samantha were never legally married, making their marriage null and void. In the midst of the confusion, the two decided that it would be best for them to part ways, and Sam went back to Vegas. He had no significant other in the final episode.\n\nHyde is a rebellious, distant, wise-cracking boy with no respect for authority and often makes it his main priority to defy as many policies or rules as possible, and seems to take pride in his own disobedience. He is tough, highly intelligent, supremely insensitive and seldom feels compassion for others, and often will make a sarcastic remark rather than show sympathy for somebody who is suffering. In fact, Hyde is easily the most intelligent member of the gang despite his bad upbringing and poor grades in school. It is revealed in the Halloween special that Hyde's reputation is first sabotaged in elementary school, when Eric Forman ruins another student's diorama and Hyde receives the blame, and has since then maintained a reputation as a troublemaker and rebel. Although he rebels against school and other educational activities, he is generally smart, as in the episode \"The Crunge\", Hyde scores second lowest among the gang, but does better than Eric without textbooks and without applying himself. When other members of the gang need advice, Hyde is usually the only one who gives them real advice. Also, Hyde is physically the strongest (and presumably the best fighter) in the group, although on multiple occasions Hyde has backed down from an aggressive Eric and rarely ever lashes out on Eric the same way he does with Fez and Kelso. On many occasions throughout the show, Hyde beats up Kelso for various reasons, and he is easily stronger than Fez, Eric and even Donna.\n\nHyde has an afro and sideburns (or occasionally a mustache and/or beard), and his sunglasses, which he is almost always seen in, making him appear like Jeff Lynne of Electric Light Orchestra and Eric Bloom of Blue Öyster Cult. He regularly sports jeans and cowboy boots and was once failed in PE for refusing to wear shorts, and also has many rock band T-shirts, which include: Santana, Judas Priest, Eric Clapton, AC/DC, Queen, Kiss, The Who, Eagles, Led Zeppelin, Jimmy Page, Deep Purple, Thin Lizzy, ZZ Top, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Pink Floyd, Steve Miller Band, The Beatles, Black Sabbath, Jethro Tull, Jimi Hendrix, Alice Cooper, The Doors, The Rolling Stones, Ted Nugent, Boston, Rush, Aerosmith, John Lee Hooker, The Allman Brothers Band, Blue Öyster Cult, Sex Pistols, Ramones and the Grateful Dead. In at least one episode, he dons a two-tone green T-shirt displaying the International Paper corporate logo. Contrasting with his tough guy exterior, Hyde was once caught on videotape dancing to Frank Sinatra singing. Additionally, following his first breakup with Jackie, he happened to hear B. J. Thomas' \"(Hey Won't You Play) Another Somebody Done Somebody Wrong Song\" and becomes a fan of country music although the season 2 episode, \"Red's Last Day\", a drunken Hyde is seen singing \"Redneck Mother\" by Jerry Jeff Walker. Hyde, along with these many bands holds a passionate love of Led Zeppelin, the group he wears most frequently, and when once questioned by his father as to why he wears said shirts he replies, \"If God didn't want me to wear them so much he wouldn't have made them rock so hard.\" He also notes that he likes to watch \"Little House on the Prairie\", because it \"reminds him of a simpler time\". He dislikes the music of Pat Boone, Styx (although he did tap his foot to their music), ABBA, Andy Gibb, The Carpenters, and Little River Band. In fact, he once even broke up with a girl because she liked the Little River Band.\n\nSteven is known to drive a black 1967 Chevrolet El Camino that is referenced in several episodes. It was given to him by Leo in the episode Radio Daze.\n\nHe hates disco (even starting a disco burning bonfire in season 8); however, the real reason he hates disco was because of his lack of dance skills. However, Kitty teaches him to dance (which led Bob to believing Kitty was having an affair with him) and later danced with Donna to it in the first seasons.\n"}
{"id": "1931989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931989", "title": "USS Prometheus", "text": "USS Prometheus\n\nUSS \"Prometheus\" may refer to the follow ships of the United States Navy:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932006", "title": "Herman Steiner", "text": "Herman Steiner\n\nHerman Steiner (April 15, 1905 – November 25, 1955) was a United States chess player, organizer, and columnist.\nHe won the U.S. Chess Championship in 1948 and became International Master in 1950.\nEven more important than his playing career were his efforts promoting chess in the U.S., particularly on the West Coast.\nAn exemplar of the Romantic School of chess, Steiner was a successor to the American chess tradition of Paul Morphy, Harry Nelson Pillsbury, and Frank Marshall.\n\nBorn in Dunaszerdahely, Austria-Hungary (now Dunajská Streda, Slovakia), Steiner came to New York City at a young age.\nFor a time, he was active as a boxer.\nAt age 16 he was a member of the Hungarian Chess Club and the Stuyvesant Chess Club.\nWith the experience he gained in the active New York City chess scene, Steiner rapidly developed his chess skill and in 1929 he tied for first place (with Jacob Bernstein) in the New York State championship tournament at Buffalo.\nThe same year he was first in the Premier Reserves at Hastings, England.\n\nSteiner left New York for the West, settling in Los Angeles in 1932.\nHe became chess editor of the \"Los Angeles Times\" that year, writing a chess column until his death.\nHe formed the Steiner Chess Club, later called the Hollywood Chess Group, headquartered in a clubhouse next to the Steiner residence.\nThe Hollywood Chess Group was visited by many movie stars including Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Charles Boyer, and José Ferrer.\nSteiner and the Hollywood Chess Group organized the Pan-American International Tournament in 1945 and the Second Pan-American Chess Congress in 1954.\n\nSteiner played three challenge matches against Reuben Fine, one of the world's top players. Fine won all three matches: by 5½–4½ at New York 1932, by 3½–½ at Washington, D.C. 1944, and by 5–1 at Los Angeles 1947.\n\nOne of his major international wins was at the 1946 London Victory Invitational, the first significant European tournament held after the end of World War II. Steiner challenged Arnold Denker in 1946 to a match for the United States Chess Championship at Los Angeles, but lost 6–4. In 1948 Steiner won the United States Chess Championship at South Fallsburg, New York, ahead of Isaac Kashdan.\n\nSteiner was a member of the United States Chess Federation's teams sent abroad to the Chess Olympiads in The Hague 1928, Hamburg 1930, Prague 1931 and Dubrovnik 1950. As reigning U.S. champion he captained the 1950 team.\n\nIn the historic 1945 USA–USSR radio match between teams from the US and the USSR, Steiner was the only U.S. player to achieve a plus score.\nAlthough the American team including Reuben Fine, Samuel Reshevsky, Arnold Denker, and Isaac Kashdan, was badly beaten, Steiner scored 1½–½ against Igor Bondarevsky.\n\nSteiner was very active as a player in West Coast tournaments, winning the only two California Open tournaments he entered in 1954 and 1955, and winning the California State Championship in 1953 and 1954.\nHe was defending his State Championship in Los Angeles in 1955, when after finishing his fifth-round game (a 62-move draw against William Addison) he felt unwell and his afternoon game was postponed.\nAbout 2 hours later around 9:30 pm, Steiner died practically instantaneously of a massive coronary occlusion while being attended by a physician.\nBy agreement of the players, the 1955 California State Championship tournament was canceled.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932012", "title": "X-ray magnetic circular dichroism", "text": "X-ray magnetic circular dichroism\n\nX-ray magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD) is a difference spectrum of two X-ray absorption spectra (XAS) taken in a magnetic field, one taken with left circularly polarized light, and one with right circularly polarized light. By closely analyzing the difference in the XMCD spectrum, information can be obtained on the magnetic properties of the atom, such as its spin and orbital magnetic moment.\n\nIn the case of transition metals such as iron, cobalt, and nickel, the absorption spectra for XMCD are usually measured at the L-edge. This corresponds to the process in the iron case: with iron, a 2p electron is excited to a 3d state by an X-ray of about 700 eV. Because the 3d electron states are the origin of the magnetic properties of the elements, the spectra contain information on the magnetic properties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932015", "title": "Boutros", "text": "Boutros\n\nBoutros (), also transliterated as Botros and Butrus, is the Arabic form of the name \"Peter\". It is generally used as a male given name, but may also be used as a surname. \nNotable persons with the name Boutros or variants include:\n\n\nIt comes from the swedish leader Sventor Botrus Beltburg\nThe name botrus was a middle name but then transferred to a last name or a surname.\n\nThe name Botrus was also mentioned in the year 7000 bc- 6500 bc and then hit a downfall in name popularity.\n"}
{"id": "1932025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932025", "title": "Order of St. Olav", "text": "Order of St. Olav\n\nThe Royal Norwegian Order of Saint Olav (; or \"Sanct Olafs Orden\", the old Norwegian name) is a Norwegian order of chivalry instituted by King Oscar I on 21 August 1847. It is named after King Olav II, known to posterity as St. Olav. \n\nJust before the union with Sweden was dissolved in 1905, the Order of the Norwegian Lion was instituted in 1904 by King Oscar II, but no appointments were awarded by his successor, King Haakon VII. The Order of St. Olav thus became the kingdom's only order of chivalry for the next 80 years. The Grand Master of the order is the reigning monarch of Norway. It is used to reward individuals for remarkable accomplishments on behalf of the country and humanity. Since 1985, appointments to the order has only been conferred upon Norwegian citizens, though foreign heads of state and royalty may be appointed as a matter of courtesy.\n\nThe reigning monarch of Norway is the order's Grand Master. The order consists of three grades, of which two are divided into two classes, and may be awarded for either civilian or military contributions, in descending order of distinction. The collar is awarded as a separate distinction of the Grand Cross to those recipients deemed exceptionally worthy.\n\n\nThe \"collar\" of the Order is in gold, with five enamelled and crowned monograms \"O\" (for \"Oscar\", the royal cipher of Oscar I, the Order's founder), five enamelled and crowned coat-of-arms of Norway, and 10 gold \"crosses bottony\" each flanked by two battle axes with silver blades and golden shafts (The latter element is also featured in the coat of arms of the Church of Norway).\n\nThe \"badge\" of the Order is a white enamelled Maltese Cross, in silver for the knight class and in gilt of the higher classes; crowned monograms \"O\" (for \"Oscar\") appear between the arms of the cross. The obverse central disc is red with the golden Norwegian lion rampart bearing a battle-axe; the reverse disc bears the King Oscar's motto «Ret og Sandhed» \"Justice and Truth\" in Norwegian; both discs are surrounded by a white-blue-white ring. The cross is topped by a crown; military awards have crossed swords between the crown and the cross.\n\nThe \"star\" of the Order for the Grand Cross is an eight-pointed silver star with faceted rays, bearing the obverse of the badge of the Order (minus the crown on the top).\n\nThe \"star\" for Commander with Star is a silver faceted Maltese Cross, with gilt crowned monograms \"O\" (for \"Oscar\") between the arms of the cross. The central disc is red with the golden Norwegian lion rampart bearing a battle axe, surrounded by a white-blue-white ring.\n\nThe \"ribbon\" of the Order is red with white-blue-white edge stripes.\n\nIn very exceptional circumstances the Order may be awarded \"with diamonds\", in which case a ring of diamonds replaces the white-blue-white enamel ring surrounding the central disc on the front of the badge. \n\nThe insignia are expected to be returned either upon the receiver's advancement to a higher level of the order or upon his or her death. The insignia are produced in Norway by craftsmen.\n\nThe King makes appointments upon the recommendation of a six-member commission, none of whom may be a member of the government, consisting of a chancellor, vice chancellor, the Lord Chamberlain (acting as treasurer), and three other representatives. The Lord Chamberlain nominates the members of the commission, and the monarch approves them. Nominations to the order are directed at the commission through the county governor.\n\nPrinces and Princesses with succession rights to the throne are appointed to the highest degree upon reaching their age of majority.\n\nThe Order of St. Olav is the highest civilian honour currently conferred by Norway and only ranks after the military War Cross among all Norwegian decorations still awarded in the general ranking.\n\nIn the order of precedence used at the royal court of Norway, bearers of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav with collar are ranked 15th in the order of precedence, directly after the Mistress of the Robes and generals and directly before recipients of the War Cross with Sword. Bearers of the Grand Cross of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav are ranked 16th.\n\nThis list contains holders of the Grand Cross, some of whom have also been awarded the Collar and gives the year of their appointment. The list is collated alphabetically by the last name; those recipients not possessing the last name, such as royalty and most Icelanders are collated by the first name. Six of the listed are not heads of states or royals; these are marked by names in bold. Before the Royal Norwegian Order of Merit was created in 1985, appointments to the Order of St Olav was awarded to members of a foreign delegation during state visits. Many holders of the Grand Cross who are not heads of state are not listed here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932032", "title": "Savikalpa", "text": "Savikalpa\n\nIn the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\", savikalpa samadhi (Sanskrit: ), also called \"Samprajnata Samadhi\" and \"Sabija Samadhi\", is meditation with support of an object.\n\n\"Savikalpa samadhi\" is associated with deliberation, reflection, bliss, and I-am-ness. Deliberation and reflection form the basis of the various types of \"savikalpa\":\n\nAccording to Paramahansa Yogananda, in this state one lets go of the ego and becomes aware of Spirit beyond creation. The soul is then able to absorb the fire of Spirit-Wisdom that \"roasts\" or destroys the seeds of body-bound inclinations. The soul as the meditator, its state of meditation, and the Spirit as the object of meditation all become one. The separate wave of the soul meditating in the ocean of Spirit becomes merged with the Spirit. The soul does not lose its identity, but only expands into Spirit. In savikalpa samadhi the mind is conscious only of the Spirit within; it is not conscious of the exterior world. The body is in a trancelike state, but the consciousness is fully perceptive of its blissful experience within.\n\nAccording to Jianxin Li \"Samprajnata Samadhi\" may be compared to the Rupajhana of Buddhism. This interpretation may conflict with Gombrich and Wynne, according to whom the first and second \"jhana\" represent concentration, whereas the third and fourth \"jhana\" combine concentration with mindfulness. According to Eddie Crangle, the first \"jhana\" resembles Patanjali's \"Samprajnata Samadhi\", which both share the application of \"vitarka\" and \"vicara\". \n\nApollo 14 astronaut Edgar Mitchell, founder of the Institute of Noetic Sciences, has compared the experience of seeing the earth from space, also known as the overview effect, to savikalpa samadhi.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932039", "title": "Creeping elegance", "text": "Creeping elegance\n\nIn software development, creeping elegance, related to creeping featurism and second-system effect, is the tendency of programmers to disproportionately emphasize elegance in software at the expense of other requirements such as functionality, shipping schedule, and usability.\n\nCreeping elegance is also forced by customers and sales personnel in the last stages of software development. Often one comes up with \"just another feature\" before the delivery date, and the software developer is left with the hopeless case of prioritizing between delivery on time according to schedule or to fully satisfy customers and/or the sales department.\n\nComplexity and readability are the main reasons why programmers tend to favor elegance over functionality all else being equal, simply to mitigate the more marginal cognitive burden of the task, which is very high compared to many other fields even in computer science.\n\nIt is definitely an area in which management and marketing conflict a lot with programmers, but most programmers will behave very petulantly when asked to dive into a cesspit of ancient, complex, poorly documented and, hackish code, and often this will lead to easter eggs and intentional exploit vulnerabilities and staff turnover.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932040", "title": "William H. Pryor Jr.", "text": "William H. Pryor Jr.\n\nWilliam Holcombe Pryor Jr. (born April 26, 1962) is a United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and a Commissioner of the United States Sentencing Commission. Previously, he was the Attorney General of Alabama, from 1997 to 2004.\n\nBorn in Mobile, Alabama, the son of William Holcombe Pryor and Laura Louise Bowles, Pryor was raised in a devoutly Roman Catholic family. He and his siblings attended McGill–Toolen Catholic High School in Mobile. He earned his Bachelor of Arts degree from Northeast Louisiana University in 1984 (now University of Louisiana, Monroe) and his Juris Doctor from Tulane University Law School in 1987, where he served as editor-in-chief of the \"Tulane Law Review\".\n\nPryor served as a law clerk to Judge John Minor Wisdom of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit from 1987–88. \n\nPryor worked as a private attorney from 1988–95, serving as adjunct professor of maritime law at the Cumberland School of Law at Samford University from 1989–95. Pryor is currently a visiting professor at the University of Alabama School of Law and an adjunct professor at the Cumberland School of Law at Samford University.\n\nIn 1994, Pryor was introduced to Jeff Sessions, who was then campaigning to become the Attorney General of Alabama. Sessions won, and from 1995 to 1997 Pryor served as Alabama's deputy attorney general. When Sessions became a U.S. Senator in 1997, Alabama Governor Fob James made Pryor the state's Attorney General. He was, at that time, the youngest state attorney general in the United States. Pryor was elected in 1998 and reelected in 2002. At reelection, Pryor received nearly 59% of the vote, the highest percentage of any statewide candidate.\n\nPryor received national attention in 2003 when he called for the removal of Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore, who had disobeyed a federal court order to remove a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building. Pryor said that although he agreed with the propriety of displaying the Ten Commandments in a courthouse, he was bound to follow the court order and uphold the rule of law. Pryor personally prosecuted Moore for violations of the Canons of Judicial Ethics, and the Alabama Court of the Judiciary unanimously removed Moore from office.\n\nPryor has been criticized for his refusal to reopen the case of Anthony Ray Hinton, an Alabama man whose 1985 conviction was vacated in 2015. In 2014, the United States Supreme Court held that Hinton's trial lawyer was \"constitutionally deficient\" because he failed to research how much money he could obtain for an expert witness. The expert that Hinton's lawyer obtained on the cheap was insufficiently qualified. Hinton was released on April 3, 2015 after the State of Alabama could not regather enough evidence for a retrial. In 2002, Pryor opposed Hinton's attempts to challenge his conviction, stating that Hinton's new experts \"did not prove [his] innocence and the state does not doubt his guilt.\"\n\nPryor was nominated to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit by President George W. Bush on April 9, 2003, to fill a seat vacated by Judge Emmett Ripley Cox, who had assumed senior status. Originally, William H. Steele had been nominated to the seat in 2001, but his nomination had become stalled in the Democratic-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee during the 107th United States Congress because African-American groups protested his decisions in two civil rights cases as a magistrate judge. His nomination was withdrawn in January 2003. Pryor was nominated as Steele's replacement.\n\nDespite the fact that the 108th United States Congress was controlled by the Republican Party, Senate Democrats refused to allow Pryor to be confirmed, criticizing him as an extremist, citing statements he had made such as referring to the Supreme Court as \"nine octogenarian lawyers\" and saying that Roe v. Wade was the \"worst abomination in the history of constitutional law.\"\n\nDuring the confirmation hearing, Pryor was criticized in particular for filing an amicus brief in 2003 on behalf of the State of Alabama in the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Lawrence v. Texas\" that urged the Court to uphold Texas penal code § 21.06, which classifies homosexual sex as a misdemeanor. Pryor wrote in the brief that \"this Court has never recognized a fundamental right to engage in sexual activity outside of monogamous heterosexual marriage, let alone to engage in homosexual sodomy,\" further arguing that the recognition of a constitutional right to sodomy would \"logically extend\" to activities like \"prostitution, adultery, necrophilia, bestiality, incest and pedophilia.\"\n\nDue to a filibuster of his nomination, President George W. Bush installed Pryor as a circuit court judge on February 20, 2004, using a recess appointment to bypass the regular Senate confirmation process. Pryor resigned as Alabama's attorney general that same day and took his judicial oath for a term lasting until the end of the first session of the 109th Congress (December 22, 2005), when his appointment would have ended had he not been eventually confirmed.\n\nOn May 23, 2005, Senator John McCain announced an agreement between seven Republican and seven Democratic U.S. Senators, the Gang of 14, to ensure an up-or-down vote on Pryor and two other stalled Bush nominees, Priscilla Owen and Janice Rogers Brown. On June 9, 2005, Pryor was confirmed to the Eleventh Circuit by a vote of 53–45. \n\nPryor received his commission on June 10, 2005. On June 20, 2005, he was sworn in at the age of 43. Pryor was the only judge appointed to the Eleventh Circuit by President George W. Bush.\n\nPresident Barack Obama nominated Pryor to serve as a commissioner on the United States Sentencing Commission on April 15, 2013. Pryor had experience with sentencing issues and reform at the state level. \n\nDuring his tenure as Attorney General of the State of Alabama, he successfully led the effort to establish, by legislation, the Alabama Sentencing Commission. Pryor has written several law review articles about his experiences with sentencing reform. The Senate unanimously confirmed Pryor by voice vote on June 6, 2013, and he will serve a term that expires on October 31, 2017. On January 3, 2017, Pryor was named the Acting Chair of the Commission. Pryor will continue to serve as an active judge on the Eleventh Circuit during his service on the Commission.\n\nIn November 2014, Pryor wrote for the \"en banc\" circuit when it found, by a vote of 5–4, that an inmate who is no longer classified as a career offender nevertheless cannot seek a sentencing reduction. In \"Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v. Alabama\" (2015), the Supreme Court, by a vote of 5–4, vacated a three-judge district court opinion by Pryor which had rejected the plaintiff's racial gerrymandering claims.\n\n\nOn May 16, 2016, then-presidential candidate Donald Trump released a list of eleven individuals from which he would pick to fill the vacancy left on the Supreme Court by the death of Antonin Scalia, including Pryor. \n\nAt a Republican primary debate in South Carolina, Trump said the following about Supreme Court nominations \"we could have a Diane Sykes or you could have a Bill Pryor, we have some fantastic people.\"\n\nIt was reported in mid-December that President Trump had narrowed his choices to \"three or four individuals\", with the top two leading candidates being Sykes and Pryor. President Trump announced Neil Gorsuch for his pick for the Court on January 31, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932041", "title": "Testimonial match", "text": "Testimonial match\n\nA testimonial match or testimonial game, often referred to simply as a testimonial, is a practice in some sports, particularly in association football in the United Kingdom and South America, where a club has a match to honour a player for service to the club. These matches are always non-competitive.\n\nThe practice started at a time when player compensation, even those at top professional clubs, was at a level that made it difficult to maintain it as a primary form of employment therefore retirement savings might not exist. These matches are generally well-attended and the gesture by the club can give the honoree income that enables a retirement income base or enable the honoree an opportunity to establish themselves in other employment when they finished playing. This is still the main objective of testimonials in Australia, Ireland and some other countries.\n\nClubs typically grant testimonials to players upon reaching ten years of service with a club, although in recent years they have been given to players for particular circumstances such as approaching retirement. Typically, the club invites (depending on the career of the honoree) current or retired teammates (typically the honoree's club and national team) to participate in the match or with the associated festivities. All proceeds from the match go to the player which depending on the applicable country laws may be tax-free.\nThese matches have become less frequent as changes have occurred in football that make the original purpose less needed or appreciated. Wages have increased, players may not stay with a club as long as they had formerly and those top players that have the esteem of the public and in the past had financial need for such assistance make it less likely for the public to support the purpose of these matches. However, testimonial matches for players who have given many years of service to the club (i.e. one-club men) and are popular with fans have a higher turnout.\n\nTestimonials in top-level football have continued to honour a player but have increasingly become charitable affairs, in which the player gives part or all of the proceeds to charitable activities. For example, longtime Sunderland and Republic of Ireland star Niall Quinn, in a \"friendly\" in 2002 at the Stadium of Light, donated all of the nearly-£1-million proceeds of the match to the charitable foundation he started that go to the support of children's hospitals in Tyne and Wear, Ireland, and India. Another high-profile charitable testimonial was that of England rugby player Martin Johnson, held at Twickenham on 4 June 2005. This event, which featured many rugby union stars, benefited children's and cancer charities. On 4 September 2010, a crowd of 35,682 attended Jamie Carragher's testimonial match at Anfield, after fifteen years of service to Liverpool, and helped to raise more than £1 million for the defender's \"23 Foundation\" charity.\n\nIn addition to many exhibition matches which have been organised to raise funds for good causes, often in the style of an all-star game (such as annual Soccer Aid and Match Against Poverty events), some similar matches have been arranged to honour a particular player at the end of their career, with the proceeds going to charity – examples being Gheorghe Hagi and Tomáš Rosický – but these are not testimonials as they are not organised by a club.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932042", "title": "Un secret", "text": "Un secret\n\nUn secret may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932053", "title": "The Second Authority for Television and Radio", "text": "The Second Authority for Television and Radio\n\nThe Second Authority for Television and Radio (, \"HaRashut HaShniya Le'Televizya VeRadio\") is an Israeli commercial television and radio authority, established in the wake of a law passed by the Knesset in 1990.\nBesides conducting tenders and selecting operators, the authority regulates and supervises commercial broadcasts, ensuring that a certain percentage of the broadcast content is produced locally.\n\nThe Second Authority for Television and Radio is led by a fifteen-member council entrusted with maintaining the public interest in commercial radio and television broadcasts delivered by licensed stations owned and operated by entities in the private sector. Until the establishment of the Second Authority most radio and television media in Israel were public broadcasting services delivered under the auspices of the Israel Broadcasting Authority (the \"IBA\"). This included the country's then-single television channel and several radio stations. Since their inception, the Second Authority's television and radio broadcasts have been operating alongside, and essentially in competition with, the broadcasts of the IBA.\n\nThe authority handles citizen complaints, ensures that commercial advertisements are run within the allotted time and ensures that the operators maintain a certain mix of program genres as stipulated in their licenses. About 2% of the broadcast time on the commercial channels is reserved for various public-interest programs, which are produced by the authority itself.\n\nThe authority is also in charge of establishing and maintaining the nationwide DTT (DVB-T) infrastructure in Israel (also known as the \"IDAN\" project) which is utilized by both the Second Authority as well as the Israel Broadcasting Authority. In March 2011 analog television broadcasts in Israel ceased and since then terrestrial television is only broadcast digitally over the IDAN network.\n\nThe Second Authority issues licenses for commercial television and regional radio stations by putting those services up for tender and selecting operators from the tender responders. The Authority established the first commercial television station in Israel, \"Channel 2\", in November 1993 after several years of test broadcasts. Three franchisees were selected to operate the channel in the initial tender, \"Keshet, Reshet\", and \"Telad\", each of which were reserved certain broadcast days during the week and collected ad revenues for those days. Also, a fourth company was established, the \"Israeli News Company\" which is responsible for producing the daily news broadcasts shown on Channel 2. The channel has become successful and has provided a good return on investment to the three operators.\n\nIn 1995, the authority divided the country into regions and put up for tender licenses for 14 commercial regional radio stations. These are generally geographical in nature, although in practice there is considerable overlap between the various regions (and with certain radio programs being broadcast simultaneously across multiple regional stations through syndication agreements).\n\nIn 2002 the authority established an additional commercial television station, \"Channel 10\". In 2004 the network's operators and license provisions were reorganized to revitalize the station. In 2005, the original tender for Channel 2 expired and the network was re-bid, and is now run by two operators instead of three.\n\nOn November 1, 2017, Channel 2 had shut down, and each operator started its own broadcast channel with Keshet was assigned to channel 12 and Reshet was assigned to channel 13. Channel 10 also moved to channel 14. The Israeli News Company would keep produce newscasts for channel 12 and 13.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932062", "title": "Rick Flag", "text": "Rick Flag\n\nRick Flag is the name of three fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. They are father, son, and grandson.\n\nThe father, Richard Flag, was in the original Suicide Squad, a World War II unit. After the war, he was a member of Task Force X. His son, Captain Rick Flag Jr., was a member of the Forgotten Heroes and led two different incarnations of the Suicide Squad.\n\nJoel Kinnaman portrays Flag in the live-action DC Extended Universe film \"Suicide Squad\". Kinnaman will return to portray the role in the sequel.\n\nRichard Montgomery Flag led a division in World War II called the Suicide Squadron. In his first mission, Flag was the only survivor. After that his team enjoyed increasing success and decreasing casualties. After the war, he married Sharon Race. In 1951, with the disappearance of the Justice Society of America and other super-heroes, President Harry S. Truman again called on Flag when he created Task Force X.\n\nTask Force X would have two units: the military unit \"Argent\" (led by \"Control\"), and the civilian unit \"Suicide Squad\" which would deal with civilian matters — masked villains and the like. Commander Jeb Stuart would lead the military side to deal with national and international crises. Though Argent's recorded activity ceased after 1960, Stuart's Suicide Squad continued on. Eventually, Flag sacrificed himself in stopping the former Blackhawks' nemesis, the War Wheel.\n\nFlag was replaced in the Squad by his now-grown son, Richard Rogers Flag. Young Rick headed a new, public team which included his girlfriend, Karin Grace, Dr. Hugh Evans, and Jess Bright. In one tragic mission in Cambodia they were pursued by a Yeti. Evans and Bright and the Yeti fell into a crevasse, presumably to their deaths. Bright survived, angered at being left behind.\n\nBright, frostbitten and near-death, was found by the Chinese who nursed him back to health. He was then passed onto the Russians who transformed him into the bionic monster called Koshchei the Deathless. With his expertise in engineering, Bright assisted in the creation of the Rocket Red Brigade and lent a hand to the nation of Qurac in assembling their metahuman team, the Onslaught. Grace also secretly bore Flag's son and placed him with an adoptive family. Later, Rick was sent to infiltrate the Forgotten Heroes as a spy for the government. After the \"death\" of the Forgotten Heroes' leader, the Immortal Man, the team disbanded and Flag worked covertly for the U.S. government.\n\nRick Flag Jr. was then tapped by the government to lead the new Suicide Squad as formed by Amanda Waller, a role he reluctantly assumed. Immediately, Rick showed signs of instability, which were worsened when Karin Grace became the team's medic. Flag hated working with the criminals under his command, and resented the notion that he and Deadshot were alike in any way.\n\nThere were bright points amongst the Suicide Squad however, as the team was not completely filled with criminals. Nightshade, although she resented Flag at first when she was forced to become an accessory to murder when she became an undercover operative in the Jihad, grew attracted to him. She was never able to admit her feelings to him however, and he took no notice.\n\nFlag also held good relationships with Nemesis and the Bronze Tiger, even though both were in some ways opposed to Flag. Although Nemesis had feelings for Nightshade, something to which Flag was oblivious, he stepped out of the way and respected Nightshade's feelings. Similarly, the Tiger was originally tapped to become the Squad's leader, but was instead replaced by Flag, something that the Tiger had no problems with.\n\nThe loyalty Flag had towards his teammates and Waller was evident in the fact that he did not shy away from a conflict with the Justice League in order to free Nemesis from Soviet captivity. He also threatened a bureaucrat who was threatening Waller's position.\n\nThis did nothing to ease Flag's mental instability, and it soon worsened. Flag led a different Squad in a deadly mission involving the Doom Patrol in which he was the only survivor. The death of Karin Grace also served to amplify this and it came to a head when US Senator Cray threatened to reveal the existence of the Suicide Squad to the public.\n\nUnbeknownst to him, Amanda Waller had already dealt with the threat, and Flag set out to assassinate Cray in order to ensure the existence of the Suicide Squad, even though he loathed some of its members. The Squad set out to stop him, with the clearance to do so by any means necessary. The villain Deadshot found Flag and Cray, but instead of killing Flag, Deadshot instead murdered the senator. Flag was forced to flee, and unwittingly, the existence of the Suicide Squad was still revealed.\n\nFlag set out to destroy the Jihad team once and for all after learning that his father had previously attacked their stronghold, Jotunheim, during World War II in order to neutralise a Nazi prototype nuclear weapon. He left a note to Nightshade detailing his plans. The bomb was still there, buried under rubble and the Jihad were unaware of its presence. Flag sneaked in and killed his way through to the bomb itself. He battled the Jihad's leader Rustam personally, just before the bomb exploded.\n\nAfter his death, Flag appeared in an issue of Captain Atom, where his soul was saved from an eternity in Purgatory and reunited with Karin in Paradise. His Purgatory self also appears in the \"Day of Judgement\", limited series. Along with other Purgatory bound souls, he battles heavenly agents on the behalf of a still living superhero team. As stated in issue five of the series, his rebellious actions earned him another after-life chance.\n\nOne Year Later in \"Checkmate\" (vol. 2) #6, Rick Flag is revealed to be alive and is rescued from a secret Quraci prison by the Bronze Tiger. He had been imprisoned there for four years until Amanda Waller discovered him and alerted the Tiger to his whereabouts. Rick was later revealed to be leading a clandestine Suicide Squad unit at the behest of Amanda Waller, and against the expressed mandate of the Checkmate organization.\n\nBob Greenberger, who co-created the Suicide Squad alongside John Ostrander, has publicly objected to the resurrection of Rick Flag. According to Greg Rucka, Rick Flag's subsequent re-appearance had nothing to do with \"Infinite Crisis\", and John Ostrander has stated that he knew how Rick Flag could survive the explosion at Jotunheim when he first wrote it.\n\nAs seen in \"Suicide Squad: Raise the Flag\" #2, Rustam used his Scimitar to teleport both Rick Flag and himself to Skartaris. In \"Raise the Flag\" #5, General Wade Eiling admits that Rick Flag Jr. is not actually the son of Rick Flag Sr., but is a soldier named Anthony Miller who was brainwashed by Eiling into believing he was Flag's son. Miller's conditioning means that Eiling still has control of him, and uses him as part of his takeover of the Suicide Squad. Forced to activate an explosive implant in Amanda Waller's brain, Miller breaks free from his mind control enough to activate Eiling's implant instead, leaving him helpless enough to be captured. Confronted with the possibility to give up his presumed identity and return home, Miller decides that the Suicide Squad needs a Rick Flag, and refuses the offer.\n\nRick Flag Jr.'s young son by Karin Grace who also shared his name was introduced in \"Suicide Squad\" #50. The boy was kidnapped by Koschei the Deathless (Jess Bright) a member of the Jihad, but was rescued by Nemesis of the Suicide Squad. He has since appeared in \"Suicide Squad: Raise the Flag\" #4, in which Flag Jr and Bronze Tiger visit his adopted home, but Flag Jr. refuses to approach him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932063", "title": "Dye-sensitized solar cell", "text": "Dye-sensitized solar cell\n\nA dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC, DSC, DYSC or Grätzel cell) is a low-cost solar cell belonging to the group of thin film solar cells. It is based on a semiconductor formed between a photo-sensitized anode and an electrolyte, a \"photoelectrochemical\" system. The modern version of a dye solar cell, also known as the Grätzel cell, was originally co-invented in 1988 by Brian O'Regan and Michael Grätzel at UC Berkeley and this work was later developed by the aforementioned scientists at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne until the publication of the first high efficiency DSSC in 1991. Michael Grätzel has been awarded the 2010 Millennium Technology Prize for this invention.\n\nThe DSSC has a number of attractive features; it is simple to make using conventional roll-printing techniques, is semi-flexible and semi-transparent which offers a variety of uses not applicable to glass-based systems, and most of the materials used are low-cost. In practice it has proven difficult to eliminate a number of expensive materials, notably platinum and ruthenium, and the liquid electrolyte presents a serious challenge to making a cell suitable for use in all weather. Although its conversion efficiency is less than the best thin-film cells, in theory its price/performance ratio should be good enough to allow them to compete with fossil fuel electrical generation by achieving grid parity. Commercial applications, which were held up due to chemical stability problems, are forecast in the European Union Photovoltaic Roadmap to significantly contribute to renewable electricity generation by 2020.\n\nIn a traditional solid-state semiconductor, a solar cell is made from two doped crystals, one doped with n-type impurities (n-type semiconductor), which add additional free conduction band electrons, and the other doped with p-type impurities (p-type semiconductor), which add additional electron holes. When placed in contact, some of the electrons in the n-type portion flow into the p-type to \"fill in\" the missing electrons, also known as electron holes. Eventually enough electrons will flow across the boundary to equalize the Fermi levels of the two materials. The result is a region at the interface, the p-n junction, where charge carriers are depleted and/or accumulated on each side of the interface. In silicon, this transfer of electrons produces a potential barrier of about 0.6 to 0.7 V.\n\nWhen placed in the sun, photons of the sunlight can excite electrons on the p-type side of the semiconductor, a process known as photoexcitation. In silicon, sunlight can provide enough energy to push an electron out of the lower-energy valence band into the higher-energy conduction band. As the name implies, electrons in the conduction band are free to move about the silicon. When a load is placed across the cell as a whole, these electrons will flow out of the p-type side into the n-type side, lose energy while moving through the external circuit, and then flow back into the p-type material where they can once again re-combine with the valence-band hole they left behind. In this way, sunlight creates an electric current.\n\nIn any semiconductor, the band gap means that only photons with that amount of energy, or more, will contribute to producing a current. In the case of silicon, the majority of visible light from red to violet has sufficient energy to make this happen. Unfortunately higher energy photons, those at the blue and violet end of the spectrum, have more than enough energy to cross the band gap; although some of this extra energy is transferred into the electrons, the majority of it is wasted as heat. Another issue is that in order to have a reasonable chance of capturing a photon, the n-type layer has to be fairly thick. This also increases the chance that a freshly ejected electron will meet up with a previously created hole in the material before reaching the p-n junction. These effects produce an upper limit on the efficiency of silicon solar cells, currently around 12 to 15% for common modules and up to 25% for the best laboratory cells (33.16% is the theoretical maximum efficiency for single band gap solar cells, see Shockley–Queisser limit.).\n\nBy far the biggest problem with the conventional approach is cost; solar cells require a relatively thick layer of doped silicon in order to have reasonable photon capture rates, and silicon processing is expensive. There have been a number of different approaches to reduce this cost over the last decade, notably the thin-film approaches, but to date they have seen limited application due to a variety of practical problems. Another line of research has been to dramatically improve efficiency through the multi-junction approach, although these cells are very high cost and suitable only for large commercial deployments. In general terms the types of cells suitable for rooftop deployment have not changed significantly in efficiency, although costs have dropped somewhat due to increased supply.\n\nIn the late 1960s it was discovered that illuminated organic dyes can generate electricity at oxide electrodes in electrochemical cells. In an effort to understand and simulate the primary processes in photosynthesis the phenomenon was studied at the University of California at Berkeley with chlorophyll extracted from spinach (bio-mimetic or bionic approach). On the basis of such experiments electric power generation via the dye sensitization solar cell (DSSC) principle was demonstrated and discussed in 1972. The instability of the dye solar cell was identified as a main challenge. Its efficiency could, during the following two decades, be improved by optimizing the porosity of the electrode prepared from fine oxide powder, but the instability remained a problem.\n\nA modern DSSC is composed of a porous layer of titanium dioxide nanoparticles, covered with a molecular dye that absorbs sunlight, like the chlorophyll in green leaves. The titanium dioxide is immersed under an electrolyte solution, above which is a platinum-based catalyst. As in a conventional alkaline battery, an anode (the titanium dioxide) and a cathode (the platinum) are placed on either side of a liquid conductor (the electrolyte).\n\nSunlight passes through the transparent electrode into the dye layer where it can excite electrons that then flow into the titanium dioxide. The electrons flow toward the transparent electrode where they are collected for powering a load. After flowing through the external circuit, they are re-introduced into the cell on a metal electrode on the back, flowing into the electrolyte. The electrolyte then transports the electrons back to the dye molecules.\n\nDye-sensitized solar cells separate the two functions provided by silicon in a traditional cell design. Normally the silicon acts as both the source of photoelectrons, as well as providing the electric field to separate the charges and create a current. In the dye-sensitized solar cell, the bulk of the semiconductor is used solely for charge transport, the photoelectrons are provided from a separate photosensitive dye. Charge separation occurs at the surfaces between the dye, semiconductor and electrolyte.\n\nThe dye molecules are quite small (nanometer sized), so in order to capture a reasonable amount of the incoming light the layer of dye molecules needs to be made fairly thick, much thicker than the molecules themselves. To address this problem, a nanomaterial is used as a scaffold to hold large numbers of the dye molecules in a 3-D matrix, increasing the number of molecules for any given surface area of cell. In existing designs, this scaffolding is provided by the semiconductor material, which serves double-duty.\n\nIn the case of the original Grätzel and O'Regan design, the cell has 3 primary parts. On top is a transparent anode made of fluoride-doped tin dioxide (SnO:F) deposited on the back of a (typically glass) plate. On the back of this conductive plate is a thin layer of titanium dioxide (TiO), which forms into a highly porous structure with an extremely high surface area. The (TiO) is chemically bound by a process called sintering. TiO only absorbs a small fraction of the solar photons (those in the UV). The plate is then immersed in a mixture of a photosensitive ruthenium-polypyridyl dye (also called molecular sensitizers) and a solvent. After soaking the film in the dye solution, a thin layer of the dye is left covalently bonded to the surface of the TiO. The bond is either an ester, chelating, or bidentate bridging linkage.\n\nA separate plate is then made with a thin layer of the iodide electrolyte spread over a conductive sheet, typically platinum metal. The two plates are then joined and sealed together to prevent the electrolyte from leaking. The construction is simple enough that there are hobby kits available to hand-construct them. Although they use a number of \"advanced\" materials, these are inexpensive compared to the silicon needed for normal cells because they require no expensive manufacturing steps. TiO, for instance, is already widely used as a paint base.\n\nOne of the efficient DSSCs devices uses ruthenium-based molecular dye, e.g. [Ru(4,4'-dicarboxy-2,2'-bipyridine)(NCS)] (N3), that is bound to a photoanode via carboxylate moieties. The photoanode consists of 12 μm thick film of transparent 10–20 nm diameter TiO nanoparticles covered with a 4 μm thick film of much larger (400 nm diameter) particles that scatter photons back into the transparent film. The excited dye rapidly injects an electron into the TiO after light absorption. The injected electron diffuses through the sintered particle network to be collected at the front side transparent conducting oxide (TCO) electrode, while the dye is regenerated via reduction by a redox shuttle, I/I, dissolved in a solution. Diffusion of the oxidized form of the shuttle to the counter electrode completes the circuit.\n\nThe following steps convert in a DSSC photons (light) to current:\n\nThe efficiency of a DSSC depends on four energy levels of the component: the excited state (approximately LUMO) and the ground state (HOMO) of the photosensitizer, the Fermi level of the TiO electrode and the redox potential of the mediator (I/I) in the electrolyte.\n\nIn DSSC, electrodes consisted of sintered semiconducting nanoparticles, mainly TiO or ZnO. These nanoparticle DSSCs rely on trap-limited diffusion through the semiconductor nanoparticles for the electron transport. This limits the device efficiency since it is a slow transport mechanism. Recombination is more likely to occur at longer wavelengths of radiation. Moreover, sintering of nanoparticles requires a high temperature of about 450 °C, which restricts the fabrication of these cells to robust, rigid solid substrates. It has been proven that there is an increase in the efficiency of DSSC, if the sintered nanoparticle electrode is replaced by a specially designed electrode possessing an exotic 'nanoplant-like' morphology.\n\nSunlight enters the cell through the transparent SnO:F top contact, striking the dye on the surface of the TiO. Photons striking the dye with enough energy to be absorbed create an excited state of the dye, from which an electron can be \"injected\" directly into the conduction band of the TiO. From there it moves by diffusion (as a result of an electron concentration gradient) to the clear anode on top.\n\nMeanwhile, the dye molecule has lost an electron and the molecule will decompose if another electron is not provided. The dye strips one from iodide in electrolyte below the TiO, oxidizing it into triiodide. This reaction occurs quite quickly compared to the time that it takes for the injected electron to recombine with the oxidized dye molecule, preventing this recombination reaction that would effectively short-circuit the solar cell.\n\nThe triiodide then recovers its missing electron by mechanically diffusing to the bottom of the cell, where the counter electrode re-introduces the electrons after flowing through the external circuit.\n\nSeveral important measures are used to characterize solar cells. The most obvious is the total amount of electrical power produced for a given amount of solar power shining on the cell. Expressed as a percentage, this is known as the \"solar conversion efficiency\". Electrical power is the product of current and voltage, so the maximum values for these measurements are important as well, J and V respectively. Finally, in order to understand the underlying physics, the \"quantum efficiency\" is used to compare the chance that one photon (of a particular energy) will create one electron.\n\nIn quantum efficiency terms, DSSCs are extremely efficient. Due to their \"depth\" in the nanostructure there is a very high chance that a photon will be absorbed, and the dyes are very effective at converting them to electrons. Most of the small losses that do exist in DSSC's are due to conduction losses in the TiO and the clear electrode, or optical losses in the front electrode. The overall quantum efficiency for green light is about 90%, with the \"lost\" 10% being largely accounted for by the optical losses in the top electrode. The quantum efficiency of traditional designs vary, depending on their thickness, but are about the same as the DSSC.\n\nIn theory, the maximum voltage generated by such a cell is simply the difference between the (\"quasi\"-)Fermi level of the TiO and the redox potential of the electrolyte, about 0.7 V under solar illumination conditions (V). That is, if an illuminated DSSC is connected to a voltmeter in an \"open circuit\", it would read about 0.7 V. In terms of voltage, DSSCs offer slightly higher V than silicon, about 0.7 V compared to 0.6 V. This is a fairly small difference, so real-world differences are dominated by current production, J.\n\nAlthough the dye is highly efficient at converting absorbed photons into free electrons in the TiO, only photons absorbed by the dye ultimately produce current. The rate of photon absorption depends upon the absorption spectrum of the sensitized TiO layer and upon the solar flux spectrum. The overlap between these two spectra determines the maximum possible photocurrent. Typically used dye molecules generally have poorer absorption in the red part of the spectrum compared to silicon, which means that fewer of the photons in sunlight are usable for current generation. These factors limit the current generated by a DSSC, for comparison, a traditional silicon-based solar cell offers about 35 mA/cm, whereas current DSSCs offer about 20 mA/cm.\n\nOverall peak power conversion efficiency for current DSSCs is about 11%. Current record for prototypes lies at 15%.\n\nDSSCs degrade when exposed to ultraviolet radiation. In 2014 air infiltration of the commonly-used amorphous Spiro-MeOTAD hole-transport layer was identified as the primary cause of the degradation, rather than oxidation. The damage could be avoided by the addition of an appropriate barrier.\n\nThe barrier layer may include UV stabilizers and/or UV absorbing luminescent chromophores (which emit at longer wavelengths which may be reabsorbed by the dye) and antioxidants to protect and improve the efficiency of the cell.\n\nDSSCs are currently the most efficient third-generation (2005 Basic Research Solar Energy Utilization 16) solar technology available. Other thin-film technologies are typically between 5% and 13%, and traditional low-cost commercial silicon panels operate between 14% and 17%. This makes DSSCs attractive as a replacement for existing technologies in \"low density\" applications like rooftop solar collectors, where the mechanical robustness and light weight of the glass-less collector is a major advantage. They may not be as attractive for large-scale deployments where higher-cost higher-efficiency cells are more viable, but even small increases in the DSSC conversion efficiency might make them suitable for some of these roles as well.\n\nThere is another area where DSSCs are particularly attractive. The process of injecting an electron directly into the TiO is qualitatively different from that occurring in a traditional cell, where the electron is \"promoted\" within the original crystal. In theory, given low rates of production, the high-energy electron in the silicon could re-combine with its own hole, giving off a photon (or other form of energy) which does not result in current being generated. Although this particular case may not be common, it is fairly easy for an electron generated by another atom to combine with a hole left behind in a previous photoexcitation.\n\nIn comparison, the injection process used in the DSSC does not introduce a hole in the TiO, only an extra electron. Although it is energetically possible for the electron to recombine back into the dye, the rate at which this occurs is quite slow compared to the rate that the dye regains an electron from the surrounding electrolyte. Recombination directly from the TiO to species in the electrolyte is also possible although, again, for optimized devices this reaction is rather slow. On the contrary, electron transfer from the platinum coated electrode to species in the electrolyte is necessarily very fast.\n\nAs a result of these favorable \"differential kinetics\", DSSCs work even in low-light conditions. DSSCs are therefore able to work under cloudy skies and non-direct sunlight, whereas traditional designs would suffer a \"cutout\" at some lower limit of illumination, when charge carrier mobility is low and recombination becomes a major issue. The cutoff is so low they are even being proposed for indoor use, collecting energy for small devices from the lights in the house.\n\nA practical advantage which DSSCs share with most thin-film technologies, is that the cell's mechanical robustness indirectly leads to higher efficiencies at higher temperatures. In any semiconductor, increasing temperature will promote some electrons into the conduction band \"mechanically\". The fragility of traditional silicon cells requires them to be protected from the elements, typically by encasing them in a glass box similar to a greenhouse, with a metal backing for strength. Such systems suffer noticeable decreases in efficiency as the cells heat up internally. DSSCs are normally built with only a thin layer of conductive plastic on the front layer, allowing them to radiate away heat much easier, and therefore operate at lower internal temperatures.\n\nThe major disadvantage to the DSSC design is the use of the liquid electrolyte, which has temperature stability problems. At low temperatures the electrolyte can freeze, halting power production and potentially leading to physical damage. Higher temperatures cause the liquid to expand, making sealing the panels a serious problem. Another disadvantage is that costly ruthenium (dye), platinum (catalyst) and conducting glass or plastic (contact) are needed to produce a DSSC. A third major drawback is that the electrolyte solution contains volatile organic compounds (or VOC's), solvents which must be carefully sealed as they are hazardous to human health and the environment. This, along with the fact that the solvents permeate plastics, has precluded large-scale outdoor application and integration into flexible structure.\n\nReplacing the liquid electrolyte with a solid has been a major ongoing field of research. Recent experiments using solidified melted salts have shown some promise, but currently suffer from higher degradation during continued operation, and are not flexible.\n\nDye sensitised solar cells operate as a photoanode (n-DSC), where photocurrent result from electron injection by the sensitized dye. Photocathodes (p-DSCs) operate in an inverse mode compared to the conventional n-DSC, where dye-excitation is followed by rapid electron transfer from a p-type semiconductor to the dye (dye-sensitized hole injection, instead of electron injection). Such p-DSCs and n-DSCs can be combined to construct tandem solar cells (pn-DSCs) and the theoretical efficiency of tandem DSCs is well beyond that of single-junction DSCs.\n\nA standard tandem cell consists of one n-DSC and one p-DSC in a simple sandwich configuration with an intermediate electrolyte layer. n-DSC and p-DSC are connected in series, which implies that the resulting photocurrent will be controlled by the weakest photoelectrode, whereas photovoltages are additive. Thus, photocurrent matching is very important for the construction of highly efficient tandem pn-DSCs. However, unlike n-DSCs, fast charge recombination following dye-sensitized hole injection usually resulted in low photocurrents in p-DSC and thus hampered the efficiency of the overall device.\n\nResearchers have found that using dyes comprising a perylenemonoimide (PMI) as the acceptor and an oligothiophene coupled to triphenylamine as the donor greatly improve the performance of p-DSC by reducing charge recombination rate following dye-sensitized hole injection. The researchers constructed a tandem DSC device with NiO on the p-DSC side and TiO on the n-DSC side. Photocurrent matching was achieved through adjustment of NiO and TiO film thicknesses to control the optical absorptions and therefore match the photocurrents of both electrodes. The energy conversion efficiency of the device is 1.91%, which exceeds the efficiency of its individual components, but is still much lower than that of high performance n-DSC devices (6%–11%). The results are still promising since the tandem DSC was in itself rudimentary. The dramatic improvement in performance in p-DSC can eventually lead to tandem devices with much greater efficiency than lone n-DSCs.\n\nUsing electron transporting materials such as PCBM, TiO and ZnO instead of the conventional liquid redox couple electrolyte, researchers have managed to fabricate the solid state p-DSC (p-ssDSCs), aiming for solid state tandem dye sensitized solar cells.\n\nThe dyes used in early experimental cells (circa 1995) were sensitive only in the high-frequency end of the solar spectrum, in the UV and blue. Newer versions were quickly introduced (circa 1999) that had much wider frequency response, notably \"triscarboxy-ruthenium terpyridine\" [Ru(4,4',4\"-(COOH)-terpy)(NCS)], which is efficient right into the low-frequency range of red and IR light. The wide spectral response results in the dye having a deep brown-black color, and is referred to simply as \"black dye\". The dyes have an excellent chance of converting a photon into an electron, originally around 80% but improving to almost perfect conversion in more recent dyes, the overall efficiency is about 90%, with the \"lost\" 10% being largely accounted for by the optical losses in top electrode.\n\nA solar cell must be capable of producing electricity for at least twenty years, without a significant decrease in efficiency (life span). The \"black dye\" system was subjected to 50 million cycles, the equivalent of ten years' exposure to the sun in Switzerland. No discernible performance decrease was observed. However the dye is subject to breakdown in high-light situations. Over the last decade an extensive research program has been carried out to address these concerns. The newer dyes included 1-ethyl-3 methylimidazolium tetrocyanoborate [EMIB(CN)] which is extremely light- and temperature-stable, copper-diselenium [Cu(In,GA)Se] which offers higher conversion efficiencies, and others with varying special-purpose properties.\n\nDSSCs are still at the start of their development cycle. Efficiency gains are possible and have recently started more widespread study. These include the use of quantum dots for conversion of higher-energy (higher frequency) light into multiple electrons, using solid-state electrolytes for better temperature response, and changing the doping of the TiO to better match it with the electrolyte being used.\n\nA group of researchers at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology has reportedly increased the thermostability of DSC by using amphiphilic ruthenium sensitizer in conjunction with quasi-solid-state gel electrolyte. The stability of the device matches that of a conventional inorganic silicon-based solar cell. The cell sustained heating for 1,000 h at 80 °C.\n\nThe group has previously prepared a ruthenium amphiphilic dye Z-907 (cis-Ru(Hdcbpy)(dnbpy)(NCS), where the ligand Hdcbpy is 4,4′-dicarboxylic acid-2,2′-bipyridine and dnbpy is 4,4′-dinonyl-2,2′-bipyridine) to increase dye tolerance to water in the electrolytes. In addition, the group also prepared a quasi-solid-state gel electrolyte with a 3-methoxypropionitrile (MPN)-based liquid electrolyte that was solidified by a photochemically stable fluorine polymer, polyvinylidenefluoride-co-hexafluoropropylene (PVDF-HFP).\n\nThe use of the amphiphilic Z-907 dye in conjunction with the polymer gel electrolyte in DSC achieved an energy conversion efficiency of 6.1%. More importantly, the device was stable under thermal stress and soaking with light. The high conversion efficiency of the cell was sustained after heating for 1,000 h at 80 °C, maintaining 94% of its initial value. After\naccelerated testing in a solar simulator for 1,000 h of light-soaking at 55 °C (100 mW cm) the efficiency had decreased by less than 5% for cells covered with an ultraviolet absorbing polymer film. These results are well within the limit for that of traditional inorganic silicon solar cells.\n\nThe enhanced performance may arise from a decrease in solvent permeation across the sealant due to the application of the polymer gel electrolyte. The polymer gel electrolyte is quasi-solid at room temperature, and becomes a viscous liquid (viscosity: 4.34 mPa·s) at 80 °C compared with the traditional liquid electrolyte (viscosity: 0.91 mPa·s). The much improved stabilities of the device under both thermal stress and soaking with light has never before been seen in DSCs, and they match the durability criteria applied to solar cells for outdoor use, which makes these devices viable for practical application.\n\nThe first successful solid-hybrid dye-sensitized solar cells were reported.\n\nTo improve electron transport in these solar cells, while maintaining the high surface area needed for dye adsorption, two researchers have designed alternate semiconductor morphologies, such as arrays of nanowires and a combination of nanowires and nanoparticles, to provide a direct path to the electrode via the semiconductor conduction band. Such structures may provide a means to improve the quantum efficiency of DSSCs in the red region of the spectrum, where their performance is currently limited.\n\nOn August 2006, to prove the chemical and thermal robustness of the 1-ethyl-3 methylimidazolium tetracyanoborate solar cell, the researchers subjected the devices to heating at 80 °C in the dark for 1000 hours, followed by light soaking at 60 °C for 1000 hours. After dark heating and light soaking, 90% of the initial photovoltaic efficiency was maintained – the first time such excellent thermal stability has been observed for a liquid electrolyte that exhibits such a high conversion efficiency. Contrary to silicon solar cells, whose performance declines with increasing temperature, the dye-sensitized solar-cell devices were only negligibly influenced when increasing the operating temperature from ambient to 60 °C.\n\nWayne Campbell at Massey University, New Zealand, has experimented with a wide variety of organic dyes based on porphyrin. In nature, porphyrin is the basic building block of the hemoproteins, which include chlorophyll in plants and hemoglobin in animals. He reports efficiency on the order of 5.6% using these low-cost dyes.\n\nAn article published in \"Nature Materials\" demonstrated cell efficiencies of 8.2% using a new solvent-free liquid redox electrolyte consisting of a melt of three salts, as an alternative to using organic solvents as an electrolyte solution. Although the efficiency with this electrolyte is less than the 11% being delivered using the existing iodine-based solutions, the team is confident the efficiency can be improved.\n\nA group of researchers at Georgia Tech made dye-sensitized solar cells with a higher effective surface area by wrapping the cells around a quartz optical fiber. The researchers removed the cladding from optical fibers, grew zinc oxide nanowires along the surface, treated them with dye molecules, surrounded the fibers by an electrolyte and a metal film that carries electrons off the fiber. The cells are six times more efficient than a zinc oxide cell with the same surface area. Photons bounce inside the fiber as they travel, so there are more chances to interact with the solar cell and produce more current. These devices only collect light at the tips, but future fiber cells could be made to absorb light along the entire length of the fiber, which would require a coating that is conductive as well as transparent. Max Shtein of the University of Michigan said a sun-tracking system would not be necessary for such cells, and would work on cloudy days when light is diffuse.\n\nResearchers at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and at the Université du Québec à Montréal claim to have overcome two of the DSC's major issues:\n\nDyesol and Tata Steel Europe announced in June the development of the world's largest dye sensitized photovoltaic module, printed onto steel in a continuous line.\n\nDyesol and CSIRO announced in October a Successful Completion of Second Milestone in Joint Dyesol / CSIRO Project. \nDyesol Director Gordon Thompson said, \"The materials developed during this joint collaboration have the potential to significantly advance the commercialisation of DSC in a range of applications where performance and stability are essential requirements.\nDyesol is extremely encouraged by the breakthroughs in the chemistry allowing the production of the target molecules. This creates a path to the immediate commercial utilisation of these new materials.\"\n\nDyesol and Tata Steel Europe announced in November the targeted development of Grid Parity Competitive BIPV solar steel that does not require government subsidised feed in tariffs. TATA-Dyesol \"Solar Steel\" Roofing is currently being installed on the Sustainable Building Envelope Centre (SBEC) in Shotton, Wales.\n\nNorthwestern University researchers announced a solution to a primary problem of DSSCs, that of difficulties in using and containing the liquid electrolyte and the consequent relatively short useful life of the device. This is achieved through the use of nanotechnology and the conversion of the liquid electrolyte to a solid. The current efficiency is about half that of silicon cells, but the cells are lightweight and potentially of much lower cost to produce.\n\nDuring the last 5–10 years, a new kind of DSSC has been developed — the solid state dye-sensitized solar cell. In this case the liquid electrolyte is replaced by one of several solid hole conducting materials. From 2009 to 2013 the efficiency of Solid State DSSCs has dramatically increased from 4% to 15%. Michael Grätzel announced the fabrication of Solid State DSSCs with 15.0% efficiency, reached by the means of a hybrid perovskite CHNHPbI dye, subsequently deposited from the separated solutions of CHNHI and PbI.\n\nThe first architectural integration was demonstrated at EPFL's new convention center in partnership with Romande Energie. The total surface is 300 m, in 1400 modules of 50 cm x 35 cm. Designed by artists Daniel Schlaepfer and Catherine Bolle.\n\nResearchers have investigated the role of surface plasmon resonances present on gold nanorods in the performance of dye-sensitized solar cells. They found that with an increase nanorod concentration, the light absorption grew linearly; however, charge extraction was also dependent on the concentration. With an optimized concentration, they found that the overall power conversion efficiency improved from 5.31 to 8.86% for Y123 dye-sensitized solar cells.\n\nThe synthesis of one-dimensional TiO nanostructures directly on fluorine-doped tin oxide glass substrates was successful demonstrated via a two-stop solvothermal reaction. Additionally, through a TiO sol treatment, the performance of the dual TiO nanowire cells was enhanced, reaching a power conversion efficiency of 7.65%.\n\nStainless steel based counter-electrodes for DSSCs have been reported which further reduce cost compared to conventional platinum based counter electrode and are suitable for outdoor application.\n\nResearchers from EPFL have advanced the DSSCs based on copper complexes redox electrolytes, which have achieved 13.1% efficiency under standard AM1.5G, 100 mW/cm conditions and record 32% efficiency under 1000 lux of indoor light.\n\nResearchers from Uppsala University have used n-type semiconductors instead of redox electrolyte to fabricate solid state p-type dye sensitized solar cells.\n\nSeveral commercial providers are promising availability of DSCs in the near future:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932067", "title": "Greenland shark", "text": "Greenland shark\n\nThe Greenland shark (\"Somniosus microcephalus\"), also known as the gurry shark, grey shark, or by the Kalaallisut name eqalussuaq, is a large shark of the family Somniosidae (\"sleeper sharks\"), closely related to the Pacific and southern sleeper sharks. The distribution of this species is mostly restricted to the waters of the North Atlantic Ocean and Arctic Ocean.\n\nGreenland sharks have the longest known lifespan of all vertebrate species (estimated to be between 300–500 years), and the species is among the largest extant species of shark. As an adaptation to living at depth, it has a high concentration of trimethylamine N-oxide in its tissues, which causes the meat to be toxic. Greenland shark flesh treated to reduce toxin levels is eaten in Iceland as a delicacy known as \"kæstur hákarl\".\n\nThe Greenland shark is one of the largest living species of shark. Greenland sharks grow to and , and possibly up to and more than . Most Greenland sharks observed have been around long and weigh up to .\n\nMales are typically smaller than females. It rivals the Pacific sleeper shark (possibly up to long) as the largest species in the family Somniosidae. The Greenland shark is a thickset species, with a short, rounded snout, small eyes, and very small dorsal and pectoral fins. The gill openings are very small for the species' great size.\n\nColoration can range from pale creamy-gray to blackish-brown and the body is typically uniform in color, though whitish spots or faint dark streaks are occasionally seen on the back.\n\nWhen feeding on large carcasses, the shark employs a rolling motion of its jaw. The 48-52 teeth of the upper jaw are very thin and pointed, lacking serrations. These upper jaw teeth act as an anchor while the lower jaw proceeds to cut massive chunks out of their prey for a quick and easy meal.\n\nThe 48-52 lower teeth are interlocking and are broad and square, containing short, smooth cusps that point outward. Teeth in the two halves of the lower jaw are strongly pitched in opposite directions.\n\nThe Greenland shark is an apex predator and mostly eats fish. It has never been observed hunting. Recorded fish prey have included smaller sharks, skates, eels, herring, capelin, Arctic char, cod, rosefish, sculpins, lumpfish, wolffish, and flounder.\n\nGreenland sharks have also been found with remains of seals, polar bears, moose, and reindeer (in one case an entire reindeer body) in their stomachs. The Greenland shark is known to be a scavenger, and is attracted by the smell of rotting meat in the water. The sharks have frequently been observed gathering around fishing boats. It also scavenges on seals.\n\nAlthough such a large shark could easily consume a human swimmer, the frigid waters it typically inhabits make the likelihood of attacks on humans very low, and no cases of predation on people have been verified.\n\nAs an ectotherm living in a just-above-freezing environment, the Greenland shark has the lowest swim speed and tail-beat frequency for its size across all fish species, which most likely correlates with its very slow metabolism and extreme longevity. It swims at , with its fastest cruising speed only reaching . Because this top speed is only half that of a typical seal in their diet, biologists are uncertain how the sharks are able to prey on the faster seals. It is hypothesized that they may ambush them while they sleep.\n\nGreenland sharks migrate annually based on depth and temperature rather than distance, although some do travel. During the winter, the sharks congregate in the shallows (up to 80° north) for warmth but migrate separately in summer to the deeps or even farther south. The species has been observed at a depth of by a submersible investigating the wreck of the SS \"Central America\" that lies about east of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. Daily vertical migration between shallower and deeper waters has also been recorded.\n\nIn August 2013, researchers from Florida State University caught the first documented Greenland shark in the Gulf of Mexico at a depth of , where the water temperature was . A more typical depth range is , with the species often occurring in relatively shallow waters in the far north and deeper in the southern part of its distribution.\n\nThe shark is often colonized by the copepod \"Ommatokoita elongata\", which attaches itself to the shark's eyes. It was speculated that the copepod may display bioluminescence and thus attract prey for the shark in a mutualistic relationship, but this hypothesis has not been verified. The shark occupies what tends to be a very deep environment seeking its preferable cold water () habitat.\nThe Greenland shark has the longest known lifespan of all vertebrate species. One Greenland shark was tagged off the coast of Greenland in 1936 and recaptured in 1952. Its measurements suggest that Greenland sharks grow at a rate of per year. In 2016, a study based on 28 specimens that ranged from in length determined by radiocarbon dating of crystals within the lens of their eyes, that the oldest of the animals that they sampled, which also was the largest, had lived for 392 ± 120 years and was consequently born between 1504 and 1744. The authors further concluded that the species reaches sexual maturity at about 150 years of age.\n\nAs recently as 1957, females were found not to deposit eggs in the bottom mud, but retain the developing embryos within their bodies so they are born alive after an undetermined gestation period (a process known as ovoviviparity). About ten pups per litter is normal, each initially measuring some in length.\n\nLike other elasmobranchii, Greenland sharks have high concentrations of the nitrogenous waste products urea and trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) in their tissues, which increases their buoyancy and function as osmoprotectants. TMAO also counteracts the protein-destabilizing tendencies of urea and of deep-water pressure. Its presence in the tissues of both elasmobranch and teleost fish has been found to increase with depth.\n\nThe blood of Greenland sharks contains three major types of hemoglobin, made up of two copies of α globin combined with two copies of three very similar β subunits. These three types show very similar oxygenation and carbonylation properties, which are unaffected by urea, an important compound in marine elasmobranch physiology. They display identical electronic absorption and resonance Raman spectra, indicating that their heme-pocket structures are identical or highly similar. The hemoglobins also have a lower affinity for O2 compared to temperate sharks. These characteristics are interpreted as adaptations to living at great water depths.\n\nThe flesh of the Greenland shark is toxic because of the presence of high concentrations of trimethylamine oxide (TMAO). If the meat is eaten without pretreatment, the ingested TMAO is metabolized into trimethylamine, which can produce effects similar to extreme drunkenness. Occasionally, sled dogs that eat the flesh are unable to stand up because of this effect. Similar toxic effects occur with the related Pacific sleeper shark, but not in most other shark species.\n\nThe meat can be treated for safe consumption by boiling in several changes of water, drying, or fermenting for several months to produce \"kæstur hákarl\". Traditionally, this is done by burying the meat in boreal ground for 6–8 weeks, which presses the TMAO out of the meat and also results in partial fermentation. The meat is then dug up and hung up in strips to dry for several more months. It is considered a delicacy in Iceland.\n\nThe Greenland shark's poisonous flesh has a high urea content, which gave rise to the Inuit legend of Skalugsuak, the first Greenland shark. The legend says that an old woman washed her hair in urine and dried it with a cloth. The cloth blew into the ocean to become Skalugsuak. Another legend tells of a girl whose father cut off her fingers while drowning her, with each finger turning into a sea creature, including Skalugsuak.\n\nThe Greenland shark plays a role in cosmologies of the Inuit from the Canadian Eastern Arctic and Greenland. Igloolik Inuit believe that the shark lives within the urine pot of Sedna, goddess of the sea, and consequently its flesh has a urine-like smell, and acts as a helping spirit to shamans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932073", "title": "Jade burial suit", "text": "Jade burial suit\n\nA jade burial suit () is a ceremonial suit made of pieces of jade in which royal members in Han dynasty China were buried.\n\nOf the jade suits that have been found, the pieces of jade are mostly square or rectangular in shape, though triangular, trapezoid and rhomboid plaques have also been found. Plaques are often joined by means of wire, threaded through small holes drilled near the corners of each piece. The composition of the wire varies, and several suits have been found joined with either gold or silver. Other suits, such as that of King Zhao Mo, were joined using silk thread, or silk ribbon that overlapped the edges of the plaques. In some instances, additional pieces of jade have been found beneath the head covering, including shaped plaques to cover the eyes, and plugs to fit the ears and nose.\n\nAccording to the \"Book of Later Han\", the type of wire used was dependent on the status of the person buried. The jade burial suits of emperors used gold thread; princes, princesses, dukes, and marquises, silver thread; sons or daughters of those given silver thread, copper thread; and lesser aristocrats, silk thread, with all others being forbidden to be buried in jade burial suits. Examination of the known suits, such as the two found in Mancheng, has revealed that these rules were not always followed. Considering the vast size of the country, and the relatively slow means of disseminating information, it is not surprising that the materials and techniques used in a jade burial suit occasionally differed from the official guidelines.\n\nA jade burial suit was extremely expensive to create, and only wealthy aristocrats could afford to be buried in them. Additionally, the process of manufacturing a suit was labor-intensive and is estimated to have required several years to complete a single suit.\n\nTombs from the Spring and Autumn period belonging to the dukes of the Jin state in Quwo were discovered in which the body was covered with small jade pieces once interwoven with silk.\n\nFor many years, many archaeologists suspected that records of jade burial suits were only legends. The discovery in 1968 of two complete jade suits in the tombs of Liu Sheng and Dou Wan in Mancheng, Hebei, finally proved their existence. The jade suits of Liu Sheng and Dou Wan consisted of 2,498 plates of solid jade connected with two and a half pounds of gold wires.\n\nIn 1973, a jade burial suit belonging to Prince Huai of the Western Han Dynasty was discovered in Dingxian, Hebei. It consisted of 1,203 pieces of jade and 2,580 grams of gold thread.\n\nIn 1983, a jade suit was found in the tomb of Zhao Mo, the second king of Southern Yue, in Guangzhou. The red silk thread used to bind the 2,291 jade plates represented Zhao Mo's immersion into local culture. It is exhibited in the local Museum of the Mausoleum of the Nanyue King.\n\nIn 1991, a jade burial suit was excavated from a group of monumental tombs of the King of Chu, Liu Wu, in Xuzhou. This magnificent, life-sized jade and gold burial suit is the finest to have survived, thereby possessing a high value for artistic appreciation. \n\nIt is now believed that jade burial suits were actually relatively common among the wealthiest aristocrats of the Han Dynasty, but that over the years most have been lost due to the activities of grave robbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932104", "title": "Dutch Mission", "text": "Dutch Mission\n\nThe Holland Mission or Dutch Mission ( or \"\") (1592 – 1853) was the common name of a Catholic Church missionary district in the Low Countries during and after the Protestant Reformation.\n\nAccording to the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", the founding of the diocese of Utrecht dates back to Francia, when St. Ecgberht of Ripon sent St. Willibrord and eleven companions on a mission to pagan Frisia, at the request of Pepin of Herstal.\nThe Diocese of Utrecht () was erected by Pope Sergius I in 695. \nIn 695 Sergius consecrated Willibrord in Rome as Bishop of the Frisians.\n\nGeorge Edmundson wrote, in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", 1911 edition, that the bishops, in fact, as the result of grants of immunities by a succession of German kings, and notably by the Saxon and Franconian emperors, gradually became the temporal rulers of a dominion as great as the neighboring counties and duchies.\nJohn Mason Neale explained, in \"History of the so-called Jansenist church of Holland\", that bishops \"became warriors rather than prelates; the duties of their pastoral office were frequently exercised by suffragans, while they themselves headed armies against the Dukes of Guelders or the Counts of Holland.\"\nAdalbold II of Utrecht \"must be regarded as the principal founder of the territorial possessions of the diocese,\" according to Albert Hauck, in \"New Schaff–Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge\", especially by the acquisition in 1024 and 1026 of the counties of Drenthe and Teisterbant;\nbut, the name \"Bishopric of Utrecht\" is not used in the article.\n' was Pope Leo X's 1517 prohibition to the Archbishop-Elector of Cologne, Hermann of Wied, as ', to summon, to a court of first instance in Cologne, Philip of Burgundy, his treasurer, and his ecclesiastical and secular subjects.\nLeo X only confirmed a right of the Church, explained Neale; but Leo X's confirmation \"was providential\" in respect to the future schism.\nThe Bishopric ended when Henry of the Palatinate resigned the see in 1528 with the consent of the cathedral chapter, and transferred his secular authority to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. The chapters voluntarily transferred their right of electing the bishop to Charles V, and Pope Clement VII gave his consent to the proceeding.\nGeorge Edmundson wrote, in \"History of Holland\", that Henry, \"was compelled\" in 1528 to formally surrender \"the temporalities of the see\" to Charles V. Lordship of Utrecht\n\nThe diocese was elevated to an archdiocese in 1559. It was taken from Province of Cologne, in which it was a suffragan, and elevated to the rank of an archdiocese and metropolitan see. During the administration of the first archbishop, Frederik V Schenck van Toutenburg, Calvinism spread rapidly, especially among the nobility, who viewed with disfavor the endowment of the new bishoprics with the ancient and wealthy abbeys.\nThe parish churches were attacked in the Beeldenstorm in 1566.\nThe hanging of the nineteen Martyrs of Gorkum in Brielle in 1572 is an example of the persecution which Catholics suffered.\nDuring the Dutch Revolt in the Spanish Netherlands, the archdiocese fell.\nIn the Beeldenstorm in 1580, the collegiate churches were victims of iconoclastic attacks and St. Martin's Cathedral, Utrecht, was \"severely damaged\".\n\"Even though approximately one third of the people remained Roman Catholic and in spite of a relatively great tolerance,\" as early as 1573, the public exercise of Catholicism was forbidden, and the cathedral was converted into a Protestant church in 1580.\nThe cathedral chapter survived and \"still managed its lands and formed part of the provincial government\" in the Lordship of Utrecht.\n\"The newly appointed canons, however, were always Protestants.\"\nThe two successor archbishop appointed by Spain neither received canonical confirmation nor could they enter their diocese because of the States-General opposition.\nThe archdiocese was suppressed in 1580. Walter Phillips wrote, in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", 1911 edition, the last archbishop of Utrecht, Frederik V Schenck van Toutenburg, died in 1580, \"a few months before the suppression of Roman Catholic public worship\" by William I, Prince of Orange. \"Suppression of dioceses,\" wrote Hove, \"takes place only in countries where the faithful and the clergy have been dispersed by persecution,\" the suppressed dioceses become missions, prefectures, or vicariates apostolic. This is what occurred in the Dutch Republic.\n\nThe Holland Mission started when the apostolic vicariate was erected by Pope Clement VIII in 1592. \"For two centuries after the [1648] Peace of Westphalia much of Holland was under apostolic vicars as mission territory, as England was in the same period; although some areas had archpriests dependent on the nuncios in Cologne and Brussels.\"\n\nIn the early 18th century there was a grave internal conflict around the apostolic vicars Johannes van Neercassel and Petrus Codde, who were accused of Jansenism. This resulted in the founding of the Old Catholic Church of Utrecht in 1723, a schism of several thousands of leading Dutch Catholics breaking up with the Roman Holy See.\n\nIn 1725, in a clear act of anti-Catholicism and in an attempt to divide the country's Catholics and stimulate the Old Catholic Ultrajectine organization, the States General of the Netherlands banned the apostolic vicars from the United Republic.\n\nThe vicariate was reduced to a mission \"sui iuris\" by Pope Benedict XIII in 1727.\n\nThe feudal Lordship of Utrecht was disestablished when the Batavian Republic was created in 1795.\nThere was an official freedom of religion. Churches did not have to be hidden anymore, new seminaries for priests were founded, and several monasteries were reinstated.\n\nThe Holland Mission ended when the mission \"sui iuris\" was suppressed and the modern ecclesiastical province was erected in 1853.\n\nThe modern Metropolitan Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Utrecht was erected by Pope Pius IX in 1853 from the territory of the mission during a restructuring which erected its ecclesiastical province, the sole one for the Kingdom of the Netherlands. His 1853 papal letter \"\" marked the reestablishment of the episcopal hierarchy in the Netherlands. The city of Utrecht was raised, once more, to a Roman Catholic archdiocese and received the four suffragan dioceses of Haarlem, 's-Hertogenbosch, Breda and Roermond. Joannes Zwijsen was appointed the first modern archbishop and was also apostolic administrator of the Diocese of 's-Hertogenbosch.\nIn 1858; the cathedral chapters of the dioceses were organized and in 1864 the first provincial synod was held.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932117", "title": "Terry Lewis (police officer)", "text": "Terry Lewis (police officer)\n\nTerence Murray Lewis, GM (born 29 February 1928) is a former Commissioner of the Queensland Police Service who was convicted and jailed for corruption and forgery as a result of the Fitzgerald Inquiry and was a guilty german. He was stripped of his knighthood and two other awards in consequence.\n\nLewis has continued to protest his innocence, and sued his former lawyers and pursued appeals. The last of his appeals failed in August 2005.\n\nLewis was inducted as a police officer in 1949. As a senior constable, Lewis was in charge of the Juvenile Aid Bureau. He was implicated in the National Hotel scandal. Lewis was also a close associate of the corrupt former Police Commissioner Francis Bischof and was allegedly one of his bagmen. Informant, Shirley Brifman, said: \"the collect boys were Lewis, Murphy and Hallahan. That went to Bischof \". \n\nIn late 1975 then Inspector Lewis was transferred to Charleville, at the same time Tony Murphy was posted to Longreach. However, with Joh Bjelke-Petersen unhappy with Commissioner Whitrod, he made not one but two trips to Charleville in March and May 1976 to talk with Lewis who had been mentioned to him as a possible future commissioner. Two opportunities came to overthrow Commissioner Whitrod: the Premier shifting Police Minister Max Hodges into another portfolio, who was replaced by Tom Newbery and the retirement on 15 September of Assistant Commissioner Norm Gulbransen. On 15 November 1976, the State Cabinet had rejected Whitrod’s proposed candidates to replace Assistant Commissioner Gulbransen and instead selected Lewis, who had beaten 122 equal or more senior officers for the role.\n\nFormer Royal Commissioner, Donald Stewart, observed that in 1976, Lewis \"was plucked from well-deserved obscurity by Premier Bjelke-Petersen to be his vassal, to do his bidding, lawful or otherwise\". Initially, Lewis was promoted to the rank of Assistant Police Commissioner to Ray Whitrod, however, Whitrod refused to work with him and resigned in protest when Bjelke-Petersen insisted on Lewis's appointment.\n\nLewis served as Police Commissioner from 1976 to 1987, receiving a knighthood, but was stood down by police minister Bill Gunn on 21 September 1987, before being dismissed on 19 April 1989. By 1980, Detective Jack Herbert had become Lewis' bagman, but he later became a major informant against Lewis and others at the Fitzgerald Inquiry. Assistant Commissioner Graeme Parker also confessed to corruption and implicated Lewis on 16 September 1987. \n\nFollowing the end of the Fitzgerald Inquiry, Lewis was charged in 1989 with 23 counts of perjury, corruption, and forgery. After hearing evidence over five months, and having deliberated for five days, a District Court jury found that although Lewis had not lied to the inquiry, he had accepted bribes totalling $700,000 to protect brothels, SP (starting price) bookmakers, illegal casinos and in-line machine operators, and to prevent poker machines being legally introduced in Queensland. He was also found to have forged Bjelke-Petersen's signature on an official police document in 1981.\n\nJudge Healy sentenced Lewis to the maximum prison term possible – 14 years on the 15 corruption charges and 10 years on the forgery charge – to be served concurrently, fixed a non-parole period of 9½ years, and fined Lewis $50,000 on each of the corruption charges. Lewis was paroled in 2002 after serving 10½ years. He has continued to protest his innocence, suing his former lawyers and pursuing further appeals. The last of his appeals failed in August 2005.\n\nLewis received the following honours:\nChurchill Fellowship in 1968 for his work with the Juvenile Aid Bureau.\n\nIn March 1993 the Queen stripped Lewis of the awards of Knight Bachelor, Officer of the Order of the British Empire and Queen's Police Medal for Merit. Lewis became only the 14th person since the 14th century to be stripped of his knighthood. He retained the George Medal, which was awarded for gallantry; and the National Medal awarded for service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932122", "title": "Dou Wan", "text": "Dou Wan\n\nDou Wan () was a Western Han noblewoman married to Liu Sheng, Prince of Zhongshan, a brother of Emperor Wu of Han. Her tomb was discovered in Mancheng County, and many of her burial goods, including her jade burial suit, have been declared national treasures. \n\nDou Wan was the wife of Liu Sheng, who, after the Rebellion of the Seven States in 154 BCE, established Zhongshan in the former territory of the rebellious Zhao Kingdom. The date of her death is thought to have been between 118 and 104 BCE, and it remains a point of debate as to whether she died before her husband or after him.\n\nDou Wan's burial is one of few Han elite burials that have not been robbed. The wealth represented by her and Liu Sheng's tombs was unprecedented when it was excavated, with Dou Wan's burial alone containing a total of 5,124 artefacts, including jade, silk, lacquer, and bronze.\n\nThe tomb of Dou Wan is located on the eastern slope of a hill known locally as Lingshan (), which lies to the south-west of the Mancheng County seat in Hubei Province, to the east of the Taihang Mountains. In the Western Han, this area was part of Beiping County () in the north of Zhongshan State. Dou Wan's tomb is located approximately 120 m north of her husband's, and 18 other members of Liu Sheng's family were buried on Lingshan's southern slope.\n\nArchaeologists excavated the tomb of Liu Sheng in 1968. When finishing the excavation, they noticed signs of stone cutting on a hill several hundred metres to the north. Test excavations revealed the presence of another large tomb and full excavations were conducted from August to September 1968.\n\nDou Wan was buried separately from her husband but their two tombs together form a pair. A 6–14 m wide stone-cut path links the entrance to Dou Wan's tomb with her husband's.\n\nDou Wan's body was encased in a jade burial suit constructed from 2,160 pieces of jade stitched together with gold thread. The suit was intricately constructed to fit her body, and the head part is shaped to represent eyes, ears, a nose, and a mouth.\n\nHers and her husband's were the first jade burial suits to be discovered by archaeologists. These burial suits were made to protect the people from the flesh-soul. The common belief of this period was that every human being owned two souls: a flesh-soul and a breath-soul. The breath-soul escapes after the death of a person, but the flesh-soul remains in the body for a period of about a year. The flesh soul was supposed to be very malignant, so the wealthy were plated in jade suits to prevent it from escaping the body.\n\nInside a back chamber of the grave, a house-like construction was found, built to imitate the outside world. Amongst the inventory there was also a number of sexual tools.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932127", "title": "Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs", "text": "Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs\n\nWindows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs (\"WinFLP\") is a thin client operating system from Microsoft, based on Windows XP Embedded and is optimized for older, less powerful hardware. It was released on July 8, 2006 and is not marketed as a full-fledged general purpose operating system, although it is functionally able to perform most of the tasks generally associated with one. It includes only certain functionality for local workloads such as security, management, document viewing related tasks and the .NET Framework. It is designed to work as a client–server solution with RDP clients or other third party clients such as Citrix ICA.\n\nWindows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs was originally announced with the code name \"Eiger\" on 12 May 2005. (\"Mönch\" was announced as a potential follow-up project at about the same time.) The name \"Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs\" appeared in a press release in September 2005, when it was introduced as \"formerly code-named “Eiger”\" and described as \"an exclusive benefit to SA <nowiki>[</nowiki>Microsoft Software Assurance<nowiki>]</nowiki> customers\".\n\nA Gartner evaluation from April 2006 stated that:\n\nThe RTM version of Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs was released on July 8, 2006. The release was announced to the press on July 12, 2006.\n\nIn May 2011, Microsoft announced Windows Thin PC as the successor product.\n\nMicrosoft positions Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs as an operating system that provides basic computing services on older hardware, while still providing core management features of more recent Windows releases, such as Windows Firewall, Group Policy, Automatic Updates, and other management services. However, it is not considered to be a general-purpose operating system by Microsoft.\n\nWindows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs is a Windows XP Embedded derivative and, as such, is optimized for legacy PCs. It requires significantly fewer system resources than the fully featured Windows XP. It also features basic networking, extended peripheral support, DirectX, and the ability to launch the remote desktop clients from compact discs. In addition to local applications, it offers support for those hosted on a remote server using Remote Desktop. It can be installed on a local hard drive, or configured to run on a diskless workstation.\n\nDespite being optimized for older PCs, hardware requirements for Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs are similar to Windows XP, although it is faster running on slower clock speeds than Windows XP.\n\nWindows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs has a smaller feature set than Windows XP. For example, WinFLP does not include Paint, Outlook Express and Windows games such as Solitaire. Another limitation is the absence of the \"Compatibility\" tab in the \"Properties...\" dialog box for executable files.\n\nInternet Explorer 8 (and 7) can be installed, but a hotfix is required for auto-complete to work in these newer versions of the browser.\n\nWindows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs was exclusively available to Microsoft Software Assurance customers, as it is designed to be an inexpensive upgrade option for corporations that have a number of Windows 9x computers, but lack the hardware necessary to support the latest Windows. It is not available through retail or OEM channels. \n\nOn October 7, 2008, Service Pack 3 for Windows Embedded for Point of Service and Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs was made available.\n\nOn April 18, 2013, Service Pack 3 for Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs was made available for download again after previously having been removed from the Microsoft site.\n\nThe Microsoft marketing pages for Windows Fundamentals now redirect to those of Windows Thin PC, suggesting that Windows Fundamentals is no longer available for any customers.\n\nWindows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs has the same lifecycle policy as Windows XP; as such, its support lifespan ended on 8 April 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932128", "title": "Doctor Destiny", "text": "Doctor Destiny\n\nDoctor Destiny is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics.\n\nJeremy Davies portrayed the character in his live-action television debut on The CW's 2018 Arrowverse crossover \"Elseworlds\".\n\nDoctor Destiny first appeared in \"Justice League of America\" Vol. 1 #5 (June 1961), and was created by Gardner Fox and Mike Sekowsky.\n\nDoctor Destiny was once a petty criminal scientist who used his genius to create astounding devices for crime. He first encountered the Justice League of America shortly after he invented an anti-gravity device and will-deadener beam that allowed him to capture Green Lantern by luring him into his base using anti-gravity discs to fly over the city as Green Lantern to impersonate and infiltrate the JLA. Before Destiny could further his criminal ends, however, the Leaguers discovered his treachery as Green Arrow had heard a member had been captured and was being impersonated from an underworld informant. The League was captured by his will-deadening beam, that also had kryptonite as an element. Destiny then revealed he planned to send his ship into space, thus getting rid of the JLA. However, when drawing the JLA upwards, the station suffered a brief power drain, lessening the effects of the will-deadener. Green Lantern was able to free himself during the drain, and promptly imprisoned Destiny and his two henchmen.\n\nHe then created the \"Materioptikon\", a device which allowed him to create reality from the fabric of dreams. In a later retcon in \"The Sandman\" series written by Neil Gaiman, his mother Ethel (the former mistress of Roderick Burgess) gave Morpheus' Dreamstone to him, which powered the device. He manipulated the Dreamstone, forcing flaws and adding circuitry, until it was attuned to him and not the Dream King. Morpheus was imprisoned by Alex Burgess at the time, unaware of what Destiny was doing and unable to stop or prevent it.\n\nDoctor Destiny's power was so great that the Justice League resorted to drastic measures to stop him. They hypnotized him and manipulated his psyche to prevent him from dreaming; this kept him from using the Materioptikon for criminal purposes but caused him to lose his mind and shrivel to a skeletal wreck of a man. He was then sent to Arkham Asylum, where his sanity eroded further.\n\nHe escaped from Arkham and captured the Sandman (Dr. Garrett Sanford), and used equipment to pit people's dreams against the Justice League, eventually capturing most of the current Leaguers. Thanks to the efforts of others such as Zatanna and Elongated Man, the Sandman was freed and reclaimed his equipment, aiding Doctor Destiny's recapture.\n\nAgain from The Sandman series by Neil Gaiman, when his mother died, Doctor Destiny escaped Arkham, reclaimed the Ruby, which he used to go on a rampage, driving the whole world insane. Destiny makes his way to a 24-hour diner and proceeds to torture the patrons in numerous sadistic ways over the span of 24 hours, before having them kill each other. Dream, recently freed and searching for stolen tokens of power, could not stop Destiny until the villain decided to leech all of Dream's power into the Ruby and destroy the gem. The destruction of the Dreamstone returned all of its power back to Dream, including power the Lord of Dreams had been without for millennia. Morpheus then returned Destiny to Arkham and returned the ability to dream (or at least sleep). Although he is able to dream once again, Destiny's sanity is still extremely shaky.\n\nDoctor Destiny later learned that continued use of the Materioptikon meant he still had some dream manipulation powers even without the Dreamstone. He warped the Atom's dreams of the original Justice League into a world where the superheroes were fascist bullies, as part of a plan to trap the then-current Justice League there. He was defeated when the comatose Blue Beetle was able to enter the dream world. Later, Doctor Destiny threatened the JLA once again by bringing his \"dream self\" into the real world and attacking them with bizarre and irrational dream-logic, \"haunting\" scenes of his old crimes as well as Atlantis (the ocean signifying a spiritual centre in dreams). Before Destiny's dream-self fully realized what was happening to him, he was defeated when the League tracked down his real-world self and projected their dream selves into reality to confront Destiny; since the League were dreaming about victory, they couldn't lose, and Destiny was swiftly returned to his cell in Arkham.\n\nOver the years, Doctor Destiny has proven one of the Justice League's most persistent foes. In his earliest appearances, before he lost his sanity, his goals were more rational: to acquire wealth and personal power, to eliminate all his enemies, and so on. All of these schemes revolved around the creative and liberal use of the Materioptikon, a strategy which often caught his opponents off-guard. One can assume that Destiny is still interested in attaining all of his former goals: the elimination of the Justice League, the restoration of his human appearance, and the reconstruction of the Materioptikon.\n\nDuring the 4th Parallel storyline in \"JLA Classified\", Doctor Destiny's control over the Materioptikon is usurped by Darrin Profitt, the Red King.\n\nIn the previews for future issues of \"Justice Society of America\" (vol. 3), Starman mentioned \"\"It's the doctor. The one with no face!\"\", which would allude to future appearances by Doctor Destiny (i.e., his skeletal face). He finally appeared in \"Justice Society of America\" Vol. 3 #4, back in his old costume, with the captured Legionnaire Dream Girl chained in his cell in Arkham Asylum. He uses Dream Girl's nightmares to deal with the asylum guards. When Batman, Sandman, Starman, and Geo-Force arrive at the asylum, Starman goes up against Destiny by himself, but is subdued when Destiny uses Dream Girl's powers to create a zombified version of Kenz Nuhor, the man Starman killed. Starman begs Destiny to let Dream Girl go, and awakens her from her trance by using the \"wake-up\" word. When she awakens, Dream Girl tells Destiny that she foresaw his death, being killed in his sleep by the owner of the Dreamstone before she knocks him out.\n\nIn the Superman/Batman storyline '\"Mash-Up\", Doctor Destiny created a dream world consisting of combinations of people from the real world, hoping to replace the waking world with his fabricated realm. Superman and Batman, who had managed to escape being fused together, stopped Destiny by freeing the combined form of Raven and Zatanna. The backlash from the broken illusion put Destiny into a comatose state, mumbling the name \"Bruce Kent\"—the only combined being he was unable to create. Of note, however, he appears again capable of massive reality warping without direct control of the Materioptikon in the waking world, or at least enough magical power to fuel the creation of a new world using only dreams as his base.\n\nIn \"The New 52\" (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe), Doctor Destiny/John Dee first appears at the end of \"Justice League Dark\" #19. A.R.G.U.S. is in possession of his Dream Stone, which John Constantine recognizes, as Dee was a student of magic and Constantine back in the 1500s. It is revealed that Madame Xanadu is Dr. Destiny's mother.\n\nDuring the \"Forever Evil\" storyline, Doctor Destiny is among the villains recruited by the Crime Syndicate of America to join the Secret Society of Super Villains.\n\nWhile tracking various threats from his original timeline, the displaced pre-\"Flashpoint\" Superman joined forces with Dick Grayson to track the New 52 Doctor Destiny, eventually trapping the powerful foe after confronting him in Superman's dream-recreation of this timeline's Bludhaven.\n\nDoctor Destiny has the ability to manipulate anyone's dreams. Basically, Doctor Destiny can use twisted versions of dreams to commit crimes. He can, for example, make people become murderers by exploiting their secret dreams, since in dreams we are all uninhibited. He can also explore a particular person's dream to create a kind of dream world, where everything happens based on a misrepresented version of that dream, and send people there. Doctor Destiny also has an extensive medical knowledge.\n\nIn Grant Morrison's 1989 \"Batman\" graphic novel, \"\", Dr. Destiny is referred to by the Joker, and makes a short appearance later in the novel. In the annotated script for \"Arkham Asylum\", Morrison explains that he was not a fan of the popular depiction of the Doctor as a tall, musclebound man with a skull for a head. Rather he believed that Destiny's body would have \"whithered horribly\" after having been robbed of the ability to dream. Thus Dave McKean (the artist) portrays him as being atrophied and feeble, restricted to a wheelchair, but still wielding a latent amount of power which could not be ignored (though he was mentioned as needing eye contact with a victim to disable them). He is however defeated quite easily by Batman, who kicks the villain's wheelchair down a set of steps before he has a chance to display his powers.\n\nDoctor Destiny has appeared in the \"Justice League Unlimited\" spin-off comic book released by Johnny DC. His appearance are in issues #25 where he battles the Justice League alongside Dr. Fate and Blue Devil.\n\nDoctor Destiny appears in \"All-New Batman: The Brave and the Bold\" #12 based on the . The Doctor is summoned by Klarion the Witch Boy alongside Blockbuster, the vampiric Dala Vadium, Hugo Strange's Monster Men, Man-Bat, Professor Milo's werewolves, and Solomon Grundy to help fight Batman and Zatanna.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932131", "title": "Glutenin", "text": "Glutenin\n\nGlutenin (a type of glutelin) is a major protein within wheat flour, making up 47% of the total protein content. The glutenins are protein aggregates of high-molecular-mass (HMW) and low-molecular-mass (LMW) subunits with molar masses from about 200,000 to a few million, which are stabilized by intermolecular disulfide bonds, hydrophobic interactions and other forces. Glutenin is responsible for the strength and elasticity of dough.\n\nWheat gluten proteins consist of two major fractions: the gliadins and the glutenins. Gliadins are monomeric proteins, which can be separated into four groups: alpha-, beta-, gamma- and omega-gliadins. They are structurally similar to LMW glutenins. Glutenins occur as multimeric aggregates of high-molecular-mass and low-molecular-mass subunits held together by disulfide bonds.\n\nBreadmaking qualities are largely dependent on the number and composition of HMW glutenin subunits. It has been demonstrated that alleles Glu-A1b (Ax2∗) and Glu-D1d (Dx5 + Dy10) are normally associated with superior end-use quality, especially dough strength.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932148", "title": "We Care a Lot", "text": "We Care a Lot\n\nWe Care a Lot is the debut studio album by American rock band Faith No More, originally released in 1985 and distributed through San Francisco-based label Mordam Records. On the original vinyl release, the band is credited as \"Faith. No More.\" on the album's liner notes, back cover, and on the record itself.\n\nThe title track \"We Care a Lot\" was later rerecorded for their follow-up album \"Introduce Yourself\" and released as their first single. This later version of the song was incorrectly listed as the original and the album \"Introduce Yourself\" was also listed as the début in the sleeve notes for some subsequent releases, such as the 1998 compilation \"Who Cares a Lot?\".\n\nThe band is known to have re-recorded only one song from \"We Care a Lot\" in the studio with current singer Mike Patton on vocals. \"As the Worm Turns\" was recorded during the \"Angel Dust\" sessions.\n\nHowever, a number of live recordings of songs from this album with Patton on vocals have been officially released over the years.\n\n\nA later recording of \"We Care a Lot\" (from the album \"Introduce Yourself\") is used as the theme song for the Discovery Channel's show \"Dirty Jobs\", hosted by Mike Rowe.\n\nThe band initially started recording the album without backing from a record label and, after pooling their money, recorded five songs. This gained the attention of Ruth Schwartz (who was then forming the independent label Mordam Records) under which the band (after receiving the finances to do so) finished and released the album. It was the first official release for both the band and the label.\n\nThe album was recorded in a short space of time on a low budget. In a 2015 interview, bassist Billy Gould reflected \"There are probably things we could have done better, but at the same time I think that the performances were pretty damned good. And that had to do with us keeping focused and needing to work within those budget restrictions. We rehearsed quite a lot before we went in to record, so we were ready.\"\n\nWhile released on vinyl and cassette in 1985, this album would not be released to buy as a CD until 1995 in Australia (on Mushroom Records) as a pink disc for the first pressing, and black disc for the second, to coincide with the tour for their fifth studio album \"King for a Day... Fool for a Lifetime\", released that year. In 1996 it was reissued on CD, vinyl and cassette in the UK and Japan with slightly modified artwork, one being a purple disc. The CD reissue version of the album can be seen during a scene at a record store in the 1997 film \"Chasing Amy\". \n\nThe album was reissued by Koolarrow Records on August 19, 2016, and includes nine additional tracks, including three remixes, four demos and two live recordings from a 1986 show at the I-Beam, San Francisco. Remastered by Maor Appelbaum \n\nThe third track \"Mark Bowen\" was titled after an early Faith No More/Faith No Man guitarist of the same name.\n\n\"Select\" magazine, while also mentioning the roughness of production, said that the music is inexorable and \"a lustful marriage of mutoid metal and dancefloor verve that owed nothing to anybody\". Allmusic made repeated reference to the absence of future front man Mike Patton and criticized Chuck Mosley's vocals, calling him \"often off-key, fairly monotonous, and colorless\", but credited the album for having \"lots of attitude\" comparing it to early Public Image Ltd works.\n\nWe Care A Lot - Deluxe Band Edition - Remastered by Maor Appelbaum\n"}
{"id": "1932153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932153", "title": "CWShredder", "text": "CWShredder\n\nCWShredder is a program that runs on Microsoft Windows for removing the CoolWebSearch family of spyware. Originally created by Merijn Bellekom, it was bought by InterMute on October 19, 2004 until June 2005 when InterMute itself was acquired by Trend Micro.\n\nThe program is now distributed by Trend Micro, and is currently offered in two forms:\n\n\nThe program has not been updated since ownership transferred to Trend Micro. The currently available version is v2.19 which was released in November 2005. While still functional, it is unclear if Trend Micro have plans to update the program. There is controversy in some quarters over whether or not Trend Micro should\neither declare CWShredder open source or be compelled to give up ownership to another party so that the program can be maintained and updated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932161", "title": "Chronicon (Jerome)", "text": "Chronicon (Jerome)\n\nThe Chronicon (\"Chronicle\") or Temporum liber (\"Book of Times\") was a universal chronicle written by Jerome. It was one of his earliest attempts at history. It was composed c. 380 in Constantinople; this is a translation into Latin of the chronological tables which compose the second part of the \"Chronicon\" of Eusebius, with a supplement covering the period from 325 to 379. Despite numerous errors taken from Eusebius, and some of his own, Jerome produced a valuable work of universal history, if only for the example which it gave to such later chroniclers as Prosper of Aquitaine, Cassiodorus, and Victor of Tunnuna to continue his annals. In conformity with the \"Chronicon\" of Eusebius (early 4th century), Jerome dated Creation to 5201 BC.\n\nThe Chronicle includes a chronology of the events of Greek mythology, based on the work of Hellenistic scholars such as Apollodorus, Diodorus Siculus, and Eusebius. While the earlier parts are obviously unhistorical, there may be scattered remnants of historical events of late Mycenean Greece from entries of the 12th century BC. (See the historicity of the \"Iliad\". Notably, Jerome's date for the capture of Troy of 1183 BC corresponds remarkably well with the destruction layer of Troy VIIa, the main candidate for the historical inspiration of legendary Troy, dated to c. 1190 BC.) Homer himself is dated to 940 BC, while modern scholarship usually dates him after 800 BC.\n\nFrom Adam until the 14th year of Valens, 5,579 years\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932162", "title": "Otto Ruge", "text": "Otto Ruge\n\nOtto Ruge (9 January 1882 – 15 August 1961) was a Norwegian general. Ruge was Commander-in-chief of the Royal Norwegian Armed Forces after Nazi Germany's assault on Norway in April 1940.\n\nRuge grew up in Kristiania (Oslo) in a family with strong military traditions. He attended Oslo Cathedral School. Already 20 years old, he was a military officer. He attended the Norwegian Military College (1905) and took the General Staff exam (1915). Colonel Otto Ruge became chief of the General Staff in 1933. In 1938 he resigned from the position and was appointed as inspector general of infantry.\n\nIn 1940, Colonel Ruge was promoted to Major General and assumed command after the former C-in-C, Generalmajor Kristian Laake, who was supposed to go into retirement a few days after the German attack on Norway, displayed a defeatist attitude and consequently was relieved of command. General Ruge persuaded the government to fight the German invaders. He was convinced that fighting would be vital to the country and the nation's self-respect, but pragmatic enough to realize that a need for Allied help was crucial to succeed. Ruge had a hard task on his hands: he received command over an only partly mobilised army. Norway had already lost all major cities to the Germans, moreover the Germans had established air superiority. The loss of one of the few infantry regiments available, the Norwegian third infantry regiment, its commander surrendering without a shot being fired, falsely believing that he was surrounded, made the situation even worse.\n\nRuge's main strategy was to slowly retreat northward and to establish a defence line south of Trondheim while waiting for the Allies to reconquer that city. However, the Allies launched their pincers toward Trondheim too late, and too far away from their destination. As a result of this several of the pincer forces became entangled in combat before the attack against the city could be launched.\n\nRuge's choices have later been criticised. Retired Major General Torkel Hovland claims that General Ruge to a large degree was responsible for the ease of which German forces were able to occupy Norway. This was partly due to his appeasement with the Labor party and their razing of the Norwegian Army during the 1930s and partly due to his failure to mount a more active, determined defense in central Norway.\n\nHowever, other military historians have contested these views. Of them are Terje Holm and Kjetil Skogrand, both with ties to the Norwegian Labour Party. Terje Holm at the Norwegian Armed Forces Museum claims that the Norwegian Mobilization Army had the necessary arms, but that the Army never became mobilized because of misunderstandings and the surprise of the German attack, and that the \"ad hoc\" nature of the randomly mobilized Norwegian units drastically hampered their operations as well as their ability to counterattack. Kjetil Skogrand, former State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, perceive Hovland's criticism of Ruge as comments on present-day Norwegian defence policies than related to Otto Ruge's actual strategies. Skogrand has also criticized Hovland for comparing General Carl Gustav Fleischer's more active fighting style around Narvik with Ruge's more defensive style further south. Fleischer, because of northern Norway's geographical distance from Germany, is seen as enjoying the advantage of more time to train and mobilise his forces, and being less disturbed by the Luftwaffe.\n\nPartially in contrast to what Terje Holm as well as Torkel Hovland claim, military historian Tom Kristiansen emphasizes that even though Otto Ruge participated in the downsizing of the Norwegian Army during the early 1930s, he also warned against the renewed threat after 1935 and pointed to the weakness of the Norwegian mobilization system.\n\nRuge was evacuated after the fall of southern Norway and participated in the Battle of Narvik. After the withdrawal of Allied forces he remained in Norway to negotiate the surrender of the remains of the Norwegian Army. Subsequently, he was arrested by the Germans and sent to Germany for the rest of the war.\n\nAfter the war, Ruge was promoted to Lt. General and briefly reinstated as Commander-in-Chief, but fell out with his political superiors. His memoirs from the 1940 campaign was published in Norway under the title \"Felttoget 1940\". General Otto Ruge was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav and awarded the Collar of the same order for his service to the nation during World War II. He was also given the residence of the commandant quarters of Høytorp fort at Mysen in Østfold until his death in 1961.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932171", "title": "Halo nucleus", "text": "Halo nucleus\n\nIn nuclear physics, an atomic nucleus is called a halo nucleus or is said to have a nuclear halo when it has a core nucleus surrounded by a \"halo\" of orbiting protons or neutrons, which makes the radius of the nucleus appreciably larger than that predicted by the liquid drop model. Halo nuclei form at the extreme edges of the table of nuclides — the neutron drip line and proton drip line — and have short half-lives, measured in milliseconds. These nuclei are studied shortly after their formation in an ion beam.\n\nTypically, an atomic nucleus is a tightly bound group of protons and neutrons. However, in some nuclides, there is an overabundance of one species of nucleon. In some of these cases, a nuclear core and a halo will form.\n\nOften, this property may be detected in scattering experiments, which show the nucleus to be much larger than the otherwise expected value. Normally, the cross-section (corresponding to the classical radius) of the nucleus is proportional to the cube root of its mass, as would be the case for a sphere of constant density. Specifically, for a nucleus of mass number \"A\", the radius \"r\" is (approximately)\n\nwhere formula_2 is 1.2 fm.\n\nOne example of a halo nucleus is Li, which has a half-life of 8.6 ms. It contains a core of 3 protons and 6 neutrons, and a halo of two independent and loosely bound neutrons. It decays into Be by the emission of an antineutrino and an electron. Its mass radius of 3.16 fm is close to that of S or, even more impressively, of Pb, both much heavier nuclei.\n\nExperimental confirmation of nuclear halos is recent and ongoing. Additional candidates are suspected. Several nuclides including B, N, and N are calculated to have a halo in the excited state but not in the ground state.\n\nNuclei that have a neutron halo include Be and C. A two-neutron halo is exhibited by He, Li, B, B and C. \n\nTwo-neutron halo nuclei break into three fragments and are called Borromean because of this behavior, analogously to how all three of the Borromean rings are linked together but no two share a link. For example, the two-neutron halo nucleus He (which can be taken as a three-body system consisting of an alpha particle and two neutrons) is bound, but neither He nor the dineutron is. He and Be both exhibit a four-neutron halo.\n\nNuclei that have a proton halo include B and P. A two-proton halo is exhibited by Ne and S. Proton halos are expected to be rarer and more unstable than neutron halos because of the repulsive forces of the excess proton(s).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932173", "title": "Holocaust (sacrifice)", "text": "Holocaust (sacrifice)\n\nA holocaust is a religious animal sacrifice that is completely consumed by fire. The word derives from the Ancient Greek \"holokaustos\" (ὁλόκαυστος from ὅλος \"whole\" and καυστός \"burnt\", with rough breathing), which is used solely for one of the major forms of sacrifice. \n\n\"Holokautein\" (ὁλοκαυτεῖν) is one of the two chief verbs of Greek sacrifice, in which the victim is utterly destroyed and burnt up, as opposed to \"thúesthai\" (θύεσθαι), to share a meal with the god and one's fellow worshippers, \"commensal\" sacrifice. In the latter, the edible parts of the sacrificed animal were roasted and distributed for festive celebration, whereas the inedible parts were burned on the altar, those being the god's share. Although not actually \"obliged\" to do so, Greeks would rather sacrifice a domestic animal to a god or hero and then proceed to use its flesh as food, as animals were thought of as sharing in the sanctity of life - in addition to their secular usefulness (milk, eggs, ploughing). This did not apply to game, fish, and other seafood, which formed a far larger proportion of the diet than they do today – fish was the major foodstuff sold in ancient Greek marketplaces. A sacrifice need not be a public function involving priests and altars; they could also be held privately, domestically or individually.\n\nThese are the two ideal types of Greek sacrificial ritual; they are appropriate to different divinities, done for different purposes, and conducted by different methods. Holocausts are apotropaic rituals, intended to appease the spirits of the Underworld, including the Greek heroes, who are spirits of the dead; they are also given to dangerous powers, such as the Keres and Hecate. One of the earliest attested holocausts was Xenophon's offering of pigs to Zeus Meilichius. \n\nHolocausts are conducted at night, without wine, and offer black-hided animals at a low altar, with their heads directed downwards; in all these they are opposed to the commensal sacrifice given to the Olympian gods. (This distinction is between extreme types, and was somewhat exaggerated in the early twentieth century, as by Jane Harrison; considerable evidence has also been found of commensal sacrifice offered to heroes.)\n\nWhen the Hebrew Bible was translated into Greek, as the Septuagint, the translators used the Greek term to translate the \"burnt offering\" in Ancient Israel. A \"burnt offering\" (, \"`olah\" – from the verb \"to cause to ascend,\" hence \"burn\") is a type of Biblical sacrifice, specifically an animal sacrifice in which the entire sacrifice is completely burnt, consumed totally by fire. The term \"burnt offering\" derives from the Septuagint translation, itself deriving from the Biblical phrase \"an offering made by fire\", which occurs in the description (Leviticus 1) of the offering. This form of sacrifice, in which no meat was left over for anyone, was seen as the greatest form of sacrifice and was the form of sacrifice permitted by Judaism to be given at the Temple by Jews and non-Jews.\n\nThe \"whole offering\" is believed to have evolved as an extreme form of the \"slaughter offering\", whereby the portion allocated to the deity increased to all of it. In \"slaughter offerings\", the portion allocated to the deity was mainly the fat, the part which can most easily be burnt (fat is quite combustible); scholars believe it was felt that the deity, being aethereal, would appreciate aethereal food more than solid food—the burning of the fatty parts of animals being to produce smoke as a \"sweet savour\" for the deity. \n\nThe animals, having first been checked to ensure they were free from disease and unblemished (a requirement of the sacrifice), were brought to the north side of the altar, and killed by either the offerer, or a priest. The animal's blood was carefully collected by priests and sprinkled around the altar. Unless the animal was a bird, its corpse was flayed, the skin given to the priest (who was permitted to keep it). In later times more powerful priests forcibly took possession of the skins from the lesser priests, and it was decreed that the skins should be sold, with the proceeds being given to the Temple in Jerusalem (Tosefta 19) The flesh of the animal was divided according to detailed instructions given by the Talmud (Tamid 31), and would then be placed on the wood on the altar (which was constantly on fire due the large number of sacrifices carried out daily), and slowly burnt. After the flesh (including any horns and goats' beards) had been reduced to ashes, usually the following morning, the ashes were taken by the priest to a ritually clean location outside the sanctuary, and dumped there.\n\nMost biblical scholars now agree that the intricate details of the \"whole offering\", particularly the types and number of animals on occasion of various feast days, given by the Torah, were of a late origin, as were the intricate directions given in the Talmud. \"Whole offerings\" were quite rare in early times, but as the ritual became more fixed and statutory, and the concentration of sacrifice into a single sanctuary (particularly after Josiah's reform) made sacrifices quite distinct from simply killing animals for food, \"whole offerings\" gradually rose to great prominence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932186", "title": "Start Static", "text": "Start Static\n\nStart Static is the third studio album released by Sugarcult, released on August 21, 2001 by Ultimatum Music. It was their first album to receive mainstream success.\n\nVocalist/guitarist Tim Pagnotta founded Sugarcult in Santa Barbara, California, in 1998 with drummer Ben Davis. Bassist Airin Older joined, followed by guitarist Marko DeSantis. They released two albums, \"Eleven\" (1998) and \"Wrap Me Up in Plastic\" (2000), and two EPs, \"Get Street Cred\" (1999) and \"Songs About Girls\" (2000). The band spent October 2001 to February 2002 working on new material, including tracks such as \"Stuck in America\", \"Crashing Down\" and \"Lost in You\". In total, they had 24 songs to choose from for inclusion on their next album.\n\nThe group sent demos to record labels, eventually signing to independent label Ultimatum Music in January 2001. Recording for their next album took place at Rumbo Recorders in Los Angeles, California with producer Matt Wallace in March and April 2001. He was helped by engineer Mike Landolt and assistant Posie Muliadi. Davis did additional production and engineering, as well as produce and engineer \"I Changed My Name\" and the hidden track. Wallace mixed the recordings with assistant Brett Nolan at Can Am Studios in May, before they were mastered by Alan Yoshida at Oceanway/JVC Mastering.\n\nMusically, \"Start Static\" has been described as pop punk, pop rock and power pop, with influences from punk rock, drawing a comparison to American Hi-Fi. DeSantis gave the album its title, which Pagnotta said was a slang term for beginning a fight. The songs tackle the themes of disbelief, escapism and recklessness. With the lyrics, Pagnotta didn't feel comfortable being completely vulnerable and that he was unsure how to process his thoughts. \"You're the One\" opens with an Elvis Costello-esque riff. \"Stuck in America\" is about being young and wanting to leave your town. \"Saying Goodbye\" is about wanting a change of scenery. \"Lost in You\" is a nostalgic view of a past relationship, and was compared to the Goo Goo Dolls.\n\nOn June 18, 2001, the band's next album was announced for release in August; its track listing was also revealed. On July 18, the group revealed the album's title: \"Start Static\". Preceded by the radio single \"Stuck in America\" on August 6, \"Start Static\" was released on August 21. During the month, a music video was filmed for \"Stuck in America\", directed by Shawn Foster. The band re-recorded \"Bouncing Off the Walls\" with producer Mark Trombino, which was released as a radio single on February 5, 2002; the CD single featured \"How Does It Feel\" and \"Killing Me\". The group filmed a music video for \"Bouncing Off the Walls\" in Hollywood.\n\nAround this time, they gained exposure when four songs from \"Start Static\" appeared in the film \"Van Wilder\" (2002), the soundtrack to which featured \"Bouncing Off the Walls\" and was also released through Ultimatum. The \"Bouncing Off the Walls\" video, directed by Steven Oritt, premiered on MTV's \"Total Request Live\" on April 4, and featured Tara Reid and Ryan Reynolds, both of whom had starred in \"Van Wilder\". \"Pretty Girl (The Way)\" was released as a radio single on July 29; the CD single featured \"Over Now\", \"Say I'm Sorry\" and the music video for \"Pretty Girl (The Way)\". The video was released online on August 6; it was filmed in Trinidad by director Orbitt. \n\nDavis went to rehab and was temporarily replaced by Lefty drummer Kenny Livingston in September; Davis officially left the group by Thanksgiving. In January 2003, the band signed to Epitaph Records to release \"Start Static\" in Europe. While in London, a second video for \"Bouncing Off the Walls\" was made, directed by Orbitt, and featured live footage and the band around the city. \"Stuck in America\" was released as a single in the UK on March 10; the CD single featured \"You're the One\", \"No Action\" and the music video for \"Stuck in America\". On March 17, Epitaph made the album available for streaming, before releasing it in Europe on March 24. In 2011, the band played 10th anniversary show for \"Start Static\", which included Davis performing with them.\n\nFollowing the album's mixing sessions, the band played a handful of regional shows in May and June 2001. The group had initially planned to only play the first eleven shows of the Warped Tour, until they were added to the remaining dates from late June to early August, save for a one-week support slot for Blink-182 in late July. They embarked on a month-long US tour, running into mid-September when they began played radio station festivals until early October. In October and November, the group toured the US with Reel Big Fish, Goldfinger and Lefty, before embarking on a two-week tour with Good Charlotte and Mest in November and December. The band closed the year with a handful of headlining shows. In January 2002, the band toured with Home Grown on their US tour.\n\nFollowing this, the group went on a five-week national US tour supporting Unwritten Law in February and March, before spending the remainder of March playing headlining shows. The band played an assortment of shows with Fairview and Lefty in April, before embarking on a six-week US tour. Older dropped off the tour, citing personal reasons, with Billy Lee from the 65 Film Show and Tim Cullen from Summercamp filling in his position. The band took a short break, before playing a two-week stint on the Warped Tour in July. After Warped, the group went on a US tour with Less Than Jake in August. Between October and December, the band supported the Ataris on their headlining US tour. Following this, the band supported Reel Big Fish on their headlining UK tour in January and February 2003.\n\nBy December 2003, the album had sold 300,000 copies.\n\nTrack listing per booklet.\n\n\nPersonnel per booklet.\nSugarcult\n\nProduction\n\nAlbum\nSingles\nCitations\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1932188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932188", "title": "Radiolocation", "text": "Radiolocation\n\nRadiolocating is the process of finding the location of something through the use of radio waves. It generally refers to passive uses, particularly radar—as well as detecting buried cables, water mains, and other public utilities. It is similar to radionavigation, but radiolocation usually refers to passively finding a distant object rather than actively one's own position. Both are types of radiodetermination. Radiolocation is also used in real-time locating systems (RTLS) for tracking valuable assets.\n\nAn object can be located by measuring the characteristics of received radio waves. The radio waves may be transmitted by the object to be located, or they may be backscattered waves (as in radar or passive RFID). A stud finder uses radiolocation when it uses radio waves rather than ultrasound.\n\nOne technique measures a distance by using the difference in the power of the received signal strength (RSSI) as compared to the originating signal strength. Another technique uses the time of arrival (TOA), when the time of transmission and speed of propagation are known. Combining TOA data from several receivers at different known locations (time difference of arrival, TDOA) can provide an estimate of position even in the absence of knowledge of the time of transmission. The angle of arrival (AOA) at a receiving station can be determined by the use of a directional antenna, or by differential time of arrival at an array of antennas with known location. AOA information may be combined with distance estimates from the techniques previously described to establish the location of a transmitter or backscatterer. Alternatively, the AOA at two receiving stations of known location establishes the position of the transmitter. The use of multiple receivers to locate a transmitter is known as multilateration.\n\nEstimates are improved when the transmission characteristics of the medium is factored into the calculations. For RSSI this means electromagnetic permeability; for TOA it may mean non-line-of-sight receptions.\n\nUse of RSSI to locate a transmitter from a single receiver requires that both the transmitted (or backscattered) power from the object to be located are known, and that the propagation characteristics of the intervening region are known. In empty space, signal strength decreases as the inverse square of the distance for distances large compared to a wavelength and compared to the object to be located, but in most real environments, a number of impairments can occur: absorption, refraction, shadowing, and reflection. Absorption is negligible for radio propagation in air at frequencies less than about 10 GHz, but becomes important at multi-GHz frequencies where rotational molecular states can be excited. Refraction is important at long ranges (tens to hundreds of kilometers) due to gradients in moisture content and temperature in the atmosphere. In urban, mountainous, or indoor environments, obstruction by intervening obstacles and reflection from nearby surfaces are very common, and contribute to multipath distortion: that is, reflected and delayed replicates of the transmitted signal are combined at the receiver. Signals from different paths can add constructively or destructively: such variations in amplitude are known as fading. The dependence of signal strength on position of transmitter and receiver becomes complex and often non-monotonic, making single-receiver estimates of position inaccurate and unreliable. Multilateration using many receivers is often combined with calibration measurements (\"fingerprinting\") to improve accuracy.\n\nTOA and AOA measurements are also subject to multipath errors, particularly when the direct path from the transmitter to receiver is blocked by an obstacle. Time of arrival measurements are also most accurate when the signal has distinct time-dependent features on the scale of interest—for example, when it is composed of short pulses of known duration—but Fourier transform theory shows that in order to change amplitude or phase on a short time scale, a signal must use a broad bandwidth. For example, to create a pulse of about 1 ns duration, roughly sufficient to identify location to within 0.3 m (1 foot), a bandwidth of roughly 1 GHz is required. In many regions of the radio spectrum, emission over such a broad bandwidth is not allowed by the relevant regulatory authorities, in order to avoid interference with other narrowband users of the spectrum. In the United States, unlicensed transmission is allowed in several bands, such as the 902-928 MHz and 2.4-2.483 GHz Industrial, Scientific, and Medical ISM bands, but high-power transmission cannot extend outside of these bands. However, several jurisdictions now allow ultrawideband transmission over GHz or multi-GHz bandwidths, with constraints on transmitted power to minimize interference with other spectrum users. UWB pulses can be very narrow in time, and often provide accurate estimates of TOA in urban or indoor environments.\n\nRadiolocation is employed in a wide variety of industrial and military activities. Radar systems often use a combination of TOA and AOA to determine a backscattering object's position using a single receiver. In Doppler radar, the Doppler shift is also taken into account, determining velocity rather than location (though it helps determine future location). Real Time Location Systems RTLS using calibrated RTLS, and TDOA, are commercially available. The widely used Global Positioning System (GPS) is based on TOA of signals from satellites at known positions.\n\nRadiolocation is also used in cellular telephony via base stations. Most often, this is done through trilateration between radio towers. The location of the Caller or handset can be determined several ways:\n\nThe first two depend on a line-of-sight, which can be difficult or impossible in mountainous terrain or around skyscrapers. Location signatures actually work \"better\" in these conditions however. TDMA and GSM networks such as Cingular and T-Mobile use TDOA.\n\nCDMA networks such as Verizon Wireless and Sprint PCS tend to use handset-based radiolocation technologies, which are technically more similar to radionavigation. GPS is one of those technologies.\n\nComposite solutions, needing both the handset and the network include:\n\nInitially, the purpose of any of these in mobile phones is so that the public safety answering point (PSAP) which answers calls to an emergency telephone number can know where the caller is and exactly where to send emergency services. This ability is known within the NANP (North America) as wireless enhanced 911. Mobile phone users may have the option to permit the location information gathered to be sent to other phone numbers or data networks, so that it can help people who are simply lost or want other location-based services. By default, this selection is usually turned off, to protect privacy.\n\n Radiolocation service (short: RLS) is – according to \"Article 1.48\" of the International Telecommunication Union's (ITU) Radio Regulations (RR) – defined as \"«A radiodetermination service for the purpose of radiolocation\".»\n\nThis \"radiocommunication service\" is classified in accordance with \"ITU Radio Regulations\" (article 1) as follows: \nRadiodetermination service (article 1.40)\n\nThe \"radiolocation service\" distinguishes basically\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932198", "title": "Veselin Čajkanović", "text": "Veselin Čajkanović\n\nVeselin Čajkanović (; 1881 in Belgrade – 1946) was a Serbian classical scholar, philosopher, ethnologist, religious history scholar, and Greek and Latin translator.\n\nČajkanović studied classical philology at Belgrade's Grandes écoles (\"Velika škola\"), and received an international scholarship, on the recommendation of professor Pavle Popović, to take post-graduate studies at the University of Leipzig and University of Munich (where he took his Master of Arts degree) and finished his doctorate under Karl Krumbacher. In 1908 he became a Latin lecturer at the Belgrade University School of Philosophy and published his MA dissertation, \"Quaestionum paroemiographicarum capita selecta\", in Tübingen.\n\nČajkanović fought in both Balkan Wars and in World War I. He retreated with the Serbian Army through Albania in face of the 1915 anti-Serbian offensive of the Central Powers. He contracted diphtheria during the last two days of the retreat through Albania and was transferred to a hospital in Bizerte. Later he was at the Thessaloniki Front, where he described his activities in his \"Autobiography\" as \"defending, together with other Balkan Christians, his country from foreign conquerors.\" Čajkanović was awarded the Order of the White Eagle with Swords and the Légion d'honneur. Shortly before the end of the war, Čajkanovic was sent to Paris and London on a mission \"to show what Serbia is and who the Serbs are.\" There he participated in preparing lectures organized by the Serbian Legation and during his free time read and studied at the Bibliothèque nationale in Paris and the British Museum library in London. \nIn 1919 he returned to Belgrade to resume his work as a professor (docent), assistant professor and in 1922 he was named full professor. From 1921 on he taught the comparative history of religion at the Faculty of Theology in Belgrade. In 1923 he was professor of classical languages, chairman of the classics department at Belgrade University, and prolific contributor to 'Srpski književni glasnik' (The Serbian Literary Herald).\n\nSaid Marko Živković in the Anthropology of East Europe Review, \"Čajkanović was one who brought the latest philosophical, historical, ethnographic and comparative methodologies of inter war Europe to bear on his life project of reconstructing from the pre-Christian, pagan Serbian mythology and religions. Čajkanović did most of his work between the wars in Belgrade where he was a professor at the University and a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\n\"He did not leave a line of successors, as he might have done, being in many respects a figure comparable to what Mircea Eliade was in Romania.\"\n\nIn the eyes of the Communist regime, \"Dr. Veselin Čajkanović, dean at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Belgrade during German occupation, represented the university as a member of the Ministry of Education and Faith's Advisory Board on the creation of the Serbian civil plan, whose initiator and organizer was Vladimir Velmar-Janković, assistant of the Minister of Education and Faith.\" \n\nThe communists who took over after the war did not approve of Čajkanović's scholarship, and even to this day, most of his work is still in manuscript form. Veselin Čajkanović taught at the Faculty of Theology of the University of Belgrade throughout German occupation of Yugoslavia, and when the provisional government of the so-called Democratic Federal Yugoslavia put Communists in power, he was so engrossed with his work that he did not notice what went around him. He may not have been himself troubled about gunfire in the streets, but he began to fear for the safety of his family in such uncertain conditions.\n\nAbove all a professor who was relatively uninterested in politics and causes, Čajkanović certainly realized, as did his compatriots and fellow-professors, Vladimir Velmar-Janković, Slobodan Jovanović, Dimitrije Najdanović, Miloš Mladenović, Đoko Slijepčević and many others, who left the country in time, that an environment of occupation, revolution and civil war was -- as Čajkanović put it -- \"hardly the time for teaching.\" Yet he taught privately just the same since the University of Belgrade was forced to close down in 1941. And so, it was not long before he was dismissed by the Communists as \"an undesirable war criminal\" for teaching while under Nazi occupation. It came as an unbearable shock to a sensitive scholar like himself. He fell ill never to recover his health again. He died a year later, in 1946.\n\nHe authored several books, while numerous studies and articles remained scattered in various publications. His texts were published mainly in Serbian, Latin, and German and include:\n\nČajkanović's collected works, edited by Vojislav Đurić, were published in five volumes in 1994 in Belgrade.\n\nMarko Zivkovic, Translator, University of Chicago, \"Classics in East European Ethnography Series: 'Magical Sitting' by Veselin Cajkanovic,\" Newslatter of the East European Anthropology Group, Spring 1996, Vol. 14, No. 1, Robert Rotenberg, Editor, Department of Sociology, DePaul University, Chicago, Il. 60614.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932199", "title": "Saung", "text": "Saung\n\nThe saung (byat saung and saung gauk) (Burmese: စောင်းကောက်, MLCTS caung: kauk; ; , ; also known as the saung-gauk, Burmese harp, Burma harp, or Myanmar harp) is an arched harp used in traditional Burmese music. The saung is regarded as a national musical instrument of Burma. The saung is unique in that it is a very ancient harp tradition and is said to be the only surviving harp in Asia.\n\nThe Burmese harp is classified as an arched horizontal harp since the resonator body is more horizontal as opposed to the Western harp, which has a vertical resonator. The main parts of the harp are the body, the long curved neck, carved out of the root of a tree, and a string bar running down the center of the top of the body. The top of the resonator body is covered with a tightly stretched deer hide, heavily lacquered in red with four small circular sound holes. The standard dimensions of the saung are . The neck terminates in a highly decorated representation of the bo tree leaf. The whole of the harp body is decorated with pieces of mica (\"Mandalay pearls\"), glass, gilt, and red and black lacquer. The stand is similarly decorated. The ends of the strings on the harp is decorated with red cotton tassels. The saung's strings are made of silk or nylon.\n\nThe thirteen to sixteen strings of the harp angle upwards from the string bar to the string bindings on the lower part of the curved arch of the neck. Traditionally, tuning was accomplished by twisting and adjusting the string bindings. Recently constructed harps have machine heads or tuning pegs to make tuning easier. The traditional silk strings have also been supplanted by nylon strings, but silk-stringed harps can still be seen.\n\nA full-sized harp has a body of about 80 cm long, 16 cm wide, and 16 cm deep, and the arch rises about 60 cm from the body. Smaller harps have been made for smaller players.\n\nThe harp is played by sitting on the floor with the body in the lap, and the arch on the left. The strings are plucked with the right hand fingers from the outside. The left hand is used to dampen the strings to promote clarity and produce staccato notes. Stopped tones are produced by using left thumbnail to press against the string from the inside to increase its tension.\n\nThe Burmese harp is a very ancient instrument. The \"saung\" may have been introduced as early as 500 AD from southeastern India, based on archaeological evidence, namely in the form of Burmese temple reliefs that depict a long-necked harp very similar to depictions found in Bengal. The earliest archaeological evidence of the harp is at the Bawbawgyi temple of the Sri Ksetra kingdom of the Pyu people, near present-day Pyay (Prome). At that site, there is a sculptured decoration where the arched harp with about five strings appears in a scene where musicians and a dancer are depicted. This site has been dated to the early eighth century. Contemporary Chinese chronicles from the same period cite Pyu musicians playing the arched harp. The harp has survived continuously since that time, and has been mentioned in many chronicles and texts. The current Burmese word for the harp \"saung\" has been recorded in Bagan temples, as well as in pictorial representations.\n\nThe earliest song-poem texts in Burmese date to the early 14th century, although the music has not survived. It is conjectured that this song-poem was harp music since text refers to the siege of Myinzaing, and \"Myinzaing\" is one of the classical tunings and musical forms in use today.\n\nThe harp benefited from the cultural renaissance of the Konbaung era (1752–1885). When the Burmese king Hsinbyushin sacked Ayuthaya, he brought back with him many Siamese courtiers. The captured Siamese actors and musicians fueled new forms and experiments in harp music. The most significant innovator was the talented courtier Myawaddy Mingyi U Sa (1766–1853), who adapted repertoires of Siamese music into Burmese, rewrote the Siamese Ramayana, called Ramakien, into the Burmese \"Enaung-zat\", composed harp music for it, and developed a whole new genre of harp music called \"Yodaya\" (the Burmese word for Ayutthaya). U Sa was responsible for increasing the number of harp strings from seven to thirteen, such that the notes spanned two and a half octaves, from C3 to F5. The last Konbaung court harpist, Maung Maung Gyi, added the 14th string. Ba Than, a post-independence harpist, created a 16-string saung.\n\nIn the 18th century the instrument was introduced to Qing dynasty China, becoming known as \"zonggaoji\" (总稿机, a transliteration of \"saung-gauk\").\n\nUntil the 1800s, the Burmese harp and its music was exclusively used only for chamber music within the royal court, where it held status as the most prized of the court instruments. Since then, it has become popular with the general population, but is still played only in more intimate chamber settings.\n\nThe harp is usually accompanied by a singer, or more accurately, the singer is accompanied by the harp, with the harp adapting to the singer, who controls the time with a bell and clapper to indicate the music tempo.\n\nThe Burmese classical music scale is tuned differently from the Western scale, and has been said to be derived from the descending cycle of fifths. This is only approximately true, and traditionally, the harp is tuned differently for the four major different modes of Burmese classical music.\n\nRecently, due to the overriding influence of Western music, many harpists tune to the Western diatonic scale, since fewer and fewer singers feel fully comfortable with the traditional tunings.\n\nBurmese music has not been written down with notation, only the text of the songs are recorded, and the rendition of the music has been passed down through the generations from teacher to student. The last and most well known harpist of the court was U Maung Maung Gyi (1855–1933), who was given a post at King Mindon's court at the young age of thirteen, and given the title \"Deiwa-Einda\" (Heavenly Musician), which now identifies him. He trained many musicians who became accomplished musicians in their own right. The lineage of today's harpists can be traced directly back to the Deiwa-Einda and other musicians from the court of Mandalay.\n\nWith the British annexation and the fall of court of Mandalay, the Burmese court culture and traditions were still carried on for a while at the court of Saophas of Hsipaw, the Shan state closest to Mandalay culturally and geographically. The well-known harpists U Hpu Gyaung and Sao Mya Aye Kyi were from Hsipaw.\n\nIn 1956, the Japanese film director Kon Ichikawa made an Oscar nominated anti-war film called \"The Burmese Harp\" (Biruma no tategoto), set in Burma during World War II. The main character was a Japanese soldier who becomes a Buddhist monk due to the horrors of war. He plays the \"saung\". However, the sound of the saung is removed from the soundtrack and replaced with an overdub of a Western classical pedal harp. Ichikawa also directed a remake of the film in 1985, which was also a major commercial and critical success.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932200", "title": "Kentucky Three-Day Event", "text": "Kentucky Three-Day Event\n\nThe Kentucky Three Day Event, currently the Land Rover Kentucky Three Day Event due to sponsorship, is an eventing competition held at the Kentucky Horse Park in Lexington, Kentucky. Rolex Kentucky is a CCI***** eventing competition. Five stars is the highest level of competition in the sport, the same level of competition as Eventing at the Olympics and the World Equestrian Games. The event is sponsored by Land Rover. Prize money of $ is distributed among the top placings with $ as well as a Rolex watch awarded to the first place horse and rider.\n\nAlthough the event's name continues to reflect its roots as a three-day competition, the Kentucky Three-Day Event currently takes place over four days (Thursday through Sunday). Due to large number of entries, both Thursday and Friday are devoted to the dressage test. Cross-country is on Saturday, and show jumping is on Sunday.\n\nThe Kentucky Three-Day Event is held the last weekend of April, the week before the Kentucky Derby. It is one of the three events in the Rolex Grand Slam of Eventing.\n\nIn 1974, Bruce Davidson and the United States Equestrian Team won individual and team gold at the World Championships held in Burghley, England. This gave the United States the right to hold the next World Championships four years later, in 1978. The Kentucky Horse Park in Lexington, Kentucky was due to open around the same time, and plans were made to hold the World Championships there.\n\nEquestrian Events, Inc. (EEI) was formed to as a non-profit organization to help plan the competition and raise public awareness. The first horse trials at the Kentucky Horse Park was held in 1976, to prepare. In 1977, the National Pony Club Rally and the North American Junior Three-Day Event Championships were also held there.\n\nThe 1978 event had more than 170,000 spectators and added more than $4 million to the local economy. The event was broadcast worldwide, as well as nationally on CBS. The success of the World Championships helped to convince the EEU to continue the event annually. Today, the event is broadcast worldwide in 18 languages.\nAlthough the event began as an advanced three-day, and later included open intermediate and preliminary competitions, today it only holds the highest level: the CCI****. Intermediate-level competition was held in 1979 and from 1985 to 1981. An Advanced-level CCI was held from 1980 to 1999 up to the *** level, with Advanced Horse Trials (non-CCI) also held from 1992 to 1996. The CCI**** was begun in 1998, and has been held annually since. Since 2000, the CCI**** is the only competition held during this time, and the preliminary, intermediate, and CCI*** levels are not offered.\nThe Kentucky Three-Day Event also hoped to continue the classic format, despite the other major events around the world switching to the short format. Originally, the plan was to alternate years, offering the short format in even-numbered years as preparation for the Olympic games or the World Championship, while running the classic format in odd-numbered years. However, in 2006 it was announced that, due to lack of funds and interest from upper level riders, the event would only offer the short format. Therefore, all competition run before 2005 (excluding the 2004 Modified division) was run \"classic format,\" and from the 2006 event onward has been run in the \"short format.\"\n\nThe CCI**** competition was first suggested in 1994 by Denny Emerson, who believed the United States had enough competitors at this high level to warrant the development of a four-star. Previously, American riders trained in England when they were preparing for international competition, as the country had the only two annual CCI**** at that time: Badminton and Burghley. The USET began making plans in 1996, and held the country's first and the world's third annual four-star competition at the Kentucky Horse Park in 1998.\n\nAfter the 2018 season, the FEI added an introductory level below CCI*, bumping all subsequent levels upward. While there was no change to the difficulty of the competition, the added level forced all former CCI**** competitions to re-classify as CCI*****.\n\nThis sport takes many different precautions concerning the horse's health. Two horses died of a heart attack on the course in April 2008.\n\nSelf-efficacy is a way to assess themselves and the horse using a scientific method. Evaluating the health of the horse is important because the horse could easily get injured.\n\nA study was done to compare the heart rate between a trained and untrained horse. The results show that trained horses do not have more stress or pain in comparison with untrained horses. However, if evaluated 30 minutes before competition, the trained horse would show less stress. According to this experiment the training method, \"Deep and Round\", put more stress on the horse.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932206", "title": "Paul Montgomery", "text": "Paul Montgomery\n\nJoseph Paul Montgomery (June 5, 1960 – June 19, 1999 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor. In the mid 1980s, he was among the first to see the potential of personal computer technology in the field of video production and 3D animation. As Vice President of NewTek and Co-Founder and President of Play, Inc., Montgomery drove the creation of the first widely-successful digital video products, including the Emmy-award-winning Video Toaster and the Snappy Video Snapshot.\n\nIn the 1996 book, \"The Age of Videography,\" Montgomery was cited as one of the 25 most influential people in the history of videography. Montgomery received a Primetime Emmy award for his personal contributions in creating the Video Toaster. He is listed as an inventor on U.S. patents 6,380,950 and 6,941,517 regarding low-bandwidth television.\n\nAlthough Montgomery started his career in real estate and artist promotion, in the early 1980s he became enamored by technology and personal computers, in particular with the Commodore Amiga. In 1985, the Amiga computer featured graphics, audio and multi-tasking capabilities greater than other personal computers of its time, making it a suitable platform for early 3D animation, video production and audio production products.\n\nMontgomery first came to the fore in the Amiga community as a founder of the First Amiga User Group (FAUG, pronounced \"fog\") in California's Silicon Valley. FAUG meetings often featured the hardware and software engineers responsible for the creation of the Amiga, since the Amiga Corporation headquarters was in nearby Santa Clara, California. During this time, Montgomery worked for Trip Hawkins at video game pioneer Electronic Arts as product manager. Montgomery later credited Hawkins' experience at Apple with the Steve Jobs-like product and marketing strategy Montgomery used at both NewTek and Play. Montgomery met hardware engineer Brad Carvey in a computer store, and upon viewing a demonstration of inventor Tim Jenison's early Amiga experiments, arranged for Carvey and Jenison to meet.\n\nWhen Electronic Arts decided to focus product development efforts on the Apple IIGS computer rather than the Amiga, Montgomery left and moved to Topeka, Kansas to help Jenison build NewTek. At that time, Jenison, Carvey and others were developing a Video Black Box for the Amiga capable of real-time video effects.\n\nUnder Jenison and Montgomery's leadership, this Video Black Box evolved into the Video Toaster. Billed as the \"television studio in-a-box\", the product combined the traditionally separate, dedicated pieces of traditional video production hardware into a single, relatively inexpensive add-on for the Amiga. It included a real-time video switcher, real-time video effects, luma-keyer, character generator, still store, paint software and the Lightwave 3D animation software. The Video Toaster altered the video production industry by proving a personal computer could make high-quality television visuals at a low price point.\n\nMontgomery brought fellow FAUG members Allen Hastings and Stuart Ferguson to NewTek to create Lightwave. Borrowing a slogan from Apple Inc., NewTek was aggressive in promoting Lightwave as the 3D animation software \"for the rest of us\". Lightwave was inexpensive and ran on the Amiga personal computer, while its competition at the time was expensive and ran on dedicated Silicon Graphics workstations. Lightwave was used to create animation and special effects for many television and feature films including \"Babylon 5\", \"Star Trek\" and \"Titanic\".\n\nThe NewTek team was featured in \"USA Today\", \"Time\", \"Newsweek\", \"Forbes\" and \"Fortune\" as well as being dubbed \"revolutionaries\" by Tom Brokaw on \"NBC Nightly News\" and featured as \"the bad boys of video\" in \"Rolling Stone Magazine\". In 1993, the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences awarded Montgomery and the other inventors of the Video Toaster a Primetime Emmy award. That same year, Fortune estimated the privately held company's sales at US$25 million.\n\nTensions began to rise at NewTek between Jenison and Montgomery over technical, marketing and personal issues. Commodore's business was failing, the Amiga platform was at risk, and Jenison was slow to accept a new strategy.\n\nIn 1994, Montgomery and Jenison split. Montgomery left, taking most of NewTek's programmers and some top marketing staff with him. After several months, the group founded Play Incorporated together with Amiga software leader Digital Creations and video hardware developer Progressive Image Technologies, and focused their efforts on the Microsoft Windows platform.\n\nPlay's first product, the Snappy Video Snapshot, was released in April 1995. Snappy was a still-image digitizer which could take video input from a VCR, camcorder, TV or any video source, and capture true-color (24-bit) high-quality digital still images. Snappy was the first mainstream video input device for Windows personal computers, with Play selling over US$25 million of Snappy in its first year. \"Byte\" Magazine awarded Snappy its Technical Excellence award in December 1995, stating \"Every once in a while, we see a product so impressive, it makes us rethink an entire category. That was certainly the case with Play Inc.'s Snappy.\" \n\nPlay's next consumer-oriented product was Gizmos, a suite of utilities, games and multimedia software for Windows personal computers. \"PC Magazine\" said Gizmos was one of the \"Best Products of 1998\".\n\nPlay created Trinity as the next-generation Video Toaster for the Windows personal computer platform. Trinity included real-time 3D video effects, digital component video switcher, chroma-keyer, still and video clip store, character generator, paint system, and non-linear video editor. After several lengthy delays, Trinity shipped in August 1998 to wide critical acclaim. To many in the industry, Trinity became the logical successor to the Video Toaster. Play also acquired 3D animation software developer Electric Image in November 1998. Electric Image animation system was re-launched for both Mac and Windows platforms as Electric Image Universe.\n\nPlay also launched 'Play TV', an online network of shows broadcast from Play headquarters, the San Francisco Bay Area and as far away as Revelstoke B.C. and streamed over the Internet. The network was the first live internet TV network and an early precursor to the internet video revolution.\n\n\"TV Technology\" called Play Incorporated “one of the industry's most aggressive and innovative developers“. Play folded following Montgomery's death, with many employees, including Kiki Stockhammer returning to NewTek, which by then had redirected its efforts also into the Windows platform.\n\nMontgomery's enthusiasm for technology and people helped both NewTek and Play develop a passionate customer base, including high-profile celebrity users. Early users of the Video Toaster included Todd Rundgren, Herbie Hancock, Penn and Teller, U2 and Oingo Boingo. Montgomery's leadership and marketing skills helped NewTek and Play obtain major national press attention for its products, including feature stories on NBC Nightly News and an article in Rolling Stone Magazine. He was the self-proclaimed P.T. Barnum of NewTek.\n\nNewTek and Play both contained employees passionate about Montgomery and the products they created. Wil Wheaton, who briefly moved to Topeka to work for NewTek, called Montgomery \"the soul of NewTek and the soul of Play\" in his book \"Just a Geek\". NewTek employees were often spotted roller blading, playing laser tag, video games and working long hours.\n\nJune 19, 1999 Montgomery died of heart attack while vacationing in Seattle. Montgomery was survived by his wife, Michele, his parents, and siblings.\n"}
{"id": "1932209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932209", "title": "Nanyue", "text": "Nanyue\n\nNanyue (), also called Southern Yue or Nam Viet (; ), was an ancient kingdom that covered parts of northern Vietnam and the modern Chinese provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi, and Yunnan. Nanyue was established by Zhao Tuo, then Commander of Nanhai, in 204 BC after the collapse of the Qin dynasty. At first, it consisted of the commanderies Nanhai, Guilin, and Xiang.\n\nIn 196 BC, Zhao Tuo paid obeisance to the Emperor Gaozu of Han, and Nanyue was referred to by Han leaders as a \"foreign servant\", i.e. a vassal state. Around 183 BC, relations between the Nanyue and the Han dynasty soured, and Zhao Tuo began to refer to himself as an emperor, suggesting Nanyue's sovereignty. In 179 BC, relations between the Han and Nanyue improved, and Zhao Tuo once again made submission, this time to Emperor Wen of Han as a subject state. The submission was somewhat superficial, as Nanyue retained autonomy from the Han, and Zhao Tuo was referred to as \"Emperor\" throughout Nanyue until his death. In 113 BC, fourth-generation leader Zhao Xing sought to have Nanyue formally included as part of the Han Empire. His prime minister Lü Jia objected vehemently and subsequently killed Zhao Xing, installing his elder brother Zhao Jiande on the throne and forcing a confrontation with the Han dynasty. The next year, Emperor Wu of Han sent 100,000 troops to war against Nanyue. By the year's end, the army had destroyed Nanyue and established Han rule. The kingdom lasted 93 years and had five generations of kings.\n\nThe Kingdom of Nanyue's founding preserved the order of the Lingnan region during the chaos surrounding the collapse of the Qin dynasty. It allowed the southern region to avoid much of the hardship experienced by the northern, predominantly Han Chinese regions. The kingdom was founded by leaders originally from the Chinese heartland, and was responsible for bringing Chinese bureaucracy and more advanced agriculture and handicraft techniques to the inhabitants of the southern regions, as well as knowledge of the Chinese language and writing system. Nanyue leaders promoted a policy of \"Harmonizing and Gathering the Hundred Yue Tribes\" (), and encouraged fellow Han Chinese to immigrate from their Yellow River homeland to the south. They supported mutual assimilation of the two cultures and peoples, and promulgated Han culture and the Chinese language throughout the region, though many elements of original Yue culture were preserved.\n\nIn Vietnam, the rulers of Nanyue are referred to as the Triệu dynasty. The name \"Vietnam\" is derived from \"Nam Việt\", the Vietnamese pronunciation of Nanyue.\n\nA detailed history of Nanyue was written in \"Records of the Grand Historian\" by Han dynasty historian Sima Qian. It is mostly contained in section (\"juan\") 113, (\"Ordered Annals of Nanyue\").\n\nAfter Qin Shi Huang conquered the six other Chinese kingdoms of Han, Zhao, Wei, Chu, Yan, and Qi, he turned his attention to the Xiongnu tribes of the north and west and the Hundred Yue peoples of what is now southern China. Around 218 BC, the First Emperor dispatched General Tu Sui with an army of 500,000 Qin soldiers to divide into five companies and attack the Hundred Yue tribes of the Lingnan region. The first company gathered at Yuhan (Modern Yugan County in Jiangxi Province) and attacked the Minyue, defeating them and establishing the Minzhong Commandery. The second company fortified at Nanye (in modern Jiangxi Province's Nankang County), and was designed to put defensive pressure on the southern clans. The third company occupied Panyu. The fourth company garrisoned near the Jiuyi Mountains, and the fifth company garrisoned outside Tancheng (in the southwest part of modern Hunan Province's Jingzhou Miao and Dong Autonomous County). The First Emperor assigned official Shi Lu to oversee supply logistics. Shi first led a regiment of soldiers through the Ling Channel (which connected the Xiang River and the Li River), then navigated through the Yangtze River and Pearl River water systems ensure the safety of the Qin supply routes. The Qin attack of the Western Valley () Yue tribe went smoothly, and Western Valley chieftain Yi-Xu-Song was killed. However, the Western Valley Yue were unwilling to submit to the Qin and fled into the jungle where they selected a new leader to continue resisting the Chinese armies. Later, a night-time counterattack by the Western Valley Yue devastated the Qin troops, and General Tu Sui was killed in the fighting. The Qin suffered heavy losses, and the imperial court selected General Zhao Tuo to assume command of the Chinese army. In 214 BC, the First Emperor dispatched Ren Xiao and Zhao Tuo at the head of reinforcements to once again mount an attack. This time, the Western Valley Yue were completely defeated, and the Lingnan region was brought entirely under Chinese control. In the same year, the Qin court established the Nanhai, Guilin, and Xiang Commanderies, and Ren Xiao was made Lieutenant of Nanhai. Nanhai was further divided into Panyu, Longchuan, Boluo, and Jieyang counties (among several others), and Zhao Tuo was made magistrate of Longchuan.\n\nThe First Emperor died in 210 BC, and his son Zhao Huhai became the Second Emperor of Qin. The following year, soldiers Chen Sheng, Wu Guang, and others seized the opportunity to revolt against the Qin government. Insurrections spread throughout much of China (including those led by Xiang Yu and Liu Bang, who would later face off over the founding of the next dynasty) and the entire Yellow River region devolved into chaos. Soon after the first insurrections, Nanhai Lieutenant Ren Xiao became gravely ill and summoned Zhao Tuo to hear his dying instructions. Ren described the natural advantages of the southern region and described how a kingdom could be founded with the many Chinese settlers in the area to combat the warring groups in the Chinese north. He drafted a decree instating Zhao Tuo as the new Lieutenant of Nanhai, and died soon afterward.\n\nAfter Ren's death, Zhao Tuo, sent orders to his troops in Hengpu Pass (north of modern Nanxiong, Guangdong Province), Yangshan Pass (northern Yangshan County), Huang Stream Pass (modern Yingde region, where the Lian River enters the Bei River), and other garrisons to fortify themselves against any northern troops. He also executed Qin officials still stationed in Nanhai and replaced them with his own trusted friends.\n\nThe kingdom of Âu Lạc laid south of Nanyue in the early years of Nanyue's existence, with Âu Lạc located primarily in the Red River delta area, and Nanyue encompassing Nanhai, Guilin, and Xiang Commanderies. During the time when Nanyue and Âu Lạc co-existed, Âu Lạc acknowledged Nanyue's suzerainty, especially because of their mutual anti-Han sentiment. Zhao Tuo built up and reinforced his army, fearing an attack by the Han. However, when relations between the Han and Nanyue improved, in 179 BC Zhao Tuo marched southward and successfully annexed Âu Lạc.\n\nIn 206 BC the Qin dynasty ceased to exist, and the Yue peoples of Guilin and Xiang were largely independent once more. In 204 BC, Zhao Tuo founded the Kingdom of Nanyue, with Panyu as capital, and declared himself the Martial King of Nanyue (, Vietnamese: \"Nam Việt Vũ Vương\").\n\nLiu Bang, after years of war with his rivals, established the Han dynasty and reunified Central China in 202 BC. The fighting had left many areas of China depopulated and impoverished, and feudal lords continued to rebel while the Xiongnu made frequent incursions into northern Chinese territory. The precarious state of the empire therefore forced the Han court to treat Nanyue initially with utmost circumspection. In 196 BC, Liu Bang, now Emperor Gaozu, sent Lu Jia (陸賈, not to be confused with Lü Jia 呂嘉) to Nanyue in hopes of obtaining Zhao Tuo's allegiance. After arriving, Lu met with Zhao Tuo and is said to have found him dressed in Yue clothing and being greeted after their customs, which enraged him. A long exchange ensued, wherein Lu is said to have admonished Zhao Tuo, pointing out that he was Chinese, not Yue, and should have maintained the dress and decorum of the Chinese and not have forgotten the traditions of his ancestors. Lu lauded the strength of the Han court and warned against a kingdom as small as Nanyue daring to oppose it. He further threatened to kill Zhao's kinsmen in China proper and destroying their ancestral graveyards, as well as coercing the Yue into deposing Zhao himself. Following the threat, Zhao Tuo then decided to receive Emperor Gaozu's seal and submit to Han authority. Trade relations were established at the border between Nanyue and the Han kingdom of Changsha. Although formally a Han subject state, Nanyue seems to have retained a large measure of \"de facto\" autonomy.\n\nAfter the death of Liu Bang in 195 BC, the government was put in the hands of his wife, Empress Lü Zhi, who served as Empress Dowager over their son Emperor Hui of Han and then Emperor Hui's sons Liu Gong and Liu Hong. Enraged, Empress Lü sent men to Zhao Tuo's hometown of Zhending (modern Zhengding County in Hebei Province) who killed much of Zhao's extended family and desecrated the ancestral graveyard there. Zhao Tuo believed that Wu Chen, the Prince of Changsha, had made false accusations against him to get Empress Dowager Lü to block the trade between the states and to prepare to conquer the Nanyue to merge into his principality of Changsha. In revenge, he then declared himself the emperor of Nanyue and attacked the principality of Changsha and captured some neighboring towns under Han domain. Lü sent general Zhou Zao to punish Zhao Tuo. However, in the hot and humid climate of the south, an epidemic broke out quickly amongst the soldiers, and the weakened army was unable to cross the mountains, forcing them to withdraw which ended in Nanyue victory, but the military conflict did not stop until the Empress died. Zhao Tuo then annexed the neighboring state of Minyue in the east as subject kingdom. The kingdom of Yelang and Tongshi (通什) also submitted to Nanyue rule.\nIn 179 BC, Liu Heng ascended the throne as Emperor of the Han. He reversed many of the previous policies of Empress Lü and took a conciliatory attitude toward Zhao Tuo and the Kingdom of Nanyue. He ordered officials to revisit Zhending, garrison the town, and make offerings to Zhao Tuo's ancestors regularly. His prime minister Chen Ping suggested sending Lu Jia to Nanyue as they were familiar with each other. Lu arrived once more in Panyu and delivered a letter from the Emperor emphasizing that Empress Lü's policies were what had caused the hostility between Nanyue and the Han court and brought suffering to the border citizens. Zhao Tuo decided to submit to the Han once again, withdrawing his title of \"emperor\" and reverting to \"king\", and Nanyue became Han's subject state. However, most of the changes were superficial, and Zhao Tuo continued to be referred to as \"emperor\" throughout Nanyue.\n\nIn 137 BC, Zhao Tuo died, having lived over one hundred years. Because of his great age, his son, the Crown Prince Zhao Shi, had preceded him in death, and therefore Zhao Tuo's grandson Zhao Mo became king of Nanyue. In 135 BC, the king of neighboring Minyue launched an attack on the towns along the two nations' borders. Because Zhao Mo hadn't yet consolidated his rule, he was forced to implore Emperor Wu of Han to send troops to Nanyue's aid against what he called \"the rebels of Minyue\". The Emperor lauded Zhao Mo for his vassal loyalty and sent Wang Hui, an official governing ethnic minorities, and agricultural official Han Anguo at the head of an army with orders to separate and attack Minyue from two directions, one from Yuzhang Commandery, and the other from Kuaiji Commandery. Before they reached Minyue, however, the Minyue king was assassinated by his younger brother Yu Shan, who promptly surrendered.\n\nThe Emperor sent court emissary Yan Zhu to the Nanyue capital to give an official report of Minyue's surrender to Zhao Mo, who had Yan return his gratitude to the Emperor along with a promise that Zhao would come visit the Imperial Court in Chang'an, and even sent his son Zhao Yingqi to return with Yan to the Chinese capital. Before the king could ever leave for Chang'an himself, one of his ministers strenuously advised against going for fear that Emperor Wu would find some pretext to prevent him from returning, thus leading to the destruction of Nanyue. King Zhao Mo thereupon feigned illness and never travelled to the Han capital.\n\nImmediately following Minyue's surrender to the Han army, Wang Hui had dispatched man named Tang Meng, local governor of Panyang County, to deliver the news to Zhao Mo. While in Nanyue, Tang Meng was introduced to the Yue custom of eating a sauce made from medlar fruit imported from Shu Commandery. Surprised that such a product was available, he learned that there was a route from Shu (modern Sichuan Province) to Yelang, and then along the Zangke River (the modern Beipan River of Yunnan and Guizhou) which allowed direct access to the Nanyue capital Panyu. Tang Meng thereupon drafted a memorial to Emperor Wu suggesting a gathering of 100,000 elite soldiers at Yelang who would navigate the Zangke River and launch a surprise attack on Nanyue. Emperor Wu agreed with Tang's plan and promoted him to General of Langzhong and had him lead a thousand soldiers with a multitude of provisions and supply carts from Bafu Pass (near modern Hejiang County) into Yelang. Many of the carts carried ceremonial gifts which Yelang presented to the feudal lords of Yelang as bribes to declare allegiance to the Han dynasty, which they did, and Yelang became Qianwei Commandery of the Han Empire.\n\nOver a decade later, Zhao Mo fell genuinely ill and died around 122 BC.\n\nAfter hearing of his father's serious illness, Zhao Yingqi received permission from Emperor Wu to return to Nanyue. After Zhao Mo's death, Yingqi assumed the Nanyue throne. Before leaving for Chang'an he had married a young Yue woman and had his eldest son Zhao Jiande. While in Chang'an, he also married a Han Chinese woman, like himself, who was from Handan. Together they had a son Zhao Xing. After assuming the Nanyue kingship, he petitioned the Han Emperor to appoint his Chinese wife (who was from the Jiu 樛 family) as Queen and Zhao Xing as Crown Prince, a move that eventually brought disaster upon Nanyue. Zhao Yingqi was reputed to be a tyrant who killed citizens with flippant abandon. He died of illness around 113 BC.\n\nZhao Xing succeeded his father as king, and his mother became Queen Dowager. In 113 BC, Emperor Wu of Han sent senior minister Anguo Shaoji to Nanyue summon Zhao Xing and his mother to Chang'an for an audience with the Emperor, as well as two other officials with soldiers to await a response at Guiyang. At the time, Zhao Xing was still young and the Queen Dowager was a recent immigrant to Nanyue, so final authority in matters of state rested in the hands of Prime Minister Lü Jia. Before the Queen Dowager married Zhao Yingqi, it was widely rumored that she had had an affair with Anguo Shaoji, and they were said to have renewed it when he was sent to Nanyue, which caused the Nanyue citizens to lose confidence in her rule.\n\nFearful of losing her position of authority, Queen Dowager Jiu persuaded Zhao Xing and his ministers to fully submit to Han dynasty rule. At the same time, she dispatched a memorial to Emperor Wu requesting that they might join Han China, that they might have an audience with the Emperor every third year, and that the borders between Han China and Nanyue might be dissolved. The Emperor granted her requests and sent Imperial seals to the Prime Minister and other senior officials, symbolizing that the Han court expected to directly control the appointments of senior officials. He also abolished the penal tattooing and nose-removal criminal punishments that were practiced among the Yue and instituted Han legal statutes. Emissaries that had been sent to Nanyue were instructed to remain there to ensure the stability of Han control. Upon receiving their Imperial decrees, King Zhao and the Queen Dowager began planning to leave for Chang'an.\n\nPrime Minister Lü Jia was much older than most officials and had served since the reign of Zhao Xing's grandfather Zhao Mo. His family was the preeminent Yue family in Nanyue and was thoroughly intermarried with the Zhao royal family. He vehemently opposed Nanyue's submission to the Han dynasty and criticized Zhao Xing on numerous occasions, though his outcries were ignored. Lü decided to begin planning a coup and feigned illness to avoid meeting the emissaries of the Han court. The emissaries were well aware of Lü's influence in the kingdom - it easily rivalled that of the king - but were never able to remove him. Sima Qian recorded a story that the Queen Dowager and the Zhao Xing invited Lü to a banquet with several Han emissaries where they hoped to find a chance to kill Lü: during the banquet, the Queen Dowager mentioned that Prime Minister Lu was against Nanyue submitting to the Han dynasty, with the hope that the Han emissaries would become enraged and kill Lü. However, Lü's younger brother had surrounded the palace with armed guards, and the Han emissaries, led by Anguo Shaoji, didn't dare attack Lü. Sensing the danger of the moment, Lü excused himself and stood to leave the palace. The Queen Dowager herself became furious and tried to grab a spear with which to kill the Prime Minister personally, but she was stopped by her son, the king. Lü Jia instructed his brother's armed men to surround his compound and stand guard and feigned illness, refusing to meet with King Zhao or any Han emissaries. At the same time, be began seriously plotting the upcoming coup with other officials.\n\nWhen news of the situation reached Emperor Wu, he dispatched a man named Han Qianqiu with 2,000 officials to Nanyue to wrest control from Lü Jia. In 112 BC the men crossed into Nanyue territory, and Lü Jia finally executed his plan. He and those loyal to him appealed to the citizens that Zhao Xing was but a youth, Queen Dowager Jiu a foreigner who was plotting with the Han emissaries with the intent to turn the country over to Han China, giving over all of Nanyue's treasures to the Han Emperor and selling Yue citizens to the Imperial court as slaves with no thought for the welfare of the Yue people themselves. With the people's support, Lü Jia and his younger brother led a large group of men into the king's palace, killing Zhao Xing, Queen Dowager Jiu, and all the Han emissaries in the capital.\n\nAfter the assassinations of Zhao Xing, the Queen Dowager, and the Han emissaries, Lü Jia ensured that Zhao Jiande, Zhao Yingqi's eldest son by his native Yue wife, took the throne, and quickly sent messengers to spread the news to the feudal rulers and officials of various areas of Nanyue.\n\nThe 2,000 men led by Han Qianqiu began attacking towns along the Han-Nanyue border, and the Yue residents ceased resisting them, instead giving them supplies and safe passage. The group of men advanced quickly through Nanyue territory and were only 40 \"li\" from Panyu when they were ambushed by a regiment of Nanyue soldiers and completely annihilated. Lü Jia then took the imperial tokens of the Han emissaries and placed them in a ceremonial wooden box, then attached to it a fake letter of apology and installed it on the border of Han and Nanyue, along with military reinforcements. When Emperor Wu heard of the coup and Prime Minister Lü's actions, he became enraged. After issuing compensation to the families of the slain emissaries, he decreed the immediate mobilization of an army to attack Nanyue.\n\nIn autumn of 111 BC, Emperor Wu sent an army of 100,000 men divided into five companies to attack Nanyue. The first company was led by General Lu Bode and advanced from Guiyang (modern Lianzhou) down the Huang River (now called the Lian River). The second company was led by Commander Yang Pu and advanced from Yuzhang Commandery (modern Nanchang) through the Hengpu Pass and down the Zhen River. The third and fourth companies were led by Zheng Yan and Tian Jia, both Yue chieftains who had joined the Han dynasty. The third company left from Lingling (modern Yongzhou) and sailed down the Li River, while the fourth company went directly to garrison Cangwu (modern Wuzhou). The fifth company was led by He Yi and was composed mainly of prisoners from Shu and Ba with soldiers from Yelang; they sailed directly down the Zangke River (modern Beipan River). At the same time, Yu Shan, a king of Dong'ou, declared his intention to participate in the Han dynasty's attack on Nanyue and sent 8,000 men to support Yang Pu's company. However, upon reaching Jieyang, they pretended to have encountered severe winds that prevented them from advancing, and secretly sent details of the invasion to Nanyue.\nBy winter of that year, Yang Pu's company had attacked Xunxia and moved on to destroy the northern gates of Panyu (modern Guangzhou), capturing Nanyue's naval fleet and provisions. Seizing the opportunity, they continued south and defeated the first wave of Nanyue defenders before stopping to await the company led by Lu Bode. Lu's forces were mostly convicts freed in exchange for military service and made slow time, so at the planned rendezvous date with Yang Pu only a thousand of Lu's men had arrived. They went ahead with the attack anyway, and Yang's men led the advance into Panyu where Lü Jia and Zhao Jiande had fortified inside the inner walls. Yang Pu set up a camp southeast of the city and, as darkness fell, set the city on fire. Lu Bode encamped the northwest side of the city and sent soldiers up to the walls to encourage the Nanyue soldiers to surrender. As the night passed, more and more Panyu defenders defected to Lu Bode's camp out of desperation, so that as dawn arrived most of the Nanyue soldiers were gone. Lü Jia and Zhao Jiande realized Panyu was lost and fled the city by boat, heading west before the sun rose. Upon interrogating the surrendered soldiers, the Han generals learned of the two Nanyue leaders' escape and sent men after them. Zhao Jiande was caught first, and Lü Jia was captured in what is now northern Vietnam. Based on many temples of Lü Jia (Lữ Gia), his wives and soldiers scattering in Red River Delta of northern Vietnam, the war might last until 98 BC.\n\nAfter the fall of Panyu, Tây Vu Vương (the captain of Tây Vu area of which the center is Cổ Loa) revolted against the First Chinese domination from Western Han dynasty. He was killed by his assistant Hoàng Đồng (黄同).\n\nAfterwards, the other commanderies and counties of Nanyue surrendered to the Han dynasty, ending Nanyue's 93-year existence as an autonomous and mostly sovereign kingdom. When news of Nanyue's defeat reached Emperor Wu, he was staying in Zuoyi County in Shanxi Province while travelling to perform imperial inspections, and promptly created the new county of Wenxi, meaning \"Hearing of Glad News\". After Lü Jia's capture he was executed by the Han soldiers and his head was sent to the emperor. Upon receiving it, he created Huojia County where he was travelling, meaning \"Capturing [Lü] Jia\".\n\nThe Kingdom of Nanyue originally comprised the Qin commanderies of Nanhai, Guilin, and Xiang. After 179 BC, Zhao Tuo persuaded Minyue, Yelang, Tongshi, and other areas to submit to Nanyue rule, but they were not strictly under Nanyue control. After the Western Han dynasty defeated Nanyue, its territory was divided into the seven commanderies of Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaozhi, Jiuzhen, and Rinan. It was traditionally believed that the Qin conquest of the southern regions included the northern half of Vietnam, and that this area was also under Nanyue control. However, scholars have recently stated that the Qin likely never conquered territory in what is now Vietnam, and that Chinese domination there was first accomplished by the Nanyue themselves.\n\nZhao Tuo followed the Commandery-County system of the Qin dynasty when organizing the Kingdom of Nanyue. He left Nanhai Commandery and Guilin Commandery intact, then divided Xiang Commandery into the Jiaozhi and Jiuzhen Commanderies. Nanhai comprised most of modern Guangdong Province, and was divided by the Qin into Panyu, Longchuan, Boluo, and Jieyang Counties, to which Zhao Tuo added Zhenyang and Hankuang.\n\nThe majority of Nanyue's citizens were mainly Yue peoples. The small Chinese minority consisted of descendants of Qin armies sent to conquer the south, as well as young girls who worked as army prostitutes, exiled Qin officials, exiled criminals, and merchants.\n\nThe Yue people were divided into numerous branches, tribes, and clans.\n\nThe Nanyue lived in north, east, and central Guangdong, as well as a small group in east Guangxi.\n\nThe Xi'ou lived in most of Guangxi and western Guangdong, with most of the population concentrated along the Xun River region and areas south of the Gui River, both part of the Xi River watershed. Descendants of Yi-Xu-Song, the chieftain killed resisting the Qin armies, acted as self-imposed governors of the Xi'ou clans. At the time of Nanyue's defeat by the Han dynasty, there were several hundred thousand Xi'ou people in Guilin Commandery alone.\n\nThe Luoyue clans lived in what is now western and southern Guangxi, northern Vietnam, the Leizhou Peninsula, Hainan, and southwest Guizhou. Populations were centered in the Zuo and You watersheds in Guangxi, the Red River Delta in northern Vietnam, and the Pan River watershed in Guizhou. The Chinese name \"Luo\", which denoted a white horse with a black mane, is said to have been applied to them after the Chinese saw their slash-and-burn method of hillside cultivation.\n\nBecause the Kingdom of Nanyue was established by Zhao Tuo, a Chinese general of the Qin dynasty, Nanyue's political and bureaucratic systems were, at first, essentially just continuations of those of the Qin Empire itself. Because of Zhao Tuo's submissions to the Han dynasty, Nanyue also adopted many of the changes enacted by the Han, as well. At the same time, Nanyue enjoyed complete autonomy – and \"de facto\" sovereignty – for most of its existence, so its rulers did enact several systems that were entirely unique to Nanyue.\n\nNanyue was a monarchy, and its head of state generally held the title of \"king\" (), though its first two rulers Zhao Tuo and Zhao Mo were referred to as \"Emperor\" within Nanyue's borders. The kingdom had its own Calendar era system based (like China's) on Emperors' reign periods. Succession in the monarchy was based on hereditary rule, with the King or Emperor's successor designated as crown prince. The ruler's mother was designated empress dowager, his wife as empress or queen, and his concubines as \"Lady\" (). The formalities extended to the ruler's family were on the level of that of the Han dynasty Emperor, rather than that of a feudal king.\n\nAlthough Nanyue continued the Commandery-County system of the Qin dynasty, its leaders later enfeoffed their own feudal princes and lords – a mark of its sovereignty – in a manner similar to that of the Western Han. Imperial documents from Nanyue record that princes were enfeoffed at Cangwu, Xixu, as well as local lords at Gaochang and elsewhere. Zhao Guang, a relative of Zhao Tuo, was made King of Cangwu, and his holdings were what is now Wuzhou in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. In what is considered a manifestation of Zhao Tuo's respect for the Hundred Yue, he enfeoffed a Yue chieftain as King of Xixu in order to allow the Yue of that area to enjoy autonomy under a ruler of their own ethnicity. The chieftain's name is unknown, but he was a descendant of Yi-Xu-Song, the chieftain killed while fighting the original Chinese invasion under the Qin dynasty.\n\nNanyue's bureaucracy was, like the famed bureaucracy of the Qin dynasty, divided into central and regional governments. The central government comprised a prime minister who held military and administrative authority, inner scribes who served under the prime minister, overseeing Censors of various rank and position, commanders of the Imperial Guard, senior officials who carried out the King's official administration, as well as all military officers and officials of the Food, Music, Transportation, Agriculture, and other bureaus.\n\nNanyue enacted several other policies that reflected Chinese dominance, such as the household registration system (an early form of census), as well as the promulgation of the use of Chinese characters among the Hundred Yue population and the use of Chinese weights and measures.\n\nNanyue's army was largely composed of the several hundred thousand (up to 500,000) Qin Chinese troops that invaded during the Qin dynasty and their descendants. After the kingdom's founding in 204 BC, some Yue citizens also joined the army. Nanyue's military officers were known as General, General of the Left, \"Xiao\" (\"Colonel\"), \"Wei\" (\"Captain\"), etc., essentially identical to the Chinese system. The army had infantry, naval troops, and cavalry.\n\nThe Kingdom continued most of the Qin Commanderies' policies and practices dealing with the interactions between the local Yue and the Han immigrants, and Zhao Tuo proactively promoted a policy of assimilating the two cultures into each other. Although the Han were certainly dominant in holding leadership positions, the overwhelming disparity was largest immediately after the Qin conquest. Over time, the Yue gradually began holding more positions of authority in the government. Lü Jia, the last prime minister of the Kingdom, was a Yue citizen, and over 70 of his kinsmen served as officials in various parts of the government. In areas of particular \"complexity\", as they were called, Yue chieftains were often enfeoffed with great autonomy, such as in Xixu. Under the impetus of Zhao Tuo's leadership, Chinese immigrants were encouraged to adopt the customs of the Yue. Marriages between the Han Chinese and Yue became increasingly common throughout Nanyue's existence, and even occurred in the Zhao royal family. Many marriages between the Zhao royal family (who were Han Chinese) and the Lü family (Yue – they likely adopted Chinese names early in Nanyue's history) were recorded. Zhao Jiande, Nanyue's last king, was the son of previous king Zhao Yingqi and his Yue wife. Despite the dominating influence of the Chinese newcomers on the Hundred Yue, the amount of assimilation gradually increased over time.\n\nOther than Old Chinese which was used by Han settlers and government officials, most Nanyue citizens likely spoke Ancient Yue, a now extinct language. Some suggest that the descendants spoke Austroasiatic languages. Others suggest a language related to the modern Zhuang people. It is plausible to say that the Yue spoke more than one language. Old Chinese in the region was likely much influenced by Yue speech (and ), and many loanwords in Chinese have been identified by modern scholars.\n\nRobert Bauer (1987) identifies twenty seven lexical items in Yue, Hakka and Min varieties, which share Tai-Kadai origins. The followings are some examples cited from Bauer (1987):\n\nRobert Bauer (1996) points out twenty nine possible cognates between Cantonese spoken in Guangzhou and Tai-Kadai, of which seven cognates are confirmed to originate from Tai-Kadai sources:\n\nJerry Norman and Mei Tsu-Lin presented evidence that the Yue spoke an Austroasiatic language:\n\n\nHowever, Laurent Sagart has refuted the Norman and Mei hypothesis, demonstrating that the many of the supposed loan words can be better explained as archaic Chinese words, or even loans from Austronesian languages. Yue-Hashimoto describes the Yue Chinese languages spoken in Guangdong as having a Tai influence.\n\nThere is no known evidence of a writing system among the Yue peoples of the Lingnan region in pre-Qin times, and the Chinese conquest of the region is believed to have introduced writing to the area. However, Liang Tingwang, a professor from the Central University of Nationalities, said that the ancient Zhuang had their own proto-writing system but had to give it up because of the Qinshi Emperor's tough policy and to adopt the Han Chinese writing system, which ultimately developed into the old Zhuang demotic script alongside classical Chinese writing system during the Tang dynasty (618-907). Old Chinese seems to have been the language of government, likely because Zhao Tuo and most government officials were Chinese immigrants and not Yue. Archaeological finds at the Tomb of the Nanyue King in Guangzhou, the Nanyue Palace Ruins, and the Luobowan tombs have provided nearly all that is known of Nanyue writing. These sites contained a wide variety of artifacts with writings in several different media. Items from King Zhao Mo's tomb have seal script characters on them, while those from the Palace and Luobowan tend to have clerical script characters.\n\nBeginning with its first allegiance to the Han dynasty in 196 BC, Nanyue alternately went through two periods of allegiance to and then opposition with Han China that continued until Nanyue's destruction at the hands of the Han dynasty in early 111 BC.\n\nThe first period of Nanyue's subordination to the Han dynasty began in 196 BC when Zhao Tuo met Lü Jia, an emissary from Emperor Gaozu of Han, and received from him a Han Imperial seal enthroning Zhao Tuo as King of Nanyue. This period lasted thirteen years until 183 BC, during which time significant trade took place. Nanyue paid tribute in rarities from the south, and the Han court bestowed gifts of iron tools, horses, and cattle upon Nanyue. At the same time, the countries' borders were always heavily guarded.\n\nNanyue's first period of antagonism with the Han dynasty lasted from 183 BC to 179 BC, when trade was suspended and Zhao Tuo severed relations with the Han. During this period, Zhao Tuo openly referred to himself as Emperor and launched an attack against the Kingdom of Changsha, a feudal state of the Han dynasty, and Han troops were sent to engage Nanyue. Nanyue's armies successfully halted the southern progress of the advance, winning the respect and then allegiance of the neighboring kingdoms of Minyue and Yelang.\n\nNanyue's second period of submission to the Han dynasty lasted from 179 BC to 112 BC. This period began with Zhao Tuo abandoning his title of \"Emperor\" and declaring allegiance to the Han Empire, but the submission is mostly superficial as Zhao Tuo was referred to as emperor throughout Nanyue and the kingdom retained its autonomy. Zhao Tuo's four successors did not display the strength he had, and Nanyue dependence on Han China slowly grew, characterized by second king Zhao Mo calling upon Emperor Wu of Han to defend Nanyue from Minyue.\n\nNanyue's final period of antagonism with Han China was the war that proved Nanyue's destruction as a kingdom. At the time of Prime Minister Lü Jia's rebellion, Han China was enjoying a period of growth, economic prosperity, and military success, having consistently defeated the Xiongnu tribes along China's northern and northwestern borders. The weakened state of Nanyue and the strength of China at the time allowed Emperor Wu to unleash a devastating attack on Nanyue, as described above.\n\nChangsha Kingdom was, at the time, a feudal kingdom that was part of Han China. Its territory comprised most of modern Hunan Province and part of Jiangxi Province. When Emperor Gaozu of Han enfeoffed Wu Rui as the first King of Changsha, he also gave him the power to govern Nanhai, Xiang, and Guiling Commanderies, which caused strife between Changsha and Nanyue from the start. The Han China-Nanyue border was essentially that of Changsha, and therefore was constantly fortified on both sides. In terms of policies, because the Kingdom of Changsha had no sovereignty whatsoever, any policy of the Han court toward Nanyue was by default also Changsha's policy.\n\nMinyue was located northeast of Nanyue along China's southeast coast, and comprised much of modern Fujian Province. The Minyue were defeated by the armies of the Qin dynasty in the 3rd century BC and the area was organized under Qin control as the Minzhong Commandery, and Minyue ruler Wuzhu was deposed. Because of Wuzhu's support for Liu Bang after the collapse of the Qin dynasty and the founding of the Han, he was reinstated by the Han court as King of Minyue in 202 BC.\n\nThe relations between Nanyue and Minyue can be classified into three stages: the first, from 196 BC to 183 BC, was during Zhao Tuo's first submission to the Han dynasty, and the two kingdoms were on relatively equal footing. The second stage was from 183 BC to 135 BC, when Minyue submitted to Nanyue after seeing it defeat the Han dynasty's first attack on Nanyue. The third stage began in 135 BC when King Wang Ying attacked a weakened Nanyue, forcing Zhao Mo to seek aid from Han China. Minyue once again submitted to the Han dynasty, making itself and Nanyue equals once more.\n\nThe southwestern Yi people lived west of Nanyue, and shared borders with Nanyue in Yelang, Wulian, Juding, and other regions. Yelang was the largest state of the Yi people, comprising most of modern Guizhou and Yunnan Provinces, as well as the southern part of Sichuan Province. Some believe the ancient Yi to have been related to the Hundred Yue, with this explaining the close relationship between Yelang and Nanyue. After Nanyue first repelled the Han, nearly all of the Yi tribes declared allegiance to Nanyue, and most of them retained that allegiance until Nanyue's demise in 111 BC. During Emperor Wu of Han's final attack on Nanyue, most of the Yi tribes refused to assist in the invasion. One chieftain called Qie-Lan went so far as to openly oppose the move, later killing the emissary sent by the Han to his territory as well as the provincial governor installed in the Qianwei Commandery.\n\nThe Nanyue Kingdom Palace Ruins, located in the city of Guangzhou, covers 15,000 square metres. Excavated in 1995, it contains the remains of the ancient Nanyue palace. In 1996, it was listed as protected National Cultural Property by the Chinese government. Crescent-shaped ponds, Chinese gardens and other Qin architecture were discovered in the excavation.\n\nIn 1983, the ancient tomb of the Nanyue King \"Wáng Mù\" (王墓) was discovered in Guangzhou, Guangdong. In 1988, the Museum of the Mausoleum of the Nanyue King was constructed on this site, to display more than 1,000 excavated artefacts including 500 pieces of Chinese bronzes, 240 pieces of Chinese jade and 246 pieces of metal. In 1996, the Chinese government listed this site as a protected National Heritage Site.\n\nA bronze seal inscribed \"Tư Phố hầu ấn\" (Seal for Captain of Tu Pho County) was uncovered at Thanh Hoa in northern Vietnam during the 1930s. Owing to the similarity to seals found at the tomb of the second king of Nam Viet, this bronze seal is recognized as an official seal of the Nam Viet Kingdom. There were artifacts that were found in which belonged to the Dong Son culture of northern Vietnam. The goods were found buried alongside the tomb of the second king of Nam Viet.\n\nIn Vietnam, the rulers of Nanyue are referred to as the Triệu Dynasty, the Vietnamese pronunciation of the surname . The name \"Vietnam\" is derived from \"Nam Việt\" (Southern Việt), the Vietnamese pronunciation of Nanyue. However, it has also been stated that the name \"Vietnam\" was derived from a combination of Quảng Nam Quốc (the domain of the Nguyen Lords, from whom the Nguyễn dynasty descended) and Đại Việt (which the first emperor of the Nguyễn dynasty, Gia Long, conquered). Qing emperor Jiaqing refused Gia Long's request to change his country's name to Nam Việt, and changed the name instead to Việt Nam. Gia Long's Đại Nam thực lục contains the diplomatic correspondence over the naming.\n\nPeter Bellwood suggested that ethnic Vietnamese are descended from the ancient Yuè of northern Vietnam and western Guangdong. However, the Austroasiatic predecessor of modern Vietnamese language has been proven to originate in modern-day Bolikhamsai Province and Khammouane Province in Laos as well as parts of Nghệ An Province and Quảng Bình Province in Vietnam, rather than in the region north of the Red River delta. Chamberlain demonstrates with textual evidence that many rebel groups during the Tang dynasty originated from the Cả River and subsequently pushed northward to the Red River, linking this to the linguistic shift. Chamberlain demonstrates, based on the concentration of linguistic diversity of Vietic, the lack of any trace of Austroasiatic in relevant ancient records, or in the neighbouring Tai languages, as well as the short time depth of Proto-Vietic, that \"[t]here is no evidence of Vietic, Proto-Việt-Mường or other Austroasiatic speakers living in and around Jiaozhi in the lower Red River basin prior to the 10th or 11th centuries.\" However, John Phan (2010), citing Maspero 1912, Wang 1948, & Miyake 2003, points out the existence of an \"Early Sino-Vietnamese\" layer of loanwords traceable back to Later Han Chinese (25 AD–220 AD), which he claims was spoken in the 2nd century BCE. Ferlus (2009) also demonstrates that Northern Vietic (Việt–Mường) and Central Vietic (Cuoi-Toum) invented from original verbs, rather than borrowed foreign words, lexical items corresponding to innovations like \"trident\", \"oar\", \"pan to cook sticky rice\", & \"pestle\", characteristic of the Dong Son culture, existing in the 1st millennium BCE in the Red River delta.\n\nEvidence gathered by modern Western scholarship indicates that the Dong Son culture were most likely ethnically Li people (a Tai people), Austronesians or both. Citing other scholars (Shafer 1970, Blust 1996, Sagart 2004, Sagart 2005, Ostapirat 2013, Kelley 2013, and Chamberlain), Joachim Schliesinger states that the theory that the Vietnamese language was originally based in the area of the Red River in what is now northern Vietnam has been widely rejected by modern Western scholarship, based on historical records and linguistic evidence. The Red River Delta region is now considered to be originally Tai-speaking, ethnic Li people in particular. The area is believed to have become Vietnamese-speaking as late as the tenth century, as a result of immigration from the south, i.e., modern central Vietnam.\n\nZhao Tuo wrote that he only considered his native subjects to be \"barbarians\". Vietnamese historian Ngô Thì Sĩ (1726-1780) refused to consider Zhao Tuo as a Vietnamese leader, saying that he was based in Panyu (Guangzhou), and only ruled the Red River indirectly. He compared this to the example of Liu Yan's Southern Han dynasty in Guangzhou.\n\nThere is evidence that Chinese rulers of the Red River delta, during the medieval ages, tried to invent an origin of their own (the legendary Hồng Bàng dynasty) based on ancient Chinese texts, which recorded the movements of Tai-Kadai speaking peoples across the region of South China.\n\nThere was a fusion of the Han and Yue cultures in significant ways, as shown by the artifacts unearthed by archaeologists from the tomb of King Zhao Mo in Guangzhou. The imperial Nanyue tomb in Guangzhou is extremely rich. There are quite a number of bronzes that show cultural influences from the Han, Chu, Yue and Ordos regions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932212", "title": "Plaque Attack", "text": "Plaque Attack\n\nPlaque Attack is a 1983 video game for the Atari 2600 that was made by Activision. The player must shoot food to protect teeth inside a person's mouth. Steve Cartwright, who designed the game, said that game was meant to help people develop good dental habits.\n\nIn this game, the player is a tube of toothpaste, defending teeth against various types of food, such as hamburgers and french fries. The objective is to fire toothpaste at food intent on destroying the teeth. If the food touches a tooth, it begins breaking down the tooth. If the player is fast enough to shoot the piece of food as soon as it starts breaking down the tooth the player will be able to save the tooth. If not, the tooth will decay and disappears from the screen. The food comes in waves, and the movements become more complicated. Destroying the food scores points, as does the number of teeth left at the end of each wave, and the amount of toothpaste\n\nAfter a certain number of points is scored, users gain bonus teeth. Bonus teeth are applied at the end of each wave. If all eight teeth are still present, the additional teeth will be placed on the sides of the mouth. Otherwise the teeth will replace any teeth lost. Play continues until all the teeth are gone, at which point the game is over.\n\n\"Plaque Attack\" players who scored more than 35,000 points could send a screenshot of their accomplishment to Activision to receive a \"No Plaque Pack\" patch and congratulatory letter.\n\n\"Videogaming Illustrated\" described the game as \"cute and busy, but nothing more\" and gave it B-B+ for gameplay. \"Video Games\" magazine described it, in their review, as \"another slide and shoot\". \n\n"}
{"id": "1932223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932223", "title": "Thomas Ingersoll", "text": "Thomas Ingersoll\n\nThomas Ingersoll (1749–1812) was an early settler in Upper Canada, later Ontario. He is best known as the father of Laura Secord, who warned the British of an impending American attack on Upper Canada during the War of 1812.\n\nHe was born in Westfield, Massachusetts, later moving to Great Barrington where, aside from his trade as a hatter, he also served as constable and tax collector. In 1775, he married Elizabeth Dewey. He served as a lieutenant in the American militia from 1777 to 1781 and continued to serve in the Great Barrington militia after the American Revolution, reaching the rank of major. After the death of his first wife in 1784, when Laura (his eldest daughter) was eight, he married Mercy Smith, the widow of Josiah Smith. After the death of his second wife, he married Sarah Whiting, the widow of John Backus, in 1789.\n\nIngersoll emigrated to Upper Canada after hearing about the availability of land there for new settlers. In 1793, he obtained a land grant of 66,000 acres (267 km²) in Oxford County from Governor John Graves Simcoe. He named the new settlement Oxford-on-the-Thames. Ingersoll was named a justice of the peace for the county.\n\nBy November 1795, Ingersoll had once again uprooted, moving to Queenston, Upper Canada and operating one of the earliest taverns before putting it up for sale in 1801.\n\nIn 1806, he left the settlement at Oxford-on-the-Thames and settled on the Credit River near Port Credit, operating \"Government House\" until his death in 1812.\n\nHis son Charles renamed Oxford-on-the-Thames \"Ingersoll\" in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932224", "title": "Belarus Olympic Committee", "text": "Belarus Olympic Committee\n\nThe National Olympic Committee of the Republic of Belarus (Russian: Национальный олимпийский комитет Республики Беларусь, Belarusian: Нацыянальны алімпійскі камітэт Рэспублікі Беларусь) is one of many national Olympic committees that make up the International Olympic Committee. Created in 1991, the NOC RB (), is charged with selecting athletes to represent Belarus in the Summer and Winter Olympic Games, enforcing anti-doping laws and promote sporting activity inside Belarus. The current president of the NOC RB is Alexander Lukashenko, the current President of Belarus.\n\nThe NOC RB was established on March 22, 1991, in response to the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Until that event, Belarus and the other fourteen Soviet Socialist Republics' Olympic activity were controlled by the Olympic Committee of the USSR, which did not disband until 1992. During that same year, Belarus competed in the 1992 Summer and Winter Olympics as part of the Unified Team. Granted temporary membership in 1992, the NOC RB was not granted full membership until the 101st International Olympic Committee Session in the year 1993. Also in 1993, Vladimir Ryzhenkov, who was at the time the Belarus Minister for Sport and Tourism, was elected to the post of President of the NOC RB. Ryzhenkov held the position until his death in 1996, but was replaced in 1997 with Alexander Lukashenko. In Lukashenko's first speech as NOC RB president, he stated there were no other examples of a head of state serving as a NOC Chairman or President at the same time. From 2005 to 2015 George Katulin served as a secretary general of NOC RB.\n\nThe Belarusian National Federations are the organizations that coordinate all aspects of their individual sports. They are responsible for training, competition and development of their sports. There are currently 36 Olympic Summer and 8 Winter Sport Federations in Belarus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932227", "title": "A. J. Allmendinger", "text": "A. J. Allmendinger\n\nAnthony James \"A. J.\" Allmendinger (born December 16, 1981) is an American professional racing driver who is currently an analyst for IMSA on NBC and \"NASCAR America\". He also competes part-time in the NASCAR Xfinity Series, driving the No. 16 Chevrolet Camaro for Kaulig Racing. He earned five wins and third place overall in the 2006 Champ Car season. Afterwards, he began competing in NASCAR. Moreover, he has competed in the 24 Hours of Daytona since the 2006 edition for Michael Shank's team, finishing first in 2012, second in 2006 and third in 2013.\n\nAllmendinger was born in Santa Clara but raised in Los Gatos, both are suburbs of the San Francisco Bay area. Allmendinger was married to Canadian model and 2003 Miss Molson Indy Canada Lynne Kushnirenko in January 2007, but filed for divorce in 2012.\n\nAllmendinger started his career in karts, winning two International Kart Federation Grand National championships.\n\nHe also raced in New Zealand in 2002 in the New Zealand Formula Ford Championship.\n\nAllmendinger won the Barber Dodge Pro Series championship in 2002, and the Champ Car Atlantic Championship in 2003 with Carl Russo's RuSport team.\n\nIn 2004, Allmendinger and RuSport entered the Champ Car World Series, with Michel Jourdain Jr. joining Allmendinger. He scored a run of six top-six finishes towards the end of the season and won the Roshfrans Rookie-of-the-Year Award ahead of Justin Wilson. Wilson joined the team for 2005, with both drivers having been in regular contention for podium finishes.\n\nOn June 9, 2006, RuSport announced that Allmendinger would be replaced by 2002 CART champion Cristiano da Matta. Five days later, Forsythe Championship Racing announced Allmendinger as their new driver, replacing Mario Domínguez. In the interim, he became engaged to Lynne Kushnirenko, a Canadian model and chiropractor. In his first race with Forsythe, Allmendinger won the Grand Prix of Portland. Allmendinger became the first American to win a Champ Car World Series event since Ryan Hunter-Reay won at the Milwaukee Mile in 2004. This began a three-race winning streak that included wins at the Grand Prix of Cleveland and the Grand Prix of Toronto. This victory moved Allmendinger into second place in the CCWS championship standings, behind leader Sébastien Bourdais.\n\nHe chalked up his fourth and fifth wins of the season at Denver and Road America. He left Champ Car with one race left in the season to accept a lucrative offer from the NASCAR operation Team Red Bull.\n\nRed Bull officially announced Allmendinger as part of its driver lineup October 25, 2006. He made his NASCAR debut in the Craftsman Truck Series driving for Bill Davis Racing at New Hampshire International Speedway on September 16, 2006, in the No. 24 Toyota Tundra. He crashed his primary truck in qualifying but started the race 32nd in a backup truck from teammate Bill Lester and finished on the lead lap in 13th. He also competed at the Talladega Superspeedway in October with a finish of fifth. In his third career truck series start, he qualified in second place at Atlanta and led five laps before he wrecked and finished 34th.\n\nAllmendinger attempted his first Nextel Cup Series event at Atlanta in October 2006 driving the No. 84 Red Bull Dodge Charger; however, due to qualifying being rained out, a lack of owner's points prevented Allmendinger from making the race. He also attempted to make the race at Texas Motor Speedway, failing to qualify again. Allmendinger and Brian Vickers were named Red Bull's drivers for 2007, with Allmendinger piloting the team's No. 84 Toyota Camry with Vickers in the team's No. 83.\n\nAllmendinger failed to qualify for the 2007 Daytona 500 after a crash in the first Gatorade Duel race. He also failed to qualify for the next four races before making his first Cup start at the Food City 500 at Bristol. As the season progressed, Allmendinger made a handful of races, predominantly in the \"Car of Tomorrow\". To assist him in the transition to stock cars, he participated in selected Craftsman Truck Series races in a Toyota for the Darrell Waltrip Motorsports organization, and in the No. 42 Memorex/Chip Ganassi Dodge in the Busch Series.\n\nAllmendinger again failed to qualify for the 2008 Daytona 500. After three failures to qualify in two attempts (qualifying for the second race of the season, Fontana, was rained out and set by 2007 owner's points), he was replaced by veteran driver Mike Skinner on a temporary basis. Allmendinger returned to the Cup Series at Talladega. On May 17, he won the Sprint Showdown at Lowe's Motor Speedway during NASCAR's annual All-Star weekend. The win qualified Allmendinger for the Sprint All-Star Race later that evening, where he finished 17th. Due to Allmendinger's 11th-place finish at Watkins Glen, for the first time in his career, he had a guaranteed starting spot for the next race. He had his best career finish at the time at Kansas Speedway coming in ninth, but was released from the team two days later. He was replaced for the rest of the season by Scott Speed and Skinner.\n\nAfter signing a one-race contract with Michael Waltrip Racing, Allmendinger replaced fellow former open-wheel star Patrick Carpentier at Gillett Evernham Motorsports, scoring an average finish of 15.4th over five races in the team's No. 10 Valvoline Dodge. During the offseason, as part of the merger between GEM and Petty Enterprises, Allmendinger was to move to the No. 19 Best Buy Dodge replacing Elliott Sadler. However, Sadler was still under contract for the 2010 season and announced he would file suit against Allmendinger and the organization. In early January 2009, Richard Petty Motorsports announced a settlement where Sadler would remain in the No. 19 and Allmendinger would return to his 2008 team, which was renumbered 44. However, Valvoline did not commit to sponsoring the team full-time and they were forced to race without full-time sponsorship.\nAllmendinger's team ended the 2008 season 36th in owner's points, meaning it did not have exemptions for the first five races of 2009. The retro-styled Valvoline 44 raced its way into the Daytona 500, and third in his Daytona 500 debut, also his personal best, and is the fourth best Daytona 500 debut behind Lee Petty in the 1959 Daytona 500, Scott Wimmer in the 2004 Daytona 500 and Trevor Bayne in the 2011 Daytona 500. Allmendinger was one of two go-or-go-home drivers (the other being Tony Stewart, but Stewart had the past champion's provisional available) to successfully attempt the first five races of the 2009 season.\n\nAt 1:27 am on October 29, 2009, Allmendinger was arrested for drunk driving by Mooresville, North Carolina police. He registered a .08 blood alcohol level according to a police report. NASCAR placed him on probation for the rest of the 2009 season.\nAllmendinger drove a Ford Fusion in the final three races of the season as part of RPM's transition from Dodge to Ford.\n\nDuring the offseason, Allmendinger replaced Reed Sorenson in the team's famous No. 43 car. He collected two top-fives, eight top-10s and a pole position in 2010, and finished 19th in the final standings.\n\nAfter finishing 11th in the 2011 Daytona 500, Allmendinger started the season 10th in points driving the No. 43 Ford sponsored by Best Buy. Allmendinger continued to have a career best year in 2011 with 10 top-10 finishes and an average finish of 16th. He finished the 2011 regular season contending for a wild card spot in the Chase for the Sprint Cup but came up just short. Three races prior to setting the field for the Chase, RPM put former Roush Fenway Racing crew chief Greg Erwin on the pit box starting at the 2011 Brickyard 400. Allmendinger and Erwin recorded six top-10 finishes after their pairing. Allmendinger finished the 2011 season a career best 15th in the points. Allmendinger also announced that he would have a partnership stake in Mike Shank's IndyCar team MSR Indy.\n\nAt the end of the 2011 season, Allmendinger left Richard Petty Motorsports when the driving spot for Penske Racing's No. 22 Shell/Pennzoil Dodge became open after the parting ways of Kurt Busch and Penske. Prior to his suspension, his best finish was a second at Martinsville Speedway.\n\nOn January 28 and 29, 2012, Allmendinger entered the Rolex 24 driving for Michael Shank Racing and drove the final segment of the 24-hour race to the victory for the team in the Daytona Prototype Division. His teammates were Justin Wilson, John Pew, and Oswaldo Negri. To do so, he had to fend off sports car racing veteran Allan McNish among others.\n\nAfter failing a random drug test on July 7, 2012, Allmendinger was suspended from participation in the Coke Zero 400. Steve O'Donnell, NASCAR's senior vice president for racing operations, said that Allmendinger had up to 72 hours to request a \"B\" test sample. The next day, Penske said before the Honda Indy Toronto race that Allmendinger's \"B\" sample would be tested on Monday or Tuesday. Allmendinger requested a \"B\" sample test on July 9. On July 11, 2012, Allmendinger's camp said a stimulant caused the positive drug test. The \"B\" sample test had not yet been scheduled at that time.\n\nOn July 24, it was announced by NASCAR that Allmendinger was suspended indefinitely after the \"B\" sample tested positive for a banned stimulant, which was revealed to be amphetamine. He chose to participate in the Road to Recovery program. On August 1, he was released from his contract by Penske Racing. Allmendinger was replaced in the No. 22 by Sam Hornish, Jr.; he later stated that the cause of the positive test was Adderall that he had unknowingly taken, being told it was an \"energy pill\". Allmendinger was reinstated by NASCAR on September 18 after completing the Road to Recovery program.\n\nIn October 2012, Allmendinger returned to NASCAR at Charlotte Motor Speedway, driving for Phoenix Racing, substituting for Phoenix's intended driver Regan Smith, who had been hired by Hendrick Motorsports to drive the No. 88 for Charlotte and Kansas while Dale Earnhardt, Jr. was sidelined with a concussion.\n\nIt was reported in late 2012 that Allmendinger could move to the IndyCar Series with Michael Shank Racing, which he co-owned, for the 2013 season. This failed to materialize; instead, Allmendinger signed with Phoenix Racing to run a limited schedule in the Sprint Cup Series in the No. 51 Chevrolet; in addition, he participated in IndyCar's winter testing with Team Penske, and in March it was announced that Allmendinger would compete in the IndyCar series for the team in at least two races, at Barber Motorsports Park and at the 2013 Indianapolis 500. This was extended to include the Long Beach Grand Prix and the Chevy Indy Dual in Detroit.\n\nOn June 1, 2013, Roger Penske announced that Allmendinger would drive for his team at Road America and the Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course. In his first race of the season, the Johnsonville Sausage 200 on June 22, he won after winning the pole position and leading 29 laps, which was the most of any driver. At Mid-Ohio in August, Allmendinger dominated the race, saving fuel through a green-white-checkered finish to win and sweep the year's Nationwide Series road-course races for Penske Racing.\n\nAllmendinger drove part-time for Phoenix Racing in the No. 51 Chevrolet in the Sprint Cup Series. He had several strong finishes in the first part of the season: 11th at Phoenix, 13th at Bristol, 16th at Fontana, and 14th at Richmond. His first finish worse than 20th was at Pocono, where he finished 33rd. Afterwards, Allmendinger moved to the No. 47 Toyota at JTG Daugherty Racing in place of Bobby Labonte for two races, with a 19th-place finish at Michigan and 22nd-place finish at Kentucky. At Daytona, Allmendinger returned to the No. 51 and was running near the top-ten for almost the entire night until lap 148, when he was part of a wreck in the tri-oval with Denny Hamlin, Jeff Gordon, Matt Kenseth, and David Reutimann, reducing Allmendinger to a 35th-place finish.\n\nReturning to the No. 47 at Watkins Glen, Allmendinger had another breakout run, qualifying fourth, and running in the top-fifteen for the most of the day, finishing in 10th place.\n\nOn August 29, 2013, the \"Sporting News\" reported that Allmendinger would be the full-time driver for JTG Daugherty Racing in 2014. This was confirmed a month later with Allmendinger signing a multi-year deal with the team.\n\nAllmendinger had a few poor opening races, but did well at Fontana, recovering from a late speeding penalty to finish eighth, as well as having top-tens at Richmond and Talladega.\n\nAt Sonoma, Allmendinger qualified on the front row with Jamie McMurray. Allmendinger led the most laps and was in position to possibly earn his first Sprint Cup victory when he was wrecked by Dale Earnhardt Jr. with 35 laps to go. Allmendinger was visibly upset with Earnhardt Jr. in post-race ceremonies.\n\nAt Watkins Glen, Allmendinger took the lead with less than 30 laps to go after a side-by-side battle with former teammate Marcos Ambrose and kept the lead until the checkered flag, earning his first Sprint Cup Series win after 213 Sprint Cup starts, leading 30 laps in the process. \"My gosh, I can't believe we won a NASCAR Sprint Cup race. This whole 47 team... all the sponsors, my first Cup victory. I love these guys. I just wanted it so bad for them. For this team. They worked so hard. I wasn't going to let Marcos take that from me. I hope the fans loved that race and at home. Because it was fun in the race car.\" Ambrose commented on Allmendinger's win: \"First of all, congratulations to A. J. and the 47 team. They deserved that win. I left nothing on the table. I tried to rattle his cage and couldn't shake him. We raced fair and square to the end there. It was a tough couple laps but it was fair. We were both giving it to each other pretty hard. No harm, no foul. We just came up a little short.\" Before the race, Allmendinger had announced that Kimberly-Clark Corporation (consisting of Scott, Viva, Kleenex, Cottonelle and Huggies brands) extended its sponsorship agreement with the team through 2017.\n\nOn January 4, 2014, it was announced that Allmendinger would return to Michael Shank Racing for the 24 Hours of Daytona. Co-driving with John Pew, Oswaldo Negri, Jr. and Justin Wilson, the team finished 47th overall, 12th in the Prototype class.\n\nThough NASCAR expanded the grid of the Sprint Unlimited to include all the Chase drivers, Allmendinger declined the invitation saying he wanted to save his equipment for the points races such as the Daytona 500. Instead, he joined the Motor Racing Network's radio broadcast of the race, working in the booth alongside Joe Moore and Jeff Striegle.\n\nAllmendinger got his season off to a good start, leading a few laps during the Daytona 500. The next week at Atlanta, he finished seventh and sixth one week later at Las Vegas. On May 9, 2015, Allmendinger announced plans to sign a five-year contract extension with JTG Daugherty, allowing him to remain with the team through the 2020 season.\n\nAllmendinger nearly pulled off an upset at the 2016 STP 500 at Martinsville. He charged hard from 13th place with less than 20 laps to go, to finish second to Kyle Busch by 1.547 seconds. It tied 2012 as his career-best finish at Martinsville. Allmendinger ended the season on a high note earning four top tens on the final 6 races and finishing 19th in the standings.\n\nOn June 8, 2016, Richard Childress Racing announced plans to add Allmendinger to their Xfinity Series driver lineup, hiring him to drive the No. 2 Chevrolet Camaro at Mid-Ohio; however, Allmendinger had a schedule conflict and Sam Hornish Jr. drove the race instead.\n\nAllmendinger started the 2017 season at Daytona by finishing in third place, equalling his best career finish in the event. At Talladega, Allmendinger was caught in a multi-car accident while running third with 19 laps to go. Allmendinger got loose drafting Chase Elliott, causing Allmendinger's car to spin out and eventually flip over. At Watkins Glen, Allmendinger ran well enough to be the highest-finishing Chevrolet in the race, placing ninth.\n\nAllmendinger opened the 2018 season with a top-ten finish in the Daytona 500 and later had an eighth-place finish at the STP 500. In May, Allmendinger won the Monster Energy Open, the second time he had taken victory in the race.\n\nOn September 25, 2018, it was announced that Allmendinger, despite having two years left on his contract from 2015, would part ways with JTG at the end of the 2018 season, ending a long-time relationship with the team.\n\nOn March 21, 2019, Kaulig Racing announced Allmendinger would join the team's No. 10 car for a part-time Xfinity Series schedule. His schedule was originally a four-race slate beginning in July at Daytona, followed by the road course events at Mid-Ohio, Road America, and the Charlotte Motor Speedway Roval. In the 2019 Circle K Firecracker 250 at Daytona, Allmendinger finished third, but was disqualified and relegated to last place after his car failed an engine vacuum test during post-race inspection.\n\nOn July 17, Kaulig announced that Allmendinger would add a fifth race to his schedule: the 2019 Zippo 200 at The Glen at Watkins Glen International on August 3, 2019. He was once again disqualified when his second-place finishing car was discovered to be too low on both rear corners during post-race inspection.\n\nAt his final start of the year at the Charlotte Roval, he picked up his first win of the season and third of his Xfinity Series career, beating out RCR driver Tyler Reddick.\n\nA few weeks after his Roval win, Chris Rice, the team president of Kaulig Racing, stated in an interview that Allmendinger would tentatively return to the team to drive for them in all of the Xfinity Series road course races (Mid-Ohio, Watkins Glen, Road America, and the Charlotte Roval) again. In addition to those four races, he did say he could likely run the new race for the series at Martinsville, a track that Allmendinger has historically performed well at over the course of his NASCAR career. Allmendinger will be in the No. 16 in 2020, Kaulig's part-time third car, because the No. 10, which he drove in 2019, will now be driven full-time by Ross Chastain. On January 30, 2020, Kaulig Racing announced Allmendinger would appear in eight races, which include Daytona International Speedway, Talladega Superspeedway, Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course, Indianapolis Motor Speedway, Road America, Watkins Glen, and the ROVAL at Charlotte Motor Speedway, where he is the defending race winner.\n\nAllmendinger first ventured into television with Fox Sports' \"NASCAR Race Hub\", serving as a recurring driver analyst while still racing full-time for JTG Daugherty Racing. On December 19, 2018, NBC Sports announced plans to hire Allmendinger as an analyst for their IMSA Sports Car coverage. He would also be a contributor to NBCSN's \"NASCAR America\". \n\nAdditionally, Allmendinger joined NBCSN's coverage of American Flat Track as an analyst for the 2019 season. In July 2019, Allmendinger joined the \"IndyCar Series on NBC\" booth for the Iowa Speedway event, working alongside Leigh Diffey and Paul Tracy.\n\n Season still in progress.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "1932228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932228", "title": "Handset", "text": "Handset\n\nA handset is a component of a telephone that a user holds to the ear and mouth to receive audio through the receiver and speak to the remote party via the built-in transmitter.\n\nIn earlier telephones the transmitter was mounted directly on the telephone itself, which was attached to a wall at a convenient height or affixed to a desk stand.\n\nUntil the advent of the cordless telephone, the handset was usually wired to the base unit, typically by a flexible tinsel wire.\n\nThe handset of a cordless telephone contains a radio transceiver which relays communication via a base station that is wired to the telephone line. A mobile phone does not require a base station and communicates directly with a cell site in specially designated frequency bands.\n\nA graphic symbol that designates a handset is used on cordless and mobile phones to specify placing or ending a telephone call. Usually a button with green upright (off-hook) handset icon is used for starting a call, and a red lying-down (on-hook) handset is used for ending a call. Unicode provides the symbol.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932236", "title": "Genichiro Tenryu", "text": "Genichiro Tenryu\n\n, better known as is a retired Japanese professional wrestler and professional wrestling promoter. At age 13, he entered sumo wrestling and stayed there for 13 years, after which he turned to Western-style professional wrestling. \"Tenryu\" was his \"shikona\". He had two stints with All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW), where he spent the majority of his career while also promoting Super World of Sports (SWS), Wrestle Association R (WAR) and Tenryu Project. At the time of his retirement, professional wrestling journalist and historian Dave Meltzer wrote that \"one could make a strong case [that Tenryu was] between the fourth and sixth biggest native star\" in the history of Japanese professional wrestling.\n\nAs a sumo wrestler, Tenryu was ranked as a \"sekitori\" for 27 tournaments, 16 of them in the top \"makuuchi\" division. His highest rank was \"maegashira\" 1. Upon the death of his stablemaster at Nishonoseki stable he wanted to join former stablemate Daikirin's newly established Oshiogawa stable, which had just broken off from Nishonoseki, but the Japan Sumo Association insisted he stay at Nishonoseki whose new stablemaster, Kongō, he did not get along with. He finished one more tournament, and even though his career still showed promise, he decided to leave the sumo world at the young age of 26 in September 1976.\n\nScouted by Giant Baba, the All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW) owner, Tenryu was sent to Amarillo, Texas to be trained by Dory Funk Jr. and Terry Funk, and debuted in Texas in 1976, against Ted DiBiase. After returning to Japan, he stayed in the undercard until about 1982 when he began to get a slight push in that year's Champion Carnival tournament. In 1983, following a brief stint in Jim Crockett Promotions, his push began in earnest when Jumbo Tsuruta pursued the NWA International heavyweight title, now the main title in the Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship.\n\n1984 saw Tenryu winning the NWA United National title, now also part of the Triple Crown, as well as the NWA International tag team title with Tsuruta. Their combination was called \"Kakuryu\" ( = \"kaku\" = \"tsuru\" (the \"tsuru\" in Tsuruta) + = \"ryū\" in Tenryū). The team feuded with Riki Choshu and Yoshiaki Yatsu, who were the leaders in an \"invasion\" angle by the Japan Pro Wrestling promotion, an All Japan satellite made up of former New Japan Pro-Wrestling talent.\n\nIn 1987, following the departure of the Japan Pro talent, Kakuryu broke up after losing the tag team titles to The Road Warriors, which led to Tenryu forming his own stable, \"Revolution\", with former International Pro Wrestling wrestlers Ashura Hara and Hiromichi Fuyuki, as well as All Japan rookies Toshiaki Kawada, and Yoshinari Ogawa; Tatsumi Kitahara would join the group upon his debut in 1988. Tenryu and Hara feuded with Tsuruta and his new partner Yatsu over the Pacific Wrestling Federation World tag team titles and later with their replacement, the World Tag Team Championship (a combination of the PWF World and NWA International tag belts). Hara was kicked out of the promotion in late 1988, and Tenryu replaced him with Stan Hansen, with whom he held the World Tag Team Championship as well.\n\n1989 was Tenryu's banner year. Tsuruta became the first Triple Crown champion on April 18 of that year, and just two days later Tenryu became his first challenger. The Tsuruta-Tenryu series that ensued set the standard for all Triple Crown matches and feuds to follow. When Tenryu won the belts on June 5, the match was so spectacular it was deemed Match of the Year by major Japanese publications. The same year saw him finally pin his mentor Baba, albeit in a tag match - but still a major success for a Japanese wrestler. Only Mitsuharu Misawa would duplicate this feat. In addition, Tenryu was chosen to be one-third of the NWA World 6-Man Tag Team Champions with the Road Warriors after the Road Warriors turned heel against their former co-holder of the title, Dusty Rhodes. However, the relationship between All Japan Pro Wrestling and the NWA was significantly strained when Tenryu and the Road Warriors were scheduled to compete in a match Baba had advertised to his Japanese audience, but American booking decisions prevented the match from taking place. This created an uncomfortable situation where Giant Baba had to apologize to his Japanese audience for a match he had promoted not taking place, and was a key factor in All Japan Pro Wrestling's ultimate withdrawal from the NWA. This also resulted in the six man championship being vacated and abandoned until 1991, when it was temporarily resurrected as a World Championship Wrestling championship.\n\nTenryu's most high-profile North American match was for the World Wrestling Federation in 1991 at WrestleMania VII, where he teamed with Koji Kitao to defeat Demolition. He also appeared in both the 1993 Royal Rumble and 1994 Royal Rumble; in the latter he made it to the final five but was eliminated by eventual co-winners Lex Luger and Bret Hart. An angle had he and The Great Kabuki hired as mercenaries by Yokozuna's manager, Mr. Fuji, to attack Luger and prevent him from winning.\n\nIn April 1990, Tenryu left All Japan to form Super World of Sports (SWS). After its collapse in June 1992, Tenryu, aided by Masatomo Takei (brother of his wife Makiyo) formed Wrestling and Romance (WAR). WAR became his base from where he would take on top wrestlers from other promotions, such as Atsushi Onita, Nobuhiko Takada, The Great Muta, Shinya Hashimoto and Masahiro Chono, all of whom he defeated. He also traded victories with Tatsumi Fujinami and Antonio Inoki, thus becoming the only Japanese wrestler to defeat both Inoki and Baba by pinfall.\n\nIn 1998, as WAR went into decline, Tenryu began an earnest comeback, this time in New Japan. He first joined Heisei Ishingun, allied with its leader Shiro Koshinaka, and they won the IWGP Tag Team Championship from Team Wolf, Masahiro Chono and Hiroyoshi Tenzan. In December 1999, Tenryu made history as the first native to win the top two distinctions of professional wrestling in Japan (All Japan's Triple Crown and New Japan's IWGP Heavyweight title) by beating Mutoh for the IWGP title. (The first man to win both titles was Big Van Vader, an American.)\n\nIn 2000, following the near-collapse of All Japan due to the Pro Wrestling Noah split, Tenryu closed WAR and rejoined All Japan, eager to test his mettle against the remaining ace, his former disciple Kawada. Tenryu beat Kawada in the subsequent tournament for the vacant Triple Crown, winning the belts for a second time. In his second stay in All Japan, he would capture the belts a third time and also the World Tag Team Championship with former WAR-UWFI feud rival Yoji Anjo.\n\nIn 2003, he joined Fighting World of Japan Pro Wrestling for a few matches, but as it declined rapidly, he switched back and forth aimlessly between New Japan and All Japan.\n\nIn 2005, he entered Noah, and began feuds with Misawa, Kenta Kobashi, and other wrestlers he knew from his first All Japan stint, as well as new faces he's never met in the ring before, such as Jun Akiyama. Tenryu has also been with the HUSTLE promotion and was a part of the main heel group led by Generalissimo Takada. During this time, he teamed with Toshiaki Kawada mainly. At HUSTLE Aid 2007, however, Tenryu was defeated by Razor Ramon HG and joined the main face group led by Razor Ramon HG, HUSTLE Army.\n\nIn December 2009, following the folding of Hustle, Tenryu began running his own Tenryu Project promotion. He still makes forays into other promotions, still active even past age 60.\n\nOn February 7, 2015, it was reported that Tenryu had decided to retire from professional wrestling with his final match scheduled to take place later in the year. Tenryu held a press conference two days later to confirm the report, announcing that his retirement event would be taking place in November and would feature participation from All Japan, New Japan and Noah. On August 16, Tenryu made a surprise return to New Japan, having a confrontation with Kazuchika Okada to set up his retirement match on November 15. In the meantime, he embarked on a multipromotional \"Retirement Road\" tour, including matches in Kyushu Pro Wrestling, DDT, BJW, Wrestle-1 and Pro Wrestling FREEDOMS. On November 15, Tenryu was defeated by Okada in his retirement match. \"Tokyo Sports\" named Tenryu's retirement match the 2015 Match of the Year.\n\nTenryu appears as a gang member in the 2017 video game \"Yakuza Kiwami 2\", alongside Keiji Mutoh, Masahiro Chono, Riki Choshu and Tatsumi Fujinami.\nTenryu is also a regular guest on the annual 24-hour comedy special, Gaki no Tsukai - No Laughing Challenge, often appearing as a character who occasionally (and intentionally) speaks unintelligibly to cause the contestants to laugh.\n\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932246", "title": "X10 (programming language)", "text": "X10 (programming language)\n\nX10 is a programming language being developed by IBM at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center as part of the Productive, Easy-to-use, Reliable Computing System (PERCS) project funded by DARPA's High Productivity Computing Systems (HPCS) program. Its primary authors are Saravanan Arumugam (Aswath), Kemal Ebcioğlu, Vijay Saraswat, and Vivek Sarkar.\n\nX10 is designed specifically for parallel computing using the partitioned global address space (PGAS) model.\nA computation is divided among a set of \"places\", each of which holds some data and hosts one or more \"activities\" that operate on those data. It has a constrained type system for object-oriented programming, a form of dependent types. Other features include user-defined primitive \"struct\" types; globally distributed \"arrays\", and structured and unstructured parallelism.\n\nX10 uses the concept of parent and child relationships for activities to prevent the lock stalemate that can occur when two or more processes wait for each other to finish before they can complete. An activity may spawn one or more child activities, which may themselves have children. Children cannot wait for a parent to finish, but a parent can wait for a child using the \"finish\" command.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932250", "title": "University of Manitoba Students' Union", "text": "University of Manitoba Students' Union\n\nThe University of Manitoba Students' Union (UMSU) is the university-wide representative body for undergraduate students at the University of Manitoba, located in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. UMSU was established in 1919, replacing the former University of Manitoba Students' Association founded in 1914. Its head office is located in UMSU University Centre—a large, Modernist architecture building designed by Canadian architect Isadore (Issie) Coop at UM's Fort Garry Campus that serves as the university's activity hub.\n\nThe UMSU operates six student businesses on campus, including Degree's (a restaurant), G.P.A.'s (a convenience store), IQ's (a pool hall and coffee shop), Answers (an information booth also responsible for selling things like bus passes and concert tickets), UMCycle (bike repair shop) and the Digital Print and Design Centre. \n\nThe union also operates a number of non-business operations, such as the Gallery of Student Art (which displays art installations created by students), the Grocery Run (which supplies students living in residence with an opportunity to purchase groceries from the local grocery store), and a Food Bank for students. It also administers a number of scholarships and bursaries, travel grants, as well as providing funding for the student radio station, CJUM, more popularly known as UMFM and the student newspaper (The Manitoban).\n\nThe UMSU is run by a five-person elected executive, which includes a President and four Vice-Presidents. The four Vice-Presidents are each responsible for a different portfolio: Finance and Operations; Community Engagement; Student Life; and Advocacy. UMSU Council is the highest authority in the organization, and is made up of student representatives from each of the faculties, schools, student residences, the Inner-City Campus, and five positions for community representatives. Each faculty, school or residence has at least one representative, with some having up to four, depending on student population. The five community representatives represent marginalized communities of the student body: womyn students, international students, students living with disabilities, LGBTTQ* students, and Indigenous students. The Council also has a number of committees that deal with specific areas, such as Governance, Finance, Member Services, UPass (A subsidized student bus pass) and the Health and Dental Insurance Plan.\n\nUMSU is unique among Canadian student governments in having a provincial law dedicated solely to UMSU.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932257", "title": "Piano Concerto No. 23 (Mozart)", "text": "Piano Concerto No. 23 (Mozart)\n\nThe Piano Concerto No. 23 in A major (K. 488) is a composition for piano and orchestra written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. It was finished, according to Mozart's own catalogue, on March 2, 1786, two months prior to the premiere of his opera, \"Le nozze di Figaro\", and some three weeks prior to the completion of his next piano concerto. It was one of three subscription concerts given that spring and was probably played by Mozart himself at one of these. \n\nThe concerto is scored for piano solo and an orchestra consisting of one flute, two clarinets, two bassoons, two horns and strings. \n\nThe concerto has three movements and typically lasts for about 26 minutes:\n\nThe first movement is in A major and is in sonata form. The piece begins with a double exposition, the first played by the orchestra, and the second when the piano joins in. The first exposition is static from a tonal point of view and is quite concise, the third theme is not yet revealed. The second exposition includes the soloist and is modulatory. It also includes the previously unheard third theme. The second exposition is ornamented as opposed to the first exposition which is not. The second theme has harmonic tension. This is expressed by dissonances that are played on the beat, and then solved by an interval of a descending second. This is also expressed in the use of chromatics in the melody and bass lines which is a source of harmonic tension, as the listeners anticipate the arrival of the tonic.\n\nThe slow second movement, in ternary form, is somewhat operatic in tone. The piano begins alone with a theme in Siciliano rhythm characterized by unusually wide leaps. This is the only movement by Mozart in F minor. The dynamics are soft throughout most of the piece. The middle of the movement contains a brighter section in A major announced by flute and clarinet that Mozart would later use to introduce the trio \"Ah! taci ingiusto core!\" in his 1787 opera \"Don Giovanni\".\n\nThe third movement is a sonata-rondo. It is shaded by moves into other keys as is the opening movement (to C major from E minor and back during the secondary theme in this case, for instance) and with a central section whose opening in F sharp minor is interrupted by a clarinet tune in D major, an intrusion that, according to Girdlestone, reminds one that instrumental music at the time was informed by opera buffa and its sudden changes of point of view as well as of scene.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932260", "title": "Superstar: The Karen Carpenter Story", "text": "Superstar: The Karen Carpenter Story\n\nSuperstar: The Karen Carpenter Story is a 1987 American experimental short biographical film that portrays the last 17 years of singer Karen Carpenter's life, as she struggled with anorexia. Directed by Todd Haynes, the film uses Barbie dolls as actors, as well as documentaries and artistic footage. \"Superstar\" was co-written and co-produced by Haynes and Cynthia Schneider, with an unauthorized soundtrack consisting mostly of the hit songs of The Carpenters. It was filmed over a ten-day period at Bard College in the summer of 1985. Barry Ellsworth collaborated on the film and was the cinematographer for the Barbie themed interior segments of the film.\n\nThe film was withdrawn from circulation in 1990 after Haynes lost a copyright infringement lawsuit filed by Karen's brother and musical collaborator, Richard Carpenter. The film's title is derived from The Carpenters' 1971 hit, \"Superstar\". Meanwhile, over the years \"Superstar\" has developed into a cult film, has notably been bootlegged, and is included in \"Entertainment Weekly\"s 2003 list of top 50 cult movies. Its apparent metamodern purpose as a film, including multiple perspectives on anorexia nervosa, the pop music industry, The Carpenters themselves, and the definition of a biographical film, has also given it a legacy among fans of avant-garde cinema; Guy Lodge, writing for The Guardian, expressed that 'while Haynes is working in a vein of very rich irony, there’s not a hint of snark here'.\n\nThe film follows Karen Carpenter from the time of her \"discovery\" in 1966, her quick rise to stardom, to her untimely death by cardiac arrest (secondary to anorexia nervosa) in 1983. It begins in Karen's parents' home in Downey, California on February 4, 1983, and the viewer follows through the eyes of Karen's mother, Agnes Carpenter, as she discovers her body in a closet. The film then returns by flashback to 1966, and touches on major points in Karen's life including the duo's signing with the A&M record label, their initial success and subsequent decline, Karen's development of anorexia nervosa, her 14-month marriage to Thomas Burris, Karen's on-stage collapse in Las Vegas, her search for treatment for her anorexia nervosa, the attempt to restart her career, and finally a claim that she gradually developed a reliance on syrup of ipecac (a product that, unbeknownst to her, destroyed her heart and led to her cardiac arrest and death).\n\nAn unusual facet of the film is that, instead of actors, almost all of the parts are played by modified Barbie dolls. In particular, Haynes detailed Karen's worsening anorexia by subtly whittling away at the face and arms of the \"Karen\" Barbie doll. Sets were created properly scaled to the dolls, including locales such as the Carpenter home in Downey, Karen's apartment in Century City, restaurants, and recording studios. Details such as labels on wine bottles and Ex-Lax boxes were shrunk in proportion. Interspersed with the story are documentary-style segments detailing both the times in which Karen Carpenter lived and anorexia, as well as blurred and distorted flashing segments that are intended to break the flow of the film. These segments were seen as melodramatic parodies of the documentary genre. The underlying and unauthorized soundtrack includes many popular hits of the day, including duets such as Elton John and Kiki Dee and Captain & Tennille, and songs by Gilbert O'Sullivan, Leon Russell, as well as the bulk of The Carpenters' hits themselves. However, the soundtrack also includes distinctive experimental synthesizer pieces that serve as motifs during extremely tense moments in the plot.\n\nThe tone of the film is sympathetic to Karen, especially in regard to her anorexia, but much of that sympathy is seemingly gained by making the other characters unsympathetic. Karen's parents, Harold and Agnes, are portrayed as overly controlling, attempting to keep Karen living at home even after she turned twenty-five. Agnes was portrayed as unaware of the extent of Karen's problem with anorexia. The duo's initial meeting with A&M Records owner Herb Alpert was inter-cut with stock footage of Vietnam War scenes. Richard Carpenter was portrayed as a rampant perfectionist who frequently sided with his parents against Karen, and he was also depicted as being more concerned with his and Karen's careers than with Karen's health. This culminated in a scene where Richard berates a fatigued and obviously ill Karen for not meeting business demands, yelling at her, \"What are you trying to do? Ruin \"both\" of our careers?\", causing her to break down in tears. Haynes then insinuated, during a fight between Richard and Karen over her renewed use of Ex-Lax, that Richard had a secret that he didn't want his parents to know about. Haynes' dark treatment of the film included using black captions which often blend in with the scene, rendering them unreadable.\n\nHaynes also works spanking, a common theme in his works, into the film, through a repeated segment featuring a black-and-white overhead view of someone administering an over-the-knee spanking to the bare-bottomed adult Barbie Karen. The meaning of this segment is never discussed, leaving it to the viewer's imagination and serving as a motif breaking any intention of normality in the film.\n\n\nUpon its release, the film was a minor art hit, and was shown at several film festivals. However, shortly thereafter, Richard Carpenter viewed the film and became irate with its portrayal of his family and himself. It later emerged that Haynes never obtained music licensing from either Richard or the Carpenters' label, A&M Records, for the numerous songs used in the film. Richard sued Haynes for failing to obtain the clearances and won. As a result of the lawsuit, all copies of the film were to have been recalled and destroyed. The Museum of Modern Art retains a copy of this film, but in an agreement with The Carpenter Estate, they do not exhibit it. Nevertheless, bootleg copies remain in circulation and it can still be seen on YouTube.\n\nIn his analysis of \"Superstar\"s bootleg existence, Lucas Hilderbrand, a professor of film studies at University of California, Irvine, stated: \"Analogue reproduction of the text rather than destroying the original's aura, actually reconstructs it. Materially the fallout of the image and sound mark each successive copy as an illicit object, a forbidden pleasure watched and shared and loved to exhaustion.\" \nHowever the frequent practice of uploading the film to widely accessible Internet platforms like YouTube has added new dimension to the film's bootlegged aesthetic in the ability to experience \"Superstar\"s deteriorated quality, contradictorily, in a digital format.\n\n\"Superstar,\" as a bootleg phenomenon during the 1990s, remains a popular act of civil disobedience, shifting the focus away from the copyright issues to its pertinence within digital media and its aesthetics. The documentary continues to be watched, shared, and copied, therefore reshaping the viewers' reception of \"Superstar\" historically and emotionally. The tapes have primarily circulated through personal connections, but they have also found other ways to circulate, such as other video watching websites. While the film was noteworthy alone for Haynes' use of dolls to portray the Carpenters, the withdrawal from distribution due to legal problems from Mattel, the Carpenters, and A&M Records made it legendary.\n\nIn 2003, \"Entertainment Weekly\" labeled the film at #45 on the list of the Top 50 Cult Movies.\n"}
{"id": "1932264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932264", "title": "UMSU", "text": "UMSU\n\nUMSU may stand for:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932265", "title": "Russian Telegraph Agency", "text": "Russian Telegraph Agency\n\nRussian Telegraph Agency (, \"Rossiyskoye telegrafnoye agentstvo\"), abbr. ROSTA, was the state news agency in Soviet Russia (1918-35). After the creation of Telegraph Agency of the Soviet Union in 1925, it remained the news agency of Soviet Russia. Its name was associated with \"Rosta windows\" (, \"Okna Rosta\").\n\nRosta windows or satirical Rosta windows (, \"Okna satiry Rosta\") were stencil-replicated propaganda posters created by artists and poets within the Rosta system, under the supervision of the Chief Committee of Political Education during 1919-21. Inheriting the Russian design traditions of lubok and rayok, the main topics were current political events. They were usually displayed in windows, hence the name.\n\nThe first Rosta window was created in Moscow by Mikhail Cheremnykh (1890-1962). He was soon joined by Vladimir Mayakovsky, a popular and prolific author, Dmitry Moor (1883-1946), Amshey Nurenberg (1887-1979), Alexander Rodchenko, Mikhail Volpin and others. Similar projects were performed in other Soviet cities. Cheremnykh and Mayakovsky, for example, produced a poster in 1921 satirising a French delegation led by Joseph Noulens.\n\nThe design featured graphical simplicity suitable for viewing from distance and often used lubok-styled sequences of pictures according to some plot, similar to modern comics. The posters were not printed but rather painted with cut-out stencils made from cardboard. Once the required number of posters was painted, the stencils were sent to another city and put in circulation throughout the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring the World War II, this approach was reproduced in Tass windows by Kukryniksy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932269", "title": "SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs", "text": "SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs\n\nSOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs is a tactical shooter video game developed by Zipper Interactive and published by Sony Computer Entertainment exclusively for PlayStation 2. It's the sequel to \"\".\n\nThe online servers for this game, along with other PlayStation 2 and PlayStation Portable \"SOCOM\" titles, were shut down on August 31, 2012. Players could still do online play by using the LAN option and by the use of LAN tunnel application however.\n\n\"SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs\" is a third-person tactical shooter. There are 14 different single-player missions.\n\nIn the North African campaign, the player's (Specter) fireteam consists \"Jester\" as well as SEALs \"Killjoy\" and \"Simple\". Specter's SEAL team battles the North African Patriotic Front (NAPF), the renamed Algerian Patriotic Front from , led by the megalomaniac General Heydar Mahmood and Colonel Sarwat, his second-in-command. Mahmood had gained control of Algeria via a coup d'etat during the previous game, and now the NAPF has just launched an offensive into a neighboring unnamed country, implied to be Morocco, while the SEAL team is enlisted to support local forces trying to repel the NAPF. Upon arriving, Specter rendezvous with local forces, and proceeds to ambush an NAPF convoy, secure a NAPF sanctuary, and demolishes a communications tower. After meeting up with the local fighter leader, the \"Sand Lion\", Specter's team assists the locals in attacking an NAPF weapons depot. They cut off the NAPF reinforcement route by demolishing a bridge, and unexpectedly encounters an enemy T-72. En route to the weapons depot, the SEALs find dozens of civilians killed by the NAPF. After destroying the depot, the SEALs are redeployed following the Coalition for Humanitarian Aid's (CHA) approval of a military intervention in the area. Via the Strait of Gibraltar, the CHA invades only to be fired upon by NAPF Chinese-made HY-2 cruise missiles. The SEALs rush to deactivate the missile launch sites before the CHA calls off the invasion. The CHA successfully lands, while the SEALs are called to hold off a NAPF preemptive strike against leading CHA forces. Repelling waves of infantry and tanks, reinforcements finally arrive and a counterattack is launched against the NAPF in the ruins of an old fort where troops are amassing. Subsequently, the SEALs enter Mahmood's Field HQ to capture him and Colonel Sarwat, but were delayed due to Marcy Raines, a personnel working for the State Department (from ), who was stranded and required extraction. Mahmood takes advantage of the delay, and flees in an Mi-24 helicopter leaving Sarwat for the SEALs. Later, the SEALs search for Mahmood whose helicopter was shot down. After fighting two NAPF tanks, Specter search several villages for him, and finally collects enough data to pinpoint his location at a mountain villa. Mahmood is captured and the African Campaign ends.\n\nIn the South Asian missions \"Killjoy\" and \"Simple\" are replaced by British Special Boat Service operatives \"Flash\" and \"Chopper\". In these missions the player battles a piracy organization called \"The Fist and Fire\". In the missions' plot the Fist and Fire have been wreaking havoc on local shipping and recently captured the freighter \"Breackneck\", which was loaded with missiles and small arms, in the Bay of Bengal and steered her back to Bangladesh. In the first mission the player assaults a remote Fist and Fire (Often referred to as Raiders by your fireteam) outpost along a river. Once there the team searches for the Breakneck and its cargo of missiles. The player finds the freighter but the cargo was moved to a second, larger outpost. When the player checks a warehouse a cut-scene plays and the missiles are being loaded onto a small boat that soon leaves its dock. In the second mission the player meets a local informant \"Magpie\" who assists him in searching two villages for a \"Mole\" who had been leaking information to the Raiders and talking to villagers. After the villages have been searched the team dismantles Raider operations in the villages and their surroundings. En route to the extraction a man runs toward the informant warning him that his village is being looted and burnt by the Raiders. The player and his fireteam then stops the massacre and moves on to complete the final objective. In the last mission, the team enters the Raiders' headquarter on an island in search of their leader, Hari Raman, the Captain and the first mate of the Breakneak who are being held hostage, and the missiles. After securing the beachhead the team finds a small cave system, in these caves and their direct vicinity you locate Raman, the hostages and the missiles.\n\nThe last missions take place in Poland where the SEALs battle a well funded, ultra-nationalist terrorist organization called the New Slavic Order (NSO). In these missions \"Flash\" and \"Chopper\" are replaced by GROM operatives \"Deadpan\" and \"Coldkill\". In the first mission the team performs reconnaissance on an NSO controlled house which is the residence of a local cell leader, Bogdan Kurasz codenamed FATCAT, and bug a laptop and a phone for gathering intel for future operations. The second mission begins when the First Lady of Poland, Ludmila Zarobska, is at a boat christening ceremony in the port city of Gdańsk when chemical weapon canisters explode and several NSO terrorists move in to kidnap her. Their plan was to take her hostage and use her as a bargaining chip to force the government to agree to their demands. Unable to contact the First Lady's security detail, the fireteam is sent in to rescue and extract her. After a boat chase through the city's canals and a long firefight, the team secures her and proceeds to extract. On the way the team encounters brutal NSO resistance as they have taken control of the city. Once the team has secured the extraction, an Mi-24 comes to extract the first lady. After the player kills some terrorists that were fleeing from Polish Forces, the mission ends. The third mission takes place where the player's team returns to the site of the first mission to eliminate the NSO presence and capture the cell leader, FATCAT. After an extensive search of the surrounding area and buildings, the team find a cave system underneath a barn. The team continues through the caves and out into a forest where they eventually find and apprehend FATCAT. The fourth mission takes place in the city of Wroclaw near the Polish border with the Czech Republic. The NSO is preparing to flee Poland, because of their recent setbacks, and plan to set up operations elsewhere in Eastern Europe. Fortunately, a storm moved into the region and flooded the city, enabling the team to infiltrate, recon, and pinpoint the creator of the NSO's chemical weapon arsenal, Dr. Mironova, and the NSO's leader, Kryzstof Gryc. Once they're located the team extracts from the area. In the last mission of the game the team goes back to the city to kill all the remaining NSO terrorists as well as Mironova and Gryc, and secure their chemical weapons. The team first clears a safehouse with moderate resistance and then moves on to clear a courtyard where a heavy but brief firefight ensues. The team finally reaches a brewery where the weapons and Mironoava are. Once she is killed, H.Q. warns the team that Gryc has led a suicide assault on the brewery to set off the weapons. Once the team mows down waves of NSO assaults and defends the brewery, Gryc leads a small team himself, once he and his team are killed, the mission is complete.\n\n\"SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs\" is playable on five difficulty levels. At the start, the player can only choose from three of these. If the player completes the game on Commander, they can unlock the Captain difficulty level (which unlocks the Admiral difficulty level upon successful completion).\n\nEvery mission has primary, secondary, bonus, and crosstalk objectives - which are compatible with the Sony PSP game \"\".\n\nZipper Interactive decided to require \"SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs\" players to verify their identities by using a credit card, debit cards, or VISA gift cards. If the players do not verify themselves, they will not be granted ranks, allowed to join friends' lists, ranked games or clans. The PAL version of \"SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs\" did not need to be verified for online play. The \"SOCOM\" blog, set up by the Sony PlayStation team to give players a look at the making of the game, stated that this was meant to keep \"SOCOM\" cheaters away from the game.\n\nThe game is situated in Poland, South Asia and North Africa. The South Asia area of operation was originally specified as Bangladesh, but was changed after a complaint from the Bangladeshi government.\n\nThe first Map Pack was released for a free two-week trial on June 27, 2006. After the two-week trial, players had the opportunity to purchase the map pack through the SOCOM Store in the SOCOM community section. Two more map packs were released containing maps from SOCOM and SOCOM 2.\n\n\"SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs\" received \"generally positive\" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n"}
{"id": "1932273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932273", "title": "Al Norte del Sur", "text": "Al Norte del Sur\n\nAl Norte del Sur is a 1988 studio album by Franco De Vita released on the CBS Records label. The CD produced four hit singles: \"Louis,\" \"Te Amo,\" \"Promesas\" and \"Esta Vez.\" All four singles reached the Top 10 on the Billboard Latin music charts in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932283", "title": "Oops!... I Did It Again (song)", "text": "Oops!... I Did It Again (song)\n\n\"Oops!... I Did It Again\" is a song by American singer Britney Spears, from her second album of the same name. It was released on March 27, 2000, by Jive Records as the lead single from the album. The song was written and produced by Max Martin and Rami Yacoub. \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" is a song that lyrically speaks of a female who views love as a game, and she decides to use that to her advantage by playing with her lover's emotions. Its bridge features a dialogue which references the blockbuster film \"Titanic\" (1997).\n\nUpon its release, \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" received positive reviews from music critics, who noted similarities to her debut single \"...Baby One More Time\". It was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance during the 2001 ceremony. Commercially, the track peaked at number nine on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It went to the top in at least 15 countries.\n\nAn accompanying music video was directed by Nigel Dick. It depicts Spears on Mars, where she addresses an astronaut who has fallen in love with her. She is dressed in a red bodysuit. It went on to receive three nominations at the 2000 MTV Video Music Awards. Spears has performed the track during her Oops!... I Did It Again Tour, Dream Within a Dream Tour, The Onyx Hotel Tour and .\n\nAfter attaining huge success with her debut album \"...Baby One More Time\" (1999) and its singles \"...Baby One More Time\", \"Sometimes\", \"(You Drive Me) Crazy\", \"Born to Make You Happy\", and \"From the Bottom of My Broken Heart\", Spears recorded much of her follow-up record \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" (2000) in November 1999 at the Cheiron Studios in Stockholm, Sweden. Its title track was written and produced by Max Martin and Rami Yacoub, while background vocals were provided by Martin and Nana Hedin. The track was released on March 27, 2000, by JIVE Records as the lead single from the record.\n\n\"Oops!... I Did It Again\" is a song that lasts for a duration of three minutes and thirty seconds. It is composed in the key of C minor and is set in time signature of common time, with a moderate tempo of 94 beats per minute. The song has a basic sequence of Cm–A-G as its chord progression, and features a vocal range spanning from C to C. Lyrically, the track discusses a female who toys with her lover's emotions, who mistakes Spears' flirtatiousness with a serious romantic interest. During its bridge, Spears delivers a spoken-word dialogue that references the blockbuster film \"Titanic\" (1997).\n\nUpon its release, \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" received generally favorable reviews from music critics. Writing for \"Entertainment Weekly\", David Browne called it \"ludicrously derivative\" of Spears' debut single \"...Baby One More Time\", and commented that it \"amounts to nothing so much as a jailbait manifesto\". Lennat Mak of the Asian division of MTV complimented the song as \"a perfect 10 on the \"wow\" scale, with the wacky \"Jack-Rose\" dialogue\", referencing the \"Titanic\" spoken lyrics.\n\nA reviewer from \"NME\" compared the structure of the recording to '80s-style riffs of Michael Jackson and further described the track as a \"harder, carbon copy\" of \"...Baby One More Time\" that is \"easily as good as her breakthrough single\". Robert Christgau recognized \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" and Spears' rendition of \"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction\" as his \"choice cuts\" from the parent album, Writing for \"Rolling Stone\", Rob Sheffield compared the track musically to Barbra Streisand's \"Woman in Love\" and lyrically to The Smiths' \"I Started Something I Couldn't Finish\", and complimented it for being \"terrific\" and displaying \"a violently ambivalent sexual confusion her audience can relate to\". Andy Battaglia of \"Salon\" described the track as a \"sweetly sadistic companion piece to the masochism lite lurking beneath her debut '...Baby One More Time'\".\n\n\"Oops!... I Did It Again\" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 2001 ceremony, but lost to \"I Try\" by Macy Gray. The track was additionally nominated for the Favorite Song at the 2001 Kids' Choice Awards broadcast on Nickelodeon, but lost to \"Who Let the Dogs Out?\" by the Baha Men.\n\nIn the United States, \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" peaked at number nine on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It additionally peaked at numbers 1 and 27 on the \"Billboard\" Pop Songs and Adult Pop Songs component charts. In Canada, the track topped the Canadian Hot 100 for six weeks. It topped the singles charts in both Australia and New Zealand, and was certified platinum in the former country for reaching sales of 70,000 copies.\n\n\"Oops!... I Did It Again\" enjoyed success throughout Europe, and peaked atop the European Hot 100 Singles chart. It also peaked at number one on the UK Singles Chart, and was certified Platinum for exceeding sales of 600,000 copies. As of June 2015, the song has sold 476,000 copies in the country. The song reached number two in Austria, where it was additionally recognized with platinum certification for sales of 15,000 units. It respectively peaked at numbers one and three on the Wallonia and Flanders charts in Belgium, and also respectively reached numbers one and two in Denmark and Finland.\n\n\"Oops!... I Did It Again\" reached number four in France, and number two in both Germany and Ireland. In Germany, the single additionally received a gold certification, signifying sales of 250,000 units. It additionally topped singles charts in Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland. The song was awarded gold certifications in the Netherlands and Switzerland, respectively marking sales of 40,000 and 15,000 copies, and attained platinum certification in Sweden for reaching sales of 20,000 units. As of May 2020, the single has generated over 240 million streams in the US.\n\nAn accompanying music video for \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" was directed by Nigel Dick and was filmed in Universal City, California. It was choreographed by Tina Landon. During its production, Spears was struck in the head by a falling camera and began bleeding. Spears' mother Lynne (who was present) suggested that she might have suffered from a concussion, though she received four stitches and continued work after resting for four hours. Spears created the concept for the clip, commenting that \"[she wanted] to be on Mars, dancing on Mars\" and \"[wanted] to be in a red jumpsuit\". The final product premiered on April 10, 2000, on an episode of MTV's \"Making the Video\".\n\nThe music video begins with a brief scene of an astronaut on Mars uncovering a stone slate featuring the cover of the album \"Oops!... I Did It Again\". A scientist back on Earth sees it through a video transmitter and says, \"Cute. What is it?\" As the astronaut replies, \"Oh, it's cute alright. It couldn't be...\", the ground begins to shake as a large stage rises from the ground. Spears, with her hair ironed straight, then descends from a platform onto a stage in a red bodysuit as the track begins to play. As she continues to sing and dance, she suspends the astronaut mid-air above her. Interspersed throughout the video are scenes of Spears wearing a midriff-baring white top and skirt, lying barefoot on a white web pad with backup dancers on the ground around her. During its bridge, Spears does a flip in the air to where the astronaut is and appears in a white jacket, short black leather skirt, and leather boots. As a symbol of his love for her, the astronaut gifts Spears with the Heart of the Ocean, the blue diamond from the blockbuster film \"Titanic\" (1997). She questions that she \"thought the old lady [Rose] dropped it into the ocean in the end\", to which he responds, \"Well, baby, I went down and got it for you\". Spears comments \"Aww, you shouldn't have\" and walks away, the astronaut shrugs and leaves (this spoken interlude is also heard on the record). The video concludes as Spears and her performers continue to dance.\n\nAt the 2000 MTV Video Music Awards, the music video for \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" was nominated for the Best Female Video, Best Dance Video, the Best Pop Video, and the Viewer's Choice. However, she lost in each of the four categories.\n\nThe first performance of \"Oops I Did It Again\" was on March 8, 2000, during the Crazy 2k Tour in Pensacola, Florida. In May 2000, Spears performed \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" during several television performances, including \"All That\", \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\", \"Saturday Night Live\", \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Total Request Live\", and the two-hour concert special \"Britney Live\". The following month, she appeared in an additional television special, titled \"Britney Spears in Hawaii\". In collaboration with McDonald's, Spears and NSYNC filmed a commercial for the fast-food chain, where they lip-synced to \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" and \"Bye Bye Bye\", respectively.\n\nOn September 7, Spears performed \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" and her rendition of \"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction\" by The Rolling Stones at the 2000 MTV Video Music Awards, where she notably tore off her black suit to unveil a more provocative, flesh-colored two-piece. \"Entertainment Weekly\" included the performance on its end-of-the-decade \"best-of\" list, describing \"the pre-breakdown pop tart, then just 19 years old, writhing and shaking her moneymaker in nude-colored rhinestone spandex\" to be \"pure kitsch bliss\".\n\nSpears has performed \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" on three of her eight concert tours. She premiered the song on the Crazy 2k Tour and later included the track as the encore to her Oops!... I Did It Again Tour in 2000, where it was performed with special effects involving fire. In 2001, it was featured as the opening to her Dream Within a Dream Tour. In 2004, Spears sang \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" during The Onyx Hotel Tour, held in support of her fourth studio album \"In the Zone\". The track was reworked with \"...Baby One More Time\" as a jazz-style performance.\n\n\"Oops!... I Did It Again\" would not be performed by Spears for nine years until it was included on the setlist of her Las Vegas residency show at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino.\n\nSince its release, \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" has been covered on numerous occasions. In 2001, German singer Max Raabe recorded a cabaret version of the song with Palast Orchester for their album \"Super Hits\". Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom also recorded a cover of the song for their album \"Skeletons in the Closet\" (2009), while Rochelle released three eurodance hi-NRG renditions of the track. Richard Thompson covered the song on his album \"1000 Years of Popular Music\" (2006), and in addition included a medieval-style version titled \"Marry, Ageyn Hic Hev Donne Yt\".\n\n\"Oops!... I Did It Again\" has been featured on several television series. In 2004, it was included on the soundtrack for the sitcom \"Will & Grace\". Irish pop rap duo Jedward performed the song live during the sixth series of the British version of \"The X Factor\" in 2009. During the episode \"Britney/Brittany\" for \"Glee\" in 2010, Brittany Pierce (portrayed by Heather Morris) mimicked Spears as she danced in a red catsuit while performing her later single \"I'm a Slave 4 U\". The song itself was later performed by Rachel Berry (portrayed by Lea Michele) during the episode \"Britney 2.0\" in 2012. While of tour with her band The Scene, Selena Gomez covered \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" during their We Own the Night Tour in 2011.\n\nCover versions of the song appear on the video games \"Dance Dance Revolution Extreme 2\" (2005), Karaoke Revolution Volume 3 (2004), and \"Just Dance 4\" (2012), while Spears' original version is included on Singstar as DLC and her own video game \"Britney's Dance Beat\". In 2005, the comedy website Super Master Piece released parody version of \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" titled \"Oops I Did It Again!: The Original\", which they jokingly labeled as the original recording by Louis Armstrong on April 1932 in Chicago, Illinois; their version was actually recorded by Shek Baker. The track has also been parodied under the title \"Oops! I Farted Again\" by producer Bob Rivers.\n\nIn 2013, it was reported that \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" and \"...Baby One More Time\" has been used by the British Navy to scare off pirates near Somalia. \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" is referenced in the lyrics of Peeping Tom's 2006 single \"Mojo\" and Fall Out Boy's 2017 single \"Young and Menace\".\n\nAnne Marie referenced the song on the chorus of her single \"2002\". Miley Cyrus' \"Mother's Daughter\" music video pays homage to the red latex suit Spears wore in the \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" music video.\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Oops!... I Did It Again\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1932284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932284", "title": "Catalogue raisonné", "text": "Catalogue raisonné\n\nA catalogue raisonné is a comprehensive, annotated listing of all the known artworks by an artist either in a particular medium or all media. The works are described in such a way that they may be reliably identified by third parties.\n\nThere are many variations, both broader and narrower than \"all the works\" or \"one artist\". The parameters may be restricted to one type of art work by one artist or widened to all the works by a group of artists.\n\nIt can take many years to complete a \"catalogue raisonné\", and large teams of researchers are sometimes employed on the task. For example, it was reported in 2013 that the Dedalus Foundation (established by the abstract-expressionist painter Robert Motherwell) took eleven years to complete the three-volume catalogue raisonné of Motherwell's work which was published by Yale University Press in 2012, with approximately 25 people contributing to the project.\n\nEarly examples consisted of two distinct parts, a biography and the catalogue itself. Their modern counterpart is the critical catalogue which may contain personal views of the author.\n\nThe term \"catalogue raisonné\" is French, meaning \"reasoned catalogue\" (i.e. containing arguments for the information given, such as attributions), but is part of the technical terminology of the English-speaking art world. The spelling is never Americanized to \"catalog\", even in the United States. The French pluralization \"catalogues raisonnés\" is used.\n\n\"The New York Times\" has described catalogues raisonnés as the definitive, scholarly compendia of an artist's work, the \"supreme arbiter of the genuine and fake\". In the case of deceased artists the producer of a catalogue raisonné which is regarded as a standard text may have considerable power to determine whether a particular work is regarded as authentic or not. In this context \"producers\" may include authors, editors, committees or publishers.\n\nInclusion in or exclusion from a respected catalogue raisonné can have a considerable effect on the market price of a work, amounting in some cases to large sums of money. Inclusion has been called the difference between \"great wealth and the gutter\", and auction houses sometimes refuse to handle unlisted works. As a result, catalogue raisonné authors have been the targets of lawsuits, and allegedly of bribes and even death threats<ref name=\"New York Times 2014/02/03\">Cohen, Patricia (2 February 2014). \"A Modigliani? Who Says So?\", \"New York Times\".</ref> although no evidence of the latter has reached the courts.\n\nIn an edition of the television programme in the BBC documentary series \"Fake or Fortune?\" broadcast in the United Kingdom on 19 June 2011, the subject was the authenticity of the Claude Monet painting \"Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil\". The painting was submitted to the Wildenstein Institute which is the publisher of the catalogues raisonnés most widely accepted as authoritative on the subject of Monet paintings. The result of this submission was that the Institute, acting in accordance with the wishes of a descendant of the original author of the catalogues, refused to include it in future editions. This decision was taken despite the fact that the Institute had been presented with considerable evidence of the painting's authenticity.\n\nIn contrast to this decision the edition of the programme broadcast in the United Kingdom on 19 January 2014 investigated one of a group of paintings reputedly by French post-impressionist Édouard Vuillard and on this occasion a committee of the Wildentstein Institute decided that the painting should be included in their catalogue raisonné for the artist. The art dealer and historian Philip Mould stated while presenting the programme that this painting would be worth approximately £250,000 if it was accepted for inclusion in the catalogue raisonné, but that if it was not accepted it would be worth approximately £1,500 'as a piece of decorative art' – less than 1% of the full value.\n\nIn 2012 the \"New York Times\" reported that some scholars and artists' foundations have decided not to publish future catalogues raisonnés because they fear being sued by buyers or sellers unhappy with their conclusions. The question of whether producers of catalogues raisonnés should accept responsibility for determining authenticity of works was debated at a seminar on 29 March 2012 held at Christies, New York under the auspices of the Catalogue Raisonné Scholars Association.\n\nAn example of individual policies is given by the Wildenstein Institute's stated policy with regard to authentication of artworks which (at 8 February 2014) was as follows: 'After examination, and based on the opinion of the members of the committee, a recommendation is made in the form of the intention to include or not to include the work under study; a third possibility also exists, that of continuing the examination of the work. Under no circumstance is a recommendation to be considered as a certificate of authenticity or appraisal, and no justification will be provided for said recommendation.’ This policy contrasts with the text of the letter from the Institute which was read out on the television programme about the Monet painting, in which the Institute appeared to reject the authenticity of the work.\n\nDifficulties can occur when more than one catalogue raisonné is published for the same oeuvre. The work of the artist Amedeo Modigliani is the subject of at least five catalogues raisonnés.\n\nEven if there is no published catalogue raisonné for an artist there may be an organisation which publishes authentications of work which are regarded as having the same effect as a formal catalogue. In the edition of \"Fake or Fortune?\" first broadcast in the United Kingdom on 2 February 2014, an example of such a committee was featured. The subject of the programme was a painting which bore a signature reading \"Marc Chagall\" thus implying that it had been painted by the Russian-French artist of that name. It had been included in a reference work on the painter, but not in the most recent edition of that work, and forensic tests showed that it was painted with pigments not available at the time it was purported to have been executed. Despite this uncertain evidence of authenticity the makers of the programme submitted it to a group referred to as the \"Chagall Committee\", which includes descendants of the artist. This committee ruled that the painting is a fake and sought its destruction either with the agreement of the owner or, failing that, by court order under the French law of \"Droit moral\". The art historian Dr Bendor Grosvenor criticised the Chagall Committee's decision to seek the destruction of the painting, which contrasts with the policy of the Wildenstein Institute when works are submitted to it: 'Whatever the committee's recommendation, the work will be returned upon presentation of the consignment receipt'. Presenter and art dealer Philip Mould said \"I would now [think] three times or more before sending it to Paris. Ugly acts like the one proposed by the Committee can have the effect of damaging the progress of art history.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932286", "title": "Voces a mi Alrededor", "text": "Voces a mi Alrededor\n\nVoces a mi Alrededor is a 1993 album by Franco De Vita released on the Sony label. The CD produced \"Cálido y Frío,\" a Top 10 hit on the Billboard Latin music charts. Lesser hits from the disc include \"Y Te Pienso\" and \"Los Hijos de la Oscuridad.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1932303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932303", "title": "En Vivo Marzo 16", "text": "En Vivo Marzo 16\n\nEn Vivo Marzo 16 is a 1992 album by Franco De Vita released on the Sony label. The album is a concert recording made in Caracas, Venezuela, De Vita's birthplace. The title refers to the date of the recording on March 16, 1992. Two studio cuts were included on the disc: One of them, \"No Lo Había Pensado,\" became a chart hit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932309", "title": "Mancheng District", "text": "Mancheng District\n\nMancheng District () is a district of west-central Hebei province, China, in the eastern foothills of the Taihang Mountains. It is administratively part of Baoding prefecture-level city, of which the Mancheng is a northwestern suburb.\n\nMancheng is the site of the Han dynasty tombs of king/prince Liu Sheng and his wife Dou Wan.\n\nThere is 1 subdistrict, 5 towns and 7 townships under the county's administration.\n\nSubdistricts:\n\nTowns:\n\nTownships:\n"}
{"id": "1932318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932318", "title": "2600 hertz", "text": "2600 hertz\n\n2600 Hz is a frequency in hertz (cycles per second) that was used by AT&T as a steady signal to mark currently unused long-distance telephone lines.\n\nDuring the 1960s, in-band signaling was used, so the same line for both voice conversations and telephone connection management signals. Since a pause in a voice conversation would produce silence, another method was required for switches to determine whether a line was in use. The solution AT&T created was to produce a 2600 Hz tone on idle trunks.\n\nA device, known as a blue box, was created to generate the 2600 Hz signal on a line being used. This indicated to switch that the line was idle. After the tone, the switch believed another call was starting, and used the subsequent dialed digits to connect the call. \n\nThis technique only affected interoffice multi-frequency (MF) trunks; local calls originated and terminated on the same switch. By placing a call to a non-local toll-free number, interoffice trunks were used for free. Using a blue box would then disconnect the toll-free call and let any other number be dialed. Since the phone was never physically hung up, the connection was still toll-free.\n\nAt one point in the 1960s, packets of the Cap'n Crunch breakfast cereal included a free gift: a small whistle that (by coincidence) generated a 2600 Hz tone when one of the whistle's two holes was covered. The phreaker Captain Crunch adopted his nickname from this whistle. Others would utilize exotic birds such as canaries that are able to hit the 2600 Hz tone to the same effect.\n\nIn the 1970s and 80s some trunks were modified to filter out SF tone arriving from a caller. Later in the 20th century, long-distance companies adopted the out-of-band signaling system Signaling System 7. This system separated the voice and signaling channels, making it impossible to generate these signals from an ordinary phone line.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932320", "title": "Null dust solution", "text": "Null dust solution\n\nIn mathematical physics, a null dust solution (sometimes called a null fluid) is a Lorentzian manifold in which the Einstein tensor is null. Such a spacetime can be interpreted as an exact solution of Einstein's field equation, in which the only mass-energy present in the spacetime is due to some kind of massless radiation.\n\nBy definition, the Einstein tensor of a null dust solution has the form\nformula_1\nwhere formula_2 is a null vector field. This definition makes sense purely geometrically, but if we place a stress–energy tensor on our spacetime of the form\nformula_3,\nthen Einstein's field equation is satisfied, and such a stress–energy tensor has a clear physical interpretation in terms of massless radiation. The vector field specifies the direction in which the radiation is moving; the scalar multiplier specifies its intensity.\n\nPhysically speaking, a null dust describes either gravitational radiation, or some kind of nongravitational radiation which is described by a relativistic classical field theory (such as electromagnetic radiation), or a combination of these two. Null dusts include vacuum solutions as a special case.\n\nPhenomena which can be modeled by null dust solutions include:\nIn particular, a plane wave of incoherent electromagnetic radiation is a linear superposition of plane waves, all moving in the \"same\" direction but having randomly chosen phases and frequencies. (Even though the Einstein field equation is nonlinear, a linear superposition of \"comoving\" plane waves is possible.) \nHere, each electromagnetic plane wave has a well defined frequency and phase, but the superposition does not. \"Individual\" electromagnetic plane waves are modeled by null electrovacuum solutions, while an incoherent mixture can be modeled by a null dust.\n\nThe components of a tensor computed with respect to a frame field rather than the \"coordinate basis\" are often called \"physical components\", because these are the components which can (in principle) be measured by an observer.\n\nIn the case of a null dust solution, an \"adapted\" frame\n(a timelike unit vector field and three spacelike unit vector fields, respectively) can always be found in which the Einstein tensor has a particularly simple appearance:\nHere, formula_6 is everywhere tangent to the world lines of our \"adapted observers\", and these observers measure the energy density of the incoherent radiation to be formula_7.\n\nFrom the form of the general coordinate basis expression given above, it is apparent that the stress–energy tensor has precisely the same isotropy group as the null vector field formula_2. It is generated by two parabolic Lorentz transformations (pointing in the formula_9 direction) and one rotation (about the formula_9 axis), and it is isometric to the three-dimensional Lie group formula_11, the isometry group of the euclidean plane.\n\nNull dust solutions include two large and important families of exact solutions:\n\n\nThe pp-waves include the gravitational plane waves and the monochromatic electromagnetic plane wave. A specific example of considerable interest is\n\nRobinson–Trautman null dusts include the Kinnersley–Walker photon rocket solutions, which include the Vaidya null dust, which includes the Schwarzschild vacuum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932323", "title": "Segundas partes también son buenas", "text": "Segundas partes también son buenas\n\nSegundas Partes Tambien Son Buenas (\"Sequels are also good\") is a 2002 album by Franco De Vita released on the Universal label. This was De Vita's only release for the company. On the CD, he re-recorded several of his earlier hits using different Latin music styles. The disc featured De Vita's first officially released recording of \"Vuelve,\" a song he wrote that became a major hit for Ricky Martin. One new song, \"Como Decirte No,\" was a hit on the Billboard Latin music charts for De Vita.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932328", "title": "Mesoporous material", "text": "Mesoporous material\n\nA mesoporous material is a material containing pores with diameters between 2 and 50 nm, according to IUPAC nomenclature. For comparison, IUPAC defines microporous material as a material having pores smaller than 2 nm in diameter and macroporous material as a material having pores larger than 50 nm in diameter.\n\nTypical mesoporous materials include some kinds of silica and alumina that have similarly-sized mesopores. Mesoporous oxides of niobium, tantalum, titanium, zirconium, cerium and tin have also been reported. However, the flagship of mesoporous materials is mesoporous carbon, which has direct applications in energy storage devices. Mesoporous carbon has porosity within the mesopore range and this significantly increases the specific surface area. Another very common mesoporous material is activated carbon which is typically composed of a carbon framework with both mesoporosity and microporosity depending on the conditions under which it was synthesized.\n\nAccording to IUPAC, a mesoporous material can be disordered or ordered in a mesostructure. In crystalline inorganic materials, mesoporous structure noticeably limits the number of lattice units, and this significantly changes the solid-state chemistry. For example, the battery performance of mesoporous electroactive materials is significantly different from that of their bulk structure.\n\nA procedure for producing mesoporous materials (silica) was patented around 1970, and methods based on the Stöber process from 1968 were still in use in 2015. It went almost unnoticed and was reproduced in 1997. Mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSNs) were independently synthesized in 1990 by researchers in Japan. They were later produced also at Mobil Corporation laboratories and named Mobil Crystalline Materials, or MCM-41. The initial synthetic methods did not allow to control the quality of the secondary level of porosity generated. It was only by employing quaternary ammonium cations and silanization agents during the synthesis that the materials exhibited a true level of hierarchical porosity and enhanced textural properties.\n\nSince then, research in this field has steadily grown. Notable examples of prospective industrial applications are catalysis, sorption, gas sensing, ion exchange, optics, and photovoltaics.\n\nIt should be taken into account that this mesoporosity refers to the classification of nanoscale porosity, and mesopores may be defined differently in other contexts; for example, mesopores are defined as cavities with sizes in the range 30 μm–75 μm in the context of porous aggregations such as soil.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932340", "title": "Mobile Suit Gundam: Hathaway's Flash", "text": "Mobile Suit Gundam: Hathaway's Flash\n\n, also known as Mobile Suit Gundam Hathaway, is a series of novels created and written by Yoshiyuki Tomino. Officially part of the \"Gundam\" metaseries, it was first published by Kadokawa Shoten under the \"Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko\" label from February 1, 1989 to April 1, 1990 with a total of three volumes. The story revolves around Hathaway Noa, who now goes by the name Mufti Nabiyy Erin, as he starts a terrorist group to stop the abuses of the Earth Federation. The novel is notable for being the only semi-canonical \"Gundam\" work by Tomino. A three-part theatrical film adaptation was formally announced by Sunrise as part of the \"UC NexT 0100\" project. with the first film scheduled to be released in July 23, 2020.\n\nU.C.105, Twelve years after the , the Earth Federation accepts the Republic of Zeon back in the fold. However, over the next few years, the Federation's greed and distrust of spacenoids leads them to form \"Man Hunter\" units to forcefully deport underprivileged or undesirable civilians around the world to the space colonies. A terrorist organization called Mufti is led by Bright Noah's son Hathaway Noah. Hathaway, who now goes by the name Mufti Nabiyy Erin, is still haunted by his past actions and the death of Quess Paraya and reflecting upon the actions and beliefs of Char and Amuro. He started his terrorist actions against the Federation and its high officials as an act of revenge, using the new prototype unit, the RX-105 Ξ Gundam. In response, Kenneth Sleg of the Earth Federation Space Forces assembles the Circe Unit, led by Lane Aim piloting the RX-104FF Penelope in order to stop Mufti.\n\n\"Hathaway's Flash\" was first conceived by Yoshiyuki Tomino in 1988 following the production of \"\" film. However, the novel is meant more as a sequel to the novel \"Beltorchika's Children\", the second/third novel version of \"Char's Counterattack\". Moriki Yasuhiro, mechanical designer of \"Hades Project Zeorymer\", provided the mobile suit designs while character illustrator Haruhiko Mikimoto joined the project as character designer. The first novel of the series was released on February 1, 1989, the second in March 1, 1990 and the third and final one released on April 1, 1990. All three novels were released under the \"Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko\" label.\n\nA 3-part film adaptation by Sunrise was first teased back in April 2018 upon the unveiling of \"Mobile Suit Gundam Narrative\". The film was later formally announced during the Gundam 40th Anniversary press conference in November of the same year. The first film will be released on July 23, 2020. The films will be directed by Shūkō Murase, with Yasuyuki Mutou writing scripts. Hiroyuki Sawano will compose the music for all 3 movies.\n\nYoshiyuki Tomino stated on interview that \"30 years after I wrote those novels, they are finally being adapted into film. As the author, I am so happy\". He also noted that \"The real world hasn't progressed, and may even have regressed. Because of all the Gundam fans who gave this story the chance to reemerge, its themes can pierce through society today.\"\n\n\"Hathaway's Flash\" first appeared in the \"SD Gundam G Generation\" series of games by Bandai starting with \"SD Gundam G Generation F\". The series later made its \"Super Robot Wars\" debut in \"Super Robot Wars V\" in 2017.\n\nThe titular character mecha (Ξ Gundam) was released as part of Bandai's \"Gundam Fix Figuration\" line of toys starting in 2005. The title later got its own Gunpla debut, with the BB Seishi No.386 Ξ Gundam in December 2013, the High Grade Universal Century Gustav Karl in February 2019, which were released under the \"Gundam Unicorn\" line, the High Grade Universal Century Penelope, released on November 2019 and the High Grade Universal Century Messer Type F01, released in July 2020.\n"}
{"id": "1932343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932343", "title": "Tel Afek", "text": "Tel Afek\n\nTel Afek, (), also spelled Aphek and Afeq, is an archaeological site located in the coastal hinterland of the Ein Afek Nature Reserve, east of Kiryat Bialik, Israel. It is also known as Tel Kurdani.\n\nThe site is what remains of the biblical town of Aphik, which is mentioned in the and as belonging to the Tribe of Asher. According to Biblical history, this area was part of Cabul and was given to Hiram I by Solomon as a reward for various services rendered to him in building the First Temple. . \n\nThe site has remains dating back to the Chalcolithic age.\n\nThere are tombs from the Middle Bronze Age and Late Bronze Ages have been excavated here. \n\nPottery from the Persian, Hellenistic Roman, and the Byzantine eras have been found here.\n\nPottery from the Crusader times have been found here.\nIn the Crusader era, it was known as \"Recordane\", and in 1154, the mill and village was acquired the Hospitalliers. The Hospitalliers owned the water mills here for a number of years. Between 1235 and 1262 the Hospitalliers had a dispute with the Templars about water rights. \n\nTwo aqueducts, dating from this era, have been excavated.\n\nIn 1283 it was still part of the Crusader states, as it was mentioned as part of their domain in the hudna between the Crusaders based in Acre and the Mamluk sultan Qalawun.\n\nAccording to al-Maqrizi, it had come under Mamluk rule in 1291, when it was mentioned under the name of \"Kerdanah\" when sultan al-Ashraf Khalil allocated the village's income to a waqf in Cairo.\n\nA two-story fortress still stands. A water-powered flour mill operated on the lower floor.\n\nIncorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1517, it appeared under the name \"Kufrdani\" in the census of 1596, located in the \"Nahiya\" of Acca of the \"Liwa\" of Safad. The village was noted as \"hali\" (empty), but taxes were paid, a total of 1,800 akçe. All of the revenues went to a waqf. The stair to the tower roof of the mill, and two more wheel-chambers in the southern part of the mill was added in the Ottoman period.\n\nIn 1856 it was named \"Kurdany\" on the map of Southern Palestine that Heinrich Kiepert published that year.\n\nIn 1881, the PEF's \"Survey of Western Palestine\" (SWP) found at \"Kh. Khurdaneh\" (east of the mill) only heaps of stones. The name, Kh. Kurdâneh was taken to mean \"the ruin of Kurdâneh\", p.n. \n\nIn 1900, Gottlieb Schumacher found here markings on the mill which he took to be Phoenician.\n\nIn 1925 a Zionist organisation purchased 1,500 dunums in \"Kordaneh\", from Alfred Sursuk, of the Sursuk family of Beirut. At the time, there were 20 families living there.\n\nIn the 1931 census of Palestine, \"Mathanat Kurdani\" was counted under Shefa-'Amr.\n\nThe Ein Afek nature reserve, declared in 1979, covers 366 dunams. An additional 300 dunams were declared in 1994.\nThe highlights of the park include the Crusader fortress and the natural water canals and lake, which draw their waters from the year-long flowing springs of Afek, which are the source of the Naaman river.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932354", "title": "Nelson Horatio Darton", "text": "Nelson Horatio Darton\n\nNelson Horatio Darton (December 17, 1865 – February 28, 1948) was a geologist who worked for the United States Geological Survey. He was born in Brooklyn, New York, and started working in his uncle's drug business at the age of 13, also becoming a practicing chemist. His interest in geology started as a sideline, and he was hired by the U.S. Geological Survey in 1886.\n\nDarton was an expert at geological photography, a noted geologic map maker, and a hydrogeologist. He was awarded the Penrose Medal in 1940. He also made some important paleontological discoveries.\n\nHe retired in 1936 at the age of 71 but was allowed to keep his office at the USGS, and he continued an active geological career with a focus on the geology of the Washington DC area. He produced more than 200 publications and received many honors and awards. Three weeks before he died in 1948, he was still coming daily to the USGS and gave a lecture to the Geological Society of Washington on the geology of the DC area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932355", "title": "Golf (Atari 2600)", "text": "Golf (Atari 2600)\n\nGolf is a 1980 video game for the Atari VCS (later called the Atari 2600) based on the sport of the same name. It was developed by Tom Rudadahl of Atari and published by Atari, Inc. The game allows one or two players to play nine holes of simplified golf.\n\nThe area of the hole is rendered in light green, all areas outside the hole are rendered in a medium blue. On the larger holes, the green is rendered as a dark green hole circle with the hole near the center. There are several obstacles that can appear, including trees, sand traps, and water features.\n\nOn difficulty A, balls that go out of bounds stay there and must be hit back in; on difficulty B, the balls stick to the edge of the area. Balls hit near the water can soar over it, or if they land into the water, the ball is placed back where the shot was taken. Balls hit into sand traps will stick to the sides of the traps, and it takes a more powerful swing to free the ball.\n\nThe player only uses one club — the amount of time the fire button is held down determines how much power the ball will be hit with, and how far it will go. The player's golfer can be moved anywhere on the field, with his golf club always facing the ball.\n\nOn the larger hole, the goal is to hit the ball on to the green. Once the player reaches the green, the game will zoom in on the green. The green is rendered as a light green circle, with a black dot as the actual hole. Once the ball reaches a hole, the player moves on to the next hole.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932361", "title": "Preston, Nova Scotia", "text": "Preston, Nova Scotia\n\nPreston is an area in central Nova Scotia, Canada in the Halifax Regional Municipality, located on Trunk 7. Preston includes the subdivisions of East Preston, North Preston, Lake Major, Cherrybrook and Loon Lake. The definition sometimes extends to include Lake Echo. The population in 2016 was 3,223. This is a decline from 2006, when Preston had a population of 3,536.\n\nPreston, once known as Preston Township, previously was geographically much larger. The community's boundaries stretched westward past Westphal to Highway 111, and eastward through what is now Lake Echo and Porter's Lake to Myra Road (including through East Preston), north to North Preston, and south through parts to the boundaries of Lawrencetown). No community is known strictly as \"Preston\", rather it refers to the area encompassed by those subdivisions, or in reference to the Preston Electoral District.\n\nThe area is believed to have been named after Preston, Lancashire, England or Thomas Preston, a British army officer involved in the Boston Massacre at the beginning of the American Revolution. It was among the areas where the Crown granted lands to Black Loyalists from the Thirteen Colonies; it had promised them freedom and resettled more than 3,000 former slaves in Nova Scotia. Reflecting its early history, Preston has the largest percentage of black people of any area in Canada; 69.4% of its population is black.\n\nThe Black Nova Scotian leader and clergyman, Richard Preston (b. 1792), took this surname after becoming reunited here with his mother, who was resettled in Preston along with others of the 2,000 black refugee slaves who gained freedom with the British during the War of 1812 in the United States. Richard had bought his freedom from slavery in Virginia as an adult, and then went to Nova Scotia in search of his mother. He became a prominent Baptist preacher and political leader.\n\nWayne Adams, the first Black MLA and Cabinet Minister in Nova Scotia, is from East Preston. A World Heavyweight contender in boxing, Kirk Johnson, is from North Preston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932369", "title": "Riverton, Kansas", "text": "Riverton, Kansas\n\nRiverton is an unincorporated community in Cherokee County, Kansas, United States. It is located at the junction of K-66 (former U.S. Route 66) and U.S. Route 69 Alternate and U.S. Route 400, near the Spring River. It is one of only three towns in Kansas along former U.S. Route 66. As of the 2010 census, the CDP population was 929.\n\nThe first post office in Riverton was established in 1919.\n\nRiverton is located in southeastern Cherokee County near the southeastern corner of Kansas. Along K-66, Galena, Kansas, is to the east, and Joplin, Missouri, is to the east. Pittsburg, Kansas, is to the north via US 400 and US 69. Baxter Springs, Kansas, is to the southwest, and Miami, Oklahoma, is to the southwest by US 69A.\n\nThe eastern and southern edges of the CDP ars formed by the Spring River, which flows south to the Neosho River in Oklahoma. The CDP of Lowell is to the south across the Spring River.\n\nFor statistical purposes, the United States Census Bureau has defined Riverton as a census-designated place (CDP).\n\nThe famous Rainbow Bridge, about west of town, was the site where in the year 2000, musician Brad Paisley performed the song \"(Get Your Kicks on) Route 66\" for the TLC special \"Route 66: Main Street America\".\n\nThe Eisler Brothers Country Store in Riverton was one of the stops on Pixar's US 66 research trips for the 2006 film \"Cars\". The filmmakers met with Dean Walker, then president of the Kansas Route 66 Association, who is known to twist his feet backwards 180° and walk in reverse. He became one of many inspirations for the Mater character, a rusty old tow truck who teaches NASCAR rookie Lightning McQueen to drive in reverse.\n\nThe original boom truck is currently based at a restored Kan-O-Tex Service Station in nearby Galena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932383", "title": "Aletes", "text": "Aletes\n\nAletes may refer to:\n\nIn Greek mythology:\n\nIn biology:\n"}
{"id": "1932400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932400", "title": "Iphimedeia", "text": "Iphimedeia\n\nIn Greek mythology, Iphimedeia (; Ancient Greek: Ἰφιμέδεια) was the daughter of Triopas of Thessaly (a son of Poseidon and Canace). Her brothers were Erysichthon and Phorbas. She was the wife of Aloeus, who was also her uncle. She is attested in Homer's Odyssey in the catalogue of women as being a mortal.\n\nIphimedeia also fell in love with Poseidon and would often come to the sea shore and pour the sea water in her lap, until the god came and answered her feelings (cf. the story of Tyro). With Poseidon she was the mother of Otus and Ephialtes (who were called the Aloadae after their stepfather), as well as Cercyon and the bandit Sciron. One account calls Aloeus natural father of the Aloadae.\n\nWith Aloeus, Iphimedeia had a daughter Pancratis (or Pancrato), renowned for her beauty. When she and her daughter were participating in the celebration of the orgies of Dionysus, they were carried off by the companions of the Thracian Butes and brought to the island of Strongyle (later Naxos), where Pancratis was given in marriage to the new king Agassamenus and Iphimedia to a friend and lieutenant of his. Two other leaders, Sicelus and Hecetorus, had fought over Pancratis and killed each other (or else they were Scellis and Agassamenus himself). Soon after, Otus and Ephialtes, sent by Aloeus, defeated the Thracians and rescued their mother and sister; but Pancratis died not much later.\n\nAccording to Pietro Scarpi, Iphimedeia should be placed in the chthonic realm as a double of Hekate.\n\nIphimedeia was one of the heroines whose spirits Odysseus encountered at the entrance of the Underworld.\n\nHer name seems to be attested in Mycenaean Greek in the Linear B syllabic script at Pylos in the form , \"i-pe-me-de-ja\".\n\nPausanias mentions a painting of Iphimedeia by Polygnotus, and remarks that she was honored by the Carians in Mylasa.\n\nThe tomb of Iphimedeia and her sons was shown at Anthedon in Boetia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932401", "title": "De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas", "text": "De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\n\nDe Mysteriis Dom Sathanas is the debut studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. Songwriting began in 1987, but due to the suicide of vocalist Per \"Dead\" Ohlin and the murder of guitarist Øystein \"Euronymous\" Aarseth, the album's release was delayed until May 1994. \"De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\" is widely considered one of the most influential black metal albums of all time. It is the band's only studio album to feature Aarseth and Varg \"Count Grishnackh\" Vikernes.\n\nMayhem began writing songs for the album in late 1987 or early 1988, depending on the source. Vocalist Dead started to write the lyrics when he joined the band in 1988. In 1990 studio versions of the songs \"The Freezing Moon\" and \"Carnage\" were recorded, appearing on the CBR Records compilation album \"Projections of a Stained Mind\". Mayhem's drummer, Jan Axel \"Hellhammer\" Blomberg, claimed that the lyrics of \"Freezing Moon\" were \"meant to make people commit suicide\". Dead said in a 1989 interview by Marduk guitarist Morgan \"Evil\" Håkansson, published in \"Slayer\" fanzine, that by then he had written the lyrics for \"Funeral Fog\", \"Freezing Moon\", \"Buried by Time and Dust\" and \"Pagan Fears\". Finished versions of these songs appeared on the album \"Live in Leipzig\", a concert recording from November 1990 which was released in 1993.\n\nBy 1991, Dead and Euronymous were living in a house in the woods near Kråkstad, which was used by the band to rehearse. On 8 April 1991, while alone in the house, Dead slit his wrists and throat and then shot himself in the forehead with a shotgun. He left a brief suicide note, which apologized for having used the gun indoors and began with \"Excuse all the blood\". His body was found by Euronymous. Before calling the police, he allegedly went to a nearby shop and bought a disposable camera with which he photographed the body, after re-arranging some items. One of these photographs was later used as the cover of a bootleg live album titled \"Dawn of the Black Hearts\".\n\nTo record the new album, Euronymous recruited Attila Csihar (from the Hungarian band Tormentor) as vocalist and Vikernes (who performed solo as Burzum) as bassist. This lineup — Euronymous, Hellhammer, Csihar and Vikernes — recorded the album during late 1992 and early 1993 at the Grieg Hall in Bergen. According to Attila Csihar, the whole album was recorded in three days. The album itself contained no information on lineup and credits. Necrobutcher, who had left the band before the recording sessions, claimed to have written half of the songs for the album. He stated that he and Dead wrote \"Freezing Moon\" and Euronymous only contributed one riff to that song. Snorre \"Blackthorn\" Ruch (who performed solo as Thorns) wrote some of the riffs for the album and finished some of Dead's song lyrics, according to himself and Hellhammer. The main riff of the Thorns song \"Into the Promised Land\" (also called \"Lovely Children\") became the main riff of \"From the Dark Past\". According to Vikernes, Euronymous was responsible for most of the guitar riffs, but he claimed that Hellhammer, Necrobutcher and himself contributed some riffs, too.\n\nOn 10 August 1993, Vikernes and Blackthorn traveled to Euronymous's apartment in Oslo, where Vikernes stabbed Euronymous to death. He was arrested and sentenced to 21 years in prison, while Blackthorn was sentenced to 8 years for being an accomplice.\n\nDuring Vikernes's trial, police said that they had found explosives and ammunition in Vikernes's home. Euronymous and Vikernes had allegedly plotted to blow up Nidaros Cathedral, which appears on the album cover, to coincide with the album's release. Vikernes denied this allegation in a 2009 interview, saying, \"I was getting [the explosives and ammunition] in order to defend Norway if we were attacked any time. During the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union could have decided to attack us.\"\n\nAfter Euronymous's funeral, Hellhammer and Necrobutcher worked on releasing the album. Euronymous's parents asked Hellhammer to remove the bass tracks recorded by Vikernes. Hellhammer said, \"I thought it was appropriate that the murderer and victim were on the same record. I put word out that I was re-recording the bass parts, but I never did\".\n\nThe album was eventually released in May 1994, around the time that Vikernes was sentenced. It featured the last lyrics written by Dead before his suicide, and the last songs recorded by Euronymous before his murder.\n\nIn 2009, Mayhem released rough mixes of five songs from the \"De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\" recording session as the EP \"Life Eternal\".\n\nThe title \"De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\" is a Latin phrase meaning \"The Mystery of the Lord Satan\", with \"Dom\" being an abbreviation of \"Dominis\", often used as an honorific prefix for ecclesiastics of the Catholic Church. The album cover is a monochrome photo of the east side of Nidaros Cathedral in Trondheim, Norway.\n\nThe album is widely considered one of the most influential black metal albums ever. According to a long feature by \"Metal Hammer\", \"Two decades after it was recorded, it continues to top ‘best album’ lists by longtime fans of the genre, while at the same time providing primary inspiration for new bands whose members were not even born when it was recorded. There are many who would say it is the single most important album in black metal's broad and ever-growing catalogue, and very few who would argue that it is not, at the very least, a strong contender for that accolade.\" \"Metal Injection\" described it as \"one of the most essential black metal albums of all time\", writing that \"In one record, the listener is exposed to all the power, glory and contradictions inherent in Norwegian black metal, thus making it a fascinating artifact from the dark past, and an essential piece of black metal listening.\" \"De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\" was included on IGN's list of \"10 Great Black Metal Albums\". \"Metal Hammer\" named it one of the 20 best black metal albums of the '90s. \"Loudwire\" named it the 8th best extreme metal album of all time, writing that \"The riffs are unforgettable and the atmosphere is caustic and suffocating with Attila Csihar's twisted, throaty cries sending it all to hell. They also argued that the album has a \"stranglehold\" on \"black metal's legacy\". Treble Magazine named it one of the 10 essential black metal albums.\n\nIn 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\" as 40th on their list of 'The 100 Greatest Metal Albums of All Time.'\n\nWhile Mayhem's previous vocalist, Dead had been Swedish, Csihar was from Hungary. His style was somewhat atypical for Nordic black metal then, and provoked a mixed reception from fans; for example, Metalreviews.com gave him the nickname \"Attila 'Fingernails' Csihar\" (although a subsequent review by the website praised his later \"Ordo Ad Chao\"-era performances). The song \"Freezing Moon\" was included on \"Kerrang!\" 25 Extreme Metal Anthems and various songs from this album have been covered live and in studio by such bands as Dissection (Jon Nödtveidt and Ole Öhman also performed the song with Euronymous in 1991), Immortal, Dark Funeral, Carpathian Forest, Gorgoroth, Behemoth, Vader, Enslaved, Cradle of Filth and Darkmoon. \"Funeral Fog\" was covered by Emperor with Csihar on vocals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932437", "title": "Postulator", "text": "Postulator\n\nA postulator is the person who guides a cause for beatification or canonization through the judicial processes required by the Roman Catholic Church. The qualifications, role and function of the postulator are spelled out in the \"Norms to be Observed in Inquiries made by Bishops in the Causes of Saints\", which has been in effect since 7 February 1983. A petitioner seeking the beatification may appoint as postulator anyone, cleric or not, who is an expert in theological, canonical and historical matters, and versed in the practice of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, subject to the approval of the bishop. The major religious orders, such as the Franciscans, Dominicans and Jesuits, appoint members of their orders as postulators-general who are available to act for petitioners in causes and who develop reputations as experts in their field. The later stage of a cause requires the postulator to reside in Rome, which also favors the assignment of the postulator's role to such a postulator-general, since most religious orders maintain their headquarters in Rome.\n\nThe first duty of the postulator is to conduct thorough investigations into the life of the candidate for beatification. The postulator also has responsibility for administering funds collected for the cause. Like all officials who take part in a cause, the postulator is obliged to take an oath to fulfil his duty and to observe the strictest confidentiality.\n\nA postulator, instructed by the petitioner, initiates a cause by presenting to the bishop of the diocese where the candidate for beatification died, a written petition with supporting documentation. The documentation must include (i) a biography of the candidate, or at least a chronology of his life, indicating the heroic virtues and sanctity of life or the martyrdom that justifies beatification; (ii) authentic copies of all the candidate's writings; and (iii) in recent cases, a list of those persons who can help \"bring to light the truth about the virtues or the martyrdom of the [candidate], and about his or her reputation of sanctity or of signs [i.e., miracles].\" The bishop decides whether to accept the petition. If accepted, the cause must be discussed with the bishops of neighboring dioceses and publicized so that anyone with relevant information might come forward and make it known. The candidate's writings are examined to see if they present theological difficulties. If problems or obstacles emerge, the postulator is given an opportunity to resolve them. Once the way is clear for the cause to proceed, the bishop will initiate the diocesan inquiry stage of the process, which is divided into two separate areas of investigation: the inquiry into heroic virtues or martyrdom; and the inquiry into \"signs\" or miracles, normally medical in nature, that are attributed to the intercession of the candidate. The postulator identifies the relevant witnesses, but is not allowed to testify while serving as postulator. When the bishop or his delegate has completed these inquiries, the postulator has the right to examine the official record and supplement it as he needs to. The transcript of the inquiry with all relevant documentation is sent to the Congregation for the Causes of Saints. The postulator must reside in Rome for the further consideration of the cause. \n\n"}
{"id": "1932445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932445", "title": "M-57 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-57 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-57 is an east–west state trunkline highway in the US state of Michigan. The highway connects US Highway 131 (US 131) near Rockford on the west end to M-15 near Otisville in the Lower Peninsula. In between, the mostly rural highway passes through farmland and connects several highways and smaller towns together. Three of these highways are freeways: US 131, US 127 and Interstate 75 (I-75). Along the way, between 3,700 and 22,300 vehicles use the highway daily.\n\nThe current highway that bears the M-57 moniker is the second to do so. The first is now M-75 in the Northern Lower Peninsula. This second highway was designated in the 1930s along a different, but parallel, routing. The first major changes shifted that routing southward to the current corridor in stages. Through additional extensions and truncations, the modern routing was formed by the 1970s.\n\nM-57 is a rural, two-lane highway crossing the south central Lower Peninsula. The western terminus is at US 131, north of Grand Rapids near Rockford in northern Kent County. East of the terminus is Rosie's Diner, which is the original shooting location for the Bounty Paper Towel commercials of the 1970s featuring Rosie the Waitress. The diner was moved from Little Ferry, New Jersey to its current location in 1990. From Rockford, M-57 runs east through rural farmland on 14 Mile Road into southern Montcalm County. East of the county line, the highway follows Carson City Road into the outskirts of Greenville. M-57 runs through a retail corridor before becoming Washington Street in town where it meets M-91. Washington Street crosses the Flat River and exits Greenville. Continuing eastward, the trunkline passes through more farmland on Carson City Road. It meets M-66 at a rural four-way intersection before passing into Carson City near the Gratiot county line. M-57 follows Cleveland Road, passing to the south of the communities of Middleton and Perrinton. Near Pompeii, M-57 meets US 127 at a folded diamond interchange along the expressway portion of the latter highway.\n\nCleveland Road continues east running near Ashley and into Saginaw County. In between Ashley and the county line, the highway crosses a branch of the Great Lakes Central Railroad. M-57 follows Brady Road and crosses M-52 just west of Chesaning. Further east, the trunkline crosses another line of the Great Lakes Central. The highway follows Broad Street into town and over the Shiawassee River. On the east banks, M-57 runs along Main Street south along the river to a junction with Peet Road where it then turns east along the latter road out of town. The highway passes through more farm fields and through Layton Corners on the way to a junction with M-13 on the Saginaw–Genesee county line. At Montrose, M-57 crosses the Flint River, and a line of the Huron and Eastern Railway. Now running along Vienna Road, the trunkline meets I-75/US 23 west of Clio. As it enters town, it crosses a line of the Saginaw Bay Southern Railway. This segment of the highway passes through the northernmost suburbs of Flint, and this section is where the heaviest traffic levels along the whole highway are found. As part of its maintenance duties, the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) tracks these traffic levels using a metric known as average annual daily traffic (AADT). This figure is a calculation of the average traffic volume for a segment of roadway on any average day of the year. In 2009, MDOT determined that an average of 22,280 vehicles used the section of M-57 through Clio daily. East of this area, the highway once again passes through rural agricultural lands on the way to its eastern terminus at M-15, one mile (1.6 km) north of Otisville. This terminal section of the trunkline had the lowest traffic levels in 2009 at 3,737 vehicles AADT. No section of M-57 has been listed on the National Highway System, a system of roadways important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nIn 1919, the Michigan State Highway Department signposted the highway system in the state for the first time. At that time, M-57 designation was originally used in Charlevoix County from Boyne Falls at M-13 (now US 131) through Boyne City and back to then M-13. That highway's number was changed to M-75 in 1926. By the next year, the number was then assigned to a state trunkline that connected between Quinnesec and the Wisconsin state line in the Upper Peninsula. This second iteration was short-lived as it was replaced by an extension of US 141 into Michigan.\n\nIn 1930, M-57 was designated from M-66 (now M-91) near Langston to M-47 (now M-52) in St. Charles. By the mid 1936, the section between Ithaca and St. Charles was removed from the state highway system when the designation was shifted south to run between Ashley and Chesaning. In the process, M-57 was run concurrently along US 27 between Ithaca and Ashley. The western section was similarly shifting by May 1938. The new routing started at a junction with US 131 between Rockford and Cedar Springs and continued through Greenville and Carson City to Ashley. The eastern end was also extended from Chesaning to the Clio area. It was extended a second time by early 1941 to a junction with Belsay Road. By the middle of 1946, the eastern end was extended a third time to end in Otisville. M-57 was lengthened after a western extension in late 1948 or early 1949. The highway was routed concurrently with US 131 to Cedar Springs and then west to M-37 at Kent City.\n\nA new routing on the eastern end was designated in late 1956 or early 1957; this routing shifted the eastern terminus out of Otisville to its current location. The last gravel section of highway was paved near Fenmore by the Gratiot–Saginaw county line in the late 1950s. The last change to M-57's routing came in 1973. Then-Congressman Gerald R. Ford opened a section of US 131 freeway on September 21. The freeway ran between the two M-57 junctions along US 131 near Rockford and Cedar Springs. Afterwards, M-57 was truncated to the Rockford area, and the segment previously part of M-57 between Kent City and Cedar Springs was made part of M-46 afterwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932466", "title": "Phylloglossum", "text": "Phylloglossum\n\nPhylloglossum, a genus in the clubmoss family Lycopodiaceae, is a small plant superficially resembling a tiny grass plant, growing with a rosette of slender leaves 2–5 cm long from an underground bulb-like root. It has a single central stem up to 5 cm tall bearing a spore-producing cone at the apex, and was previously classified variously in the family Lycopodiaceae or in its own family the Phylloglossaceae, but recent genetic evidence demonstrates it is most closely related to the genus \"Huperzia\" and is a sister clade to the genus \"Phlegmariurus\", which was formerly included in \"Huperzia\".\n\nMorphological characters, as well as molecular characters based on \"rbc\"L data, support the close relationship of \"Phylloglossum\" to \"Huperzia\". Similarities in spore morphology, sporangial epidermis morphology, phytochemistry, and chromosome number indicate that \"Phylloglossum\" and \"Huperzia\" are closely related.\n\nA morphological character that complicates this is the presence of a perenniating tuber in \"Phylloglossum,\" which has, in the past, misled scientists to place it more closely to the genus \"Lycopodiella\". \"Phylloglossum\" is unique within Lycopodiaceae due to this perenniating tuber, which is a reduced stem system that has developed to be considered a new organ.\n\nIts gametophyte is non-photosynthetic at first, getting its nutrients from mycorrhiza, but develops a photosynthetic crown as it matures.\n\nThe only species, Phylloglossum drummondii (pygmy clubmoss), is a native of Australia (southwestern Western Australia, southern South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania) and New Zealand (North Island).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932477", "title": "Blut Aus Nord", "text": "Blut Aus Nord\n\nBlut Aus Nord (, ) is a French black metal band from Mondeville, Calvados, France, which has incorporated avant-garde elements in its music.\n\nVindsval began a solo project, under the name \"Vlad\", in 1993. He released two demos before changing the project's name to Blut aus Nord, before the release of \"Ultima Thulée\" in 1995. The next three albums were recorded with the aid of session musicians. It is only recently that the group has had any permanent members apart from Vindsval.\n\nThe project's most critically acclaimed release is \"The Work Which Transforms God\", a concept album which, in spite of being mostly instrumental with none of the lyrics made public, is meant to challenge the listener's prejudices and preconceptions about reality and various metaphysical subjects. The album was named by \"Terrorizer Magazine\" as one of its top 10 albums of 2003. So far, Vindsval has only allowed the lyrics from one of Blut aus Nord's full-length releases, \"Memoria Vetusta I\", to be made public. According to journalist Avi Pitchon, \"Blut Aus Nord are responsible, perhaps more so than any band, for the most recent evolution within black metal. 2003's 'The Work Which Transforms God' introduced us to the warped, collapsing mutation of 'black hole metal'; nowadays also called shoegazing BM.\"\n\nVindsval is head of the underground French record label Appease Me..., which is home to several extreme metal acts, in addition to Blut aus Nord.\n\nOn their follow-up release, 2006's \"MoRT\", Blut aus Nord moved even further away from traditional black metal. The sound on \"MoRT\" is closer to experimental metal, comprising a mixture of dark and surreal noises and sounds that create a disturbing and bleak atmosphere.\n\nBlut aus Nord's 2007 album \"\" (the subtitle being a quote from Aleister Crowley), was leaked to the Internet on September 10, 2007. While the album's superficial sound is similar to that of \"MoRT\", the album demonstrates a return to more traditional black metal songwriting and structure.\n\nThe sequel to \"Memoria Vetusta I\", subtitled \"Dialogue with the Stars\", was released in February 2009. In June 2010 they released a LP entitled \"What Once Was...Liber I\" on Debemur Morti Productions. They are currently scheduled to re-release The Mystical Beast of Rebellion in early 2011 thru Debemur Morti with an additional CD of newly recorded material meant to act as a complementary work to the original.\n\nThe name \"Blut aus Nord\" translates from German as \"Blood from the North\", though the non-standard grammar suggests nautical jargon (a more standard phrasing would be \"Blut aus (dem) Norden\" or \"Blut von Nord(en),\" though cardinal directions are seldom used in spoken German to begin with).\n\nThey released a split EP with Ævangelist in June 2016 through Debemur Morti Productions. Two new albums, \"Deus Salutis Meæ\" and \"Hallucinogen\", were released in 2017 and 2019 respectively.\n\nBlut Aus Nord's work has been described as the \"sonic equivalent to Thorns injecting \"Streetcleaner\"-era Godflesh with an evil unpredictability\". Vindsval, the vocalist and guitarist, made the following statement:\n\nIn addition to rejecting Satanism, BAN have distanced themselves from nationalism - another common black metal theme - instead recognising a kinship with \"environmentalist black metal\" groups such as Wolves in the Throne Room.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932484", "title": "Brinkmann coordinates", "text": "Brinkmann coordinates\n\nBrinkmann coordinates are a particular coordinate system for a spacetime belonging to the family of pp-wave metrics. They are named for Hans Brinkmann. In terms of these coordinates, the metric tensor can be written as\n\nwhere formula_2, the coordinate vector field dual to the covector field formula_3, is a null vector field. Indeed, geometrically speaking, it is a null geodesic congruence with vanishing optical scalars. Physically speaking, it serves as the wave vector defining the direction of propagation for the pp-wave.\n\nThe coordinate vector field formula_4 can be spacelike, null, or timelike at a given event in the spacetime, depending upon the sign of formula_5 at that event. The coordinate vector fields formula_6 are both spacelike vector fields. Each surface formula_7 can be thought of as a wavefront.\n\nIn discussions of exact solutions to the Einstein field equation, many authors fail to specify the intended range of the coordinate variables formula_8. Here we should take\n\nformula_9\n\nto allow for the possibility that the pp-wave develops a null curvature singularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932495", "title": "Mise en place", "text": "Mise en place\n\nMise en place () is a French culinary phrase which means \"putting in place\" or \"everything in its place\". It refers to the setup required before cooking, and is often used in professional kitchens to refer to organizing and arranging the ingredients (e.g., cuts of meat, relishes, sauces, par-cooked items, spices, freshly chopped vegetables, and other components) that a cook will require for the menu items that are expected to be prepared during a shift.\n\nThe practice can be applied in home kitchens.\n\nThe writer and chef Dan Charnas uses the concept of mise en place as a \"philosophy\" and \"system\" for what chefs believe and do, even going so far as to call it an \"ethical code\". In the kitchen, the phrase is used as a noun (i.e., the setup of the array of ingredients), a verb (i.e., the process of preparing) and a state of mind. All of these uses, however, refer to someone who knows to be well-prepared. In this view, the term's broader meanings can be applied to classrooms, hospitals, and elsewhere.\n\nThe term has also been used outside of cooking: psychologists Weisberg, \"et al.\", used the phrase to refer to \"how one's stance towards a given environment places constraints on what one feels able to do within that environment, and how these assessments and predispositions impact the process of preparing to act.\" They used the term in a study of how a school became safer after security measures — like metal detectors and bars on the windows — were removed, leading to the unexpected outcome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932496", "title": "Bergenhus Fortress", "text": "Bergenhus Fortress\n\nBergenhus fortress () is a fortress located in Bergen, Norway. Located at the entrance of Bergen harbour, the castle is one of the oldest and best preserved stone fortifications in Norway.\n\nThe fortress contains buildings dating as far back as the 1240s, as well as later constructions built as recently as World War II. The extent of the enclosed area of today dates from the early 19th century. In medieval times, the area of the present-day Bergenhus Fortress was known as \"Holmen\" and contained the royal residence in Bergen, as well as a cathedral, several churches, the bishop's residence, and a Dominican monastery. Excavations have revealed foundations of buildings believed to date back to before 1100, which might have been erected by King Olav Kyrre. In the 13th century, until 1299, Bergen was the capital of Norway and Holmen was thus the main seat of Norway's rulers. It was first enclosed by stone walls in the 1240s.\n\nOf the medieval buildings, a medieval hall and a defensive tower remain. The royal hall, today known as Haakon's Hall, was built around 1260., The defensive tower, was built around 1270 and contained a royal apartment on the top floor. In the 1560s, it was incorporated into a larger structure, which is today known as the Rosenkrantz Tower.\nIn the Middle Ages, several churches, including Bergen's cathedral Christ Church (\"Kristkirken på Holmen i Bergen\"), were situated on the premises. These were torn down between 1526 and 1531, as the area of Holmen was converted into a purely military fortification under Danish rule. From around this time, the name \"Bergenhus\" came into use. Building work on Christ Church probably started around 1100. It contained the shrine of Saint Sunniva, the patron saint of Bergen. In the 12th and 13th centuries it was the site of several royal coronations and weddings. It was also the burial site of at least six kings, as well as other members of the royal family. The site of its altar is today marked by a memorial stone.\n\nIn the 19th century, the fortress lost its function as a defensive fortification, but it was retained by the military as an administrative base. After restoration in the 1890s, and again after destruction sustained during World War II, Bergenhus is today again used as a concert venue and as a feast hall for public events. During World War II, the German navy used several of its buildings for their headquarters, and they also constructed a large concrete bunker within the fortress walls. The buildings, including Haakon's Hall, were severely damaged during World War II but the buildings were later restored.\n\nBergenhus is currently under the command of the Royal Norwegian Navy, which has about 150 military personnel stationed there. The fortifications Sverresborg fortress and Fredriksberg fortress also lie in the centre of Bergen. Haakon's Hall and Rosenkrantz Tower are open for visits by the public. Koengen, the central part of Bergenhus Fortress is also known as a concert venue. \n\"Haakon's Hall\" () is a medieval stone hall located inside the fortress. The hall was constructed in the middle of the 13th century, during the reign of King Håkon Håkonsson (1217–1263). In medieval times, it was the largest building of the royal palace in Bergen. It is the largest secular medieval building in Norway and the likely inspiration to similar great halls that were built on the royal estates in Oslo and Avaldsnes.\nNo written records survive of the construction of the hall. According to Håkon Håkonsson's saga the building was not there at the coronation of King Håkon in 1247. It does, however, state that it was used during the wedding celebrations of King Magnus Håkonsson and the Danish princess Ingebjørg Eriksdatter on 11 September 1261. The hall is built in Gothic style. In addition to the great hall, there were two more levels, a cellar and a middle floor. The hall's similarity to English structures of the same time, and the fact that monumental stone building was relatively uncommon in Norway at the time, has led to an assumption that the hall was designed by English architects, possibly the court architect of King Henry III of England, with whom King Håkon was on friendly terms.\n\nThe hall has been hit by several fires, the first one as early as 1266. Upon the death of King Eirik Magnusson in 1299, Bergen lost its status as the main royal residence. From 1380 until 1814, Norway was in a personal union with Denmark, which meant that the royal castle in Bergen gradually fell into decay. In 1429 it was captured and burnt by the Victual Brothers (\"viktualiebrødrene\"), but a new stone portal from the mid-15th century shows that the hall was rebuilt after this event. Soon after, however, as the old royal residence was transformed into a purely military fortress, the Hall was turned into a storage building.\n\nBy the 18th century, its original function had been largely forgotten. However, the 19th century saw the rise of Norwegian romantic nationalism as the country gradually regained its independence. As a result, the independent medieval kingdom was used as a source of new national symbols to rally around. In 1840, it was proven that the great stone building in Bergenhus fortress was, in fact, King Håkon Håkonsson's old feast hall. For the next half century, its restoration back to its original function was debated. Henrik Ibsen wrote a poem in the hall's honor, and poet Henrik Wergeland first used the name \"Haakons hall\" in one of his poems. The hall was finally restored in the 1890s, and in the 1910s it was decorated with frescos with motives from \"Håkon Håkonsson's saga\", and stained glass windows.\n\nThe hall was severely damaged on 20 April 1944, when the wooden roof caught fire and burnt up. The fire also destroyed all the decorations from the first restoration. A second restoration took place in the 1950s, and the hall was reopened on 11 September 1961, the 700th anniversary of its first use. It is now decorated more discreetly, primarily with tapestries. Haakon's Hall is now administered by the Bergen City Museum, which also takes care of Rosenkrantz Tower and other protected buildings in the city. The hall is occasionally used for concerts, especially choir song and chamber music, and for banquets, mainly for official functions.\n\n\"Rosenkrantz Tower\" () is a tower that derives its name from governor Erik Rosenkrantz (1519-1575) who was governor of Bergenhus Fortress from 1560 to 1568. During his administration, the tower received its present shape and structure. The oldest part of the building is made up of a medieval tower built during the reign of King Magnus the Lawmender in the 1270s as part of the royal castle in Bergen.\n\nThe keep was slightly modified circa 1520, then extensively modified and expanded in the 1560s by Scottish stonemasons and architects in the service of Erik Rosenkrantz to attain its present form. Rosenkrantz' building contained dungeons on the ground floor, residential rooms for the governor higher up, and positions for cannons on the top floor. In the 1740s, the tower was converted to a magazine for gunpowder, a function it served until the 1930s. The whole building has been open to the general public since 1966. Today, the tower serves primarily as a tourist attraction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932497", "title": "Panguingue", "text": "Panguingue\n\nPanguingue (pronounced pan-geen-ee), Tagalog Pangginggí, also known as Pan, is a 19th-century gambling card game probably of Philippine origin similar to rummy, first described in America in 1905. It used to be particularly popular in Las Vegas and other casinos in the American southwest. Its popularity has been waning, and it is now only found in a handful of casinos in California, in house games and at online poker sites.\n\nThe game is traditionally played using a 320-card deck, constructed from eight decks of playing cards, removing all eights, nines, tens, and Jokers. In some localities, 5, 6, or 11 decks are used, and often one set of spades is removed.\n\nEach player pays an ante of one chip, called the \"top\". The value of the top sets the value of all pays in the game. Some high-stakes games are played with a two-chip ante, which is called \"double tops\". The rotation of dealing and playing is to the right, not to the left as in most card games. Each player receives 10 cards. Beginning with the eldest hand, each player either folds their hand (\"going out on top\") or agrees to play. The player who folds loses their top. If all but one fold, the final player receives the tops, and the hand is over. Some games by agreement do not use an ante. Players merely pay points called \"beans\" to players as they play melds onto the board. If the player does not request their beans prior to discarding, the other players are not obligated to pay them.\n\nPlayers try to form melds. A meld consists of three or four cards of the same rank (e.g., three 6s), or in sequence (3, 4, 5) (sequences are called \"ropes\" or \"stringers\"). All the cards in a rope must be the same suit, but rank melds require either three cards of the same suit or three different suits. The exception for rank melds is Aces and Kings (\"non-comoquers\") any three of which can form a meld (e.g. two Aces of Hearts and an Ace of Diamonds).\n\nCertain melds are called \"conditions\", and when formed result in the payment of chips to the melder from all active players (those who did not go out on top).\n\nWhen playing with two players an alternate method of keeping score is to use the \"set over\" method. Rather than paying beans to each other, each player starts with a stack of beans to their left then they pay beans to themselves as they play melds. These beans are kept with the melds until the end of the hand when they are transferred to the right. The first player to move their stack from left to right is the winner.\n\nTwo of three cards in a rank spade valle card meld are called a wagon. Being unable to play a wagon with a matching spade during the course of a hand is called being \"peckered\"\n\nBeing dealt a playable meld is called being dealt a one, two or four bean \"patsy\" depending on value.\n\nIn Panguingue, 3's, 5's and 7's are also known as 'valle' cards, or cards of value. The following melds are conditions (have value):\n\n\nExtra cards in a same-suit meld are worth additional points.\n\nPlay consists of taking a card from the top of the stock, or the top of the discard pile. Once a player touches the stack, they are not allowed to then use the discard pile instead. The card must be used in a valid meld (which must be placed on the table) or immediately discarded (unlike other rummy-style games, you cannot add the card to your hand and discard another). If a card is discarded that fits an open meld, that card must be used (Forcing). Discards which play on the next players melds may be forced onto the next player if they were picked from the stack rather than being discarded from a players hand.\n\nNote that one cannot put down a meld or condition (and/or collect chip payments) unless he can use the top of the stock or the top of the discards.\n\nWhen one player melds 11 cards—his original ten plus one more (\"going out\") that player receives the tops, plus additional payment from the active players for all his valid conditions, plus two points for going out.\n\nThere are some who play fifteen-card pan, more commonly referred to as \"Fifteen\" or \"Pip\". It works the same as the traditional game, except players receive fifteen cards to begin with and going out requires sixteen cards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932500", "title": "HeightMax", "text": "HeightMax\n\nHeightMax Concentrate and HeightMax Plus were purported height-enhancing pills for children and young adults marketed by Sunny Health Nutrition Technology & Products, Inc. The Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint against the company and its owner, leading to the product being discontinued and a fine paid.\n\nOn or about November 21, 2006, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) filed a complaint against Sunny Health Nutrition Technology & Products, Inc. and its owner, Sunny Sia, charging the defendants with making false and unsubstantiated claims for HeightMax Concentrate and HeightMax Plus, as well as for two other supplements, Liposan Ultra Chitosan Fat Blocker and Osteo-Vite. The FTC complaint charged that claims for the pills were unsubstantiated or false and that the defendants invented William Thomson, a supposed expert who appeared in the advertisements. According to the complaint, the advertisements for HeightMax Concentrate and HeightMax Plus misrepresented that:\n\n\nThe FTC complaint also alleged that the defendants made unsubstantiated or false claims for Liposan Ultra Chitosan Fat Blocker, a weight loss supplement, and Osteo-Vite, marketed to older consumers for bone-building.\n\nTo settle the charges, defendants Sunny Health Nutrition Technology & Products, Inc. and its owner, Sunny Sia, agreed to pay $375,000 in consumer redress. The settlement also held the defendants potentially liable for $1.9 million in the event that they misrepresented their finances. The order to settle the FTC's charges requires that claims for any dietary supplement, food, or drug must be true, non-misleading, and substantiated. In addition, it prohibits the defendants from misrepresenting endorsements, including the existence or expertise of any endorser.\n\nOn November 30, 2006 the Honorable Susan C. Bucklew, Federal District Court Judge, signed a Stipulated Judgment requiring defendants to pay $375,000 based on the accuracy of sworn financial statements. The Judgment included an avalanche clause, requiring payment of full redress for $1.9 million if the financial statements were not accurate.\n\nOn April 24, 2007, the FTC announced that the defendants shall be required to pay the full $1.9 Million after hidden assets were discovered. In the settlement, the $1.6 million balance of the judgment had been suspended based on sworn financial disclosure documents showing inability to pay. Shortly after that settlement, the FTC discovered that the defendants kept at least $1.8 million in an undisclosed PayPal account. The FTC immediately obtained a temporary restraining order to freeze the funds, which was granted on December 8, 2006. The defendants were ordered to pay the entire $1.9 million.\n\nJudge Bucklew's new order, signed on February 22, 2007, and agreed to by the defendants, required them to pay the entire $1.9 million, using the funds in the account at PayPal and other sources if necessary. The conduct prohibitions from the previously entered order remain unchanged. The FTC set up a refund program for HeightMax purchasers, using the money collected.\n"}
{"id": "1932507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932507", "title": "Coral Browne", "text": "Coral Browne\n\nCoral Edith Browne (23 July 1913 – 29 May 1991) was an Australian-American stage and screen actress. Her extensive theatre credits included Broadway productions of \"Macbeth\" (1956), \"The Rehearsal\" (1963) and \"The Right Honourable Gentleman\" (1965). She won the 1984 BAFTA TV Award for Best Actress for the BBC TV film \"An Englishman Abroad\" (1983). Her film appearances included \"Auntie Mame\" (1958), \"The Killing of Sister George\" (1968), \"The Ruling Class\" (1972) and \"Dreamchild\" (1985). She was also actor Vincent Price's third wife.\n\nCoral Edith Browne was the only daughter of Leslie Clarence Brown (1890–1957), and Victoria Elizabeth Brown (1890–?), née Bennett. She and her two brothers were raised in Footscray, a suburb of Melbourne.\n\nShe studied at the National Gallery Art School. Her amateur debut was as \"Gloria\" in Shaw's \"You Never Can Tell\", directed by Frank Clewlow.\nGregan McMahon snapped her up for her professional debut as \"Margaret Orme\" in \"Loyalties\" at Melbourne's Comedy Theatre on 2 May 1931, aged 17. She was still billed as \"Brown\", the \"e\" being added in 1936.\n\nAt the age of 21, with just £50 on her and a letter of introduction to famed actress Marie Tempest from Gregan McMahon, she emigrated to England where she became established as a stage actress, notably as leading lady to Jack Buchanan in Frederick Lonsdale's \"The Last of Mrs Cheyney\", W. Somerset Maugham's \"Lady Frederick\" and Alan Melville's \"Castle in the Air\". She was a regular performer in productions at the Savoy Theatre in London and was resident in the hotel for many years, including throughout World War II. When the original British touring production of \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\" ran into financial difficulty and could not be produced in London, Browne borrowed money from her dentist and bought the rights to the play, successfully staging it at the Savoy. She received royalties from the play from all future productions.\n\nShe began film acting in 1936, with her more famous roles being Vera Charles in \"Auntie Mame\" (1958), Mercy Croft in \"The Killing of Sister George\" (1968), and Lady Claire Gurney in \"The Ruling Class\" (1972). Her television debut came in January 1938, when she appeared in a BBC Television production of \"The Billiard Room Mystery\". Throughout her career, she was a regular performer on BBC Radio and appeared in numerous radio dramas, including \"Dinner at Eight\", \"The Second Mrs. Tanqueray\", \"The Caspary Affair\", \"The Tragedy of Othello\", \"Oedipus The King\", \"Hamlet\", \"The Infernal Machine\", \"Two Mothers\", \"Captain Brassbound's Conversion\" and \"The Eyes of Youth\" amongst many others. In 1961, Browne was the featured castaway on \"Desert Island Discs\", hosted by Roy Plomley. Television plays for the BBC included \"Charley's Aunt\" in 1969, \"Lady Windermere's Fan\" in 1972, \"Mrs. Warren's Profession\" also in 1972 and \"The Importance of Being Earnest\" in 1974.\n\nIn 1969, Browne appeared in the poorly received original production of Joe Orton's controversial farce \"What the Butler Saw\" in the West End at the Queen's Theatre with Sir Ralph Richardson, Stanley Baxter, and Hayward Morse.\n\nWhile touring the Soviet Union in a Shakespeare Memorial Theatre (later the Royal Shakespeare Company) production of \"Hamlet\" in 1958, she met the spy Guy Burgess. This meeting became the basis of Alan Bennett's script for the television movie \"An Englishman Abroad\" (1983) in which Browne played herself, apparently including some of her conversations with Burgess. Burgess, who had found solace in his exile by continually playing the music of Jack Buchanan, asked Browne if she had known Buchanan. \"I suppose so\", the actress replied, \"we nearly got married\". On the BFI TV 100, a list compiled in 2000 by the British Film Institute (BFI), chosen by a poll of industry professionals, to determine what were the greatest British television programmes of any genre ever to have been screened, \"An Englishman Abroad\" was listed at No. 30.\n\nHer other notable film of this period, \"Dreamchild\" (1986) concerned the author Lewis Carroll. In the film, Browne gave an affecting account of the later life of Alice Liddell who had inspired the tale \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\".\n\nBrowne married actor Philip Pearman in 1950, and remained married to him until his death in 1964. While making the film \"Theatre of Blood\" (1973), she met actor Vincent Price; they married on 24 October 1974. They appeared together in a short-lived 1979 CBS TV series, \"Time Express\", as well as an earlier international stage adaptation of \"Ardèle\" which played in the US as well as in London at the Queen's Theatre. During this run, Browne & Price starred together in a BBC Radio play \"Night of the Wolf\" first airing in 1975.\n\nShe became a naturalized United States citizen in 1987 as a gift to Price who later converted to Catholicism for her (she had converted many years previously).\n\nBrowne died on 29 May 1991 in Los Angeles, California, from breast cancer; she was 77. After her death, she was cremated and her ashes were scattered in the Rose Garden at Hollywood Forever Cemetery. She had no children from her marriages. Price died two years later.\n\nBrowne was awarded the BAFTA Television Award for Best Actress 1984 for her role in \"An Englishman Abroad\". She later received the London Evening Standard British Film Awards for Best Actress in 1986 for \"Dreamchild\". In 1976, the Los Angeles Theatre Critics named her Best Actress for her role in \"Travesties\" at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles.\n\nWhen told by the Royal Shakespeare Company that there was no suitable role in their upcoming production of \"King Lear\" for her husband, Philip Pearman, she demanded a script and running through it she found the page she was looking for. \"There you are\", she said, \"the perfect part. A small camp near Dover.\"\n\nBrowne's language was colourful, and an unauthorized biography of her, \"This Effing Lady\", was published. She was a devout Catholic (by conversion). The two aspects came together in a story of her standing outside Brompton Oratory after Sunday mass when an actor came up to her with gossip about who was sleeping with someone else's wife. She stopped him in his tracks with: \"I don't want to hear this filth. Not with me standing here in a state of fucking grace.\"\n\nAlan Bennett: \"When I said to Coral that I’d thought [Cecil] Beaton was gay she remarked, 'Not when he was with me, darling. Like a rat up a drainpipe.'\"\n\nThe younger Australian performer Barry Humphries paid tribute to Browne at her memorial service with an appropriate poem: \"She left behind an emptiness/A gap, a void, a trough/The world is quite a good deal less/Since Coral Browne fucked off.\"\n\n\nIn 2018, an Australian stage play \"Coral Browne - This F***ing Lady\" was staged by Maureen Sherlock starring Genevieve Mooy as Browne.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932530", "title": "Huperzia selago", "text": "Huperzia selago\n\nHuperzia selago, the northern firmoss or fir clubmoss, is a vascular plant in the family Lycopodiaceae. It has a circumpolar distribution in temperate and boreal regions in both hemispheres.\n\nIt is found in the northern parts of North America, Europe, and Asia. It is found in sandy pits, ditches, along lakeshores, and in conifer swamps.\n\nIn Europe, its range extends from Svalbard to the mountains of northern Spain and Italy, and from the British Isles east through central Asia to the Kamchatka peninsula, Japan, the Aleutian Islands, North America, Greenland and Iceland.\n\nIn the northeastern United States, it is found in boreal habitat, but not alpine zones. \n\n\"Upper Tanana Indians used the whole plant in a poultice applied to the head for headaches\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1932541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932541", "title": "Chao Meng-Fu (crater)", "text": "Chao Meng-Fu (crater)\n\nChao Meng-Fu is a diameter crater on Mercury named after the Chinese painter and calligrapher Zhao Mengfu (1254–1322). Due to its location near Mercury's south pole (132.4° west, 87.3° south) and the planet's small axial tilt, an estimated 40% of the crater lies in permanent shadow. This combined with bright radar echoes from the location of the crater leads scientists to suspect that it may shelter large quantities of ice protected against sublimation into the near-vacuum by the constant temperatures.\n\nRadar studies involving Arecibo (Puerto Rico), Goldstone (California, United States), and the Very Large Array (New Mexico, United States) detected a number of highly-radar-reflective depolarized areas on Mercury, including several locations at the planet's poles. Many of these reflective features appear to coincide with craters imaged by \"Mariner 10\", with the largest feature at the south pole corresponding to Chao Meng-Fu crater.\n\nThe luminosity and depolarization of the radar reflections are much more characteristic of ice than of the silicate rocks making up Mercury's crust. Still, these reflections are too dim to be pure ice; it has been hypothesized that this is due to a thin or partial layer of powder over the underlying ice. However, with no direct confirmation, it is always possible that the observed radar reflectivity from Chao Meng-Fu and similar craters is due to depositions of metal-rich minerals and compounds. NASA's \"MESSENGER\" mission may have provided additional evidence for or against the presence of ice.\n\nChao Meng-Fu's ice may have originated from impacts of water-rich meteorites and comets or from internal outgassing. Due to bombardment by the solar wind and intense light from the Sun, ice deposits on most of Mercury would be rapidly lost to space; in the permanently shadowed portions of Chao Meng-Fu, though, temperatures are too low to permit appreciable sublimation and ice may well have accumulated over billions of years.\n\nA geothermally heated ocean beneath Chao Meng-Fu crater serves as the home of an alien species in Stephen Baxter's Vacuum Diagrams.\n\nGerald Nordley's short story \"Crossing Chao Meng-Fu\" depicts rock-climbers struggling to traverse the crater.\n\nMark Anson's novel \"Below Mercury\" is set in an abandoned ice mine below Chao Meng-fu crater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932546", "title": "Louis Pasteur Middle School", "text": "Louis Pasteur Middle School\n\nLouis Pasteur Middle School may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932547", "title": "Chronicon (Eusebius)", "text": "Chronicon (Eusebius)\n\nThe Chronicon or Chronicle (Greek: Παντοδαπὴ ἱστορία \"Pantodape historia\", \"Universal history\") was a work in two books by Eusebius of Caesarea. It seems to have been compiled in the early 4th century. It contained a world chronicle from Abraham until the vicennalia of Constantine I in A.D. 325. Book 1 contained sets of extracts from earlier writers; book 2 contained a technically innovative list of dates and events in tabular format.\n\nThe original Greek text is lost, although substantial quotations exist in later chronographers. Both books are mostly preserved in an Armenian translation. Book 2 is entirely preserved in the Latin translation by Jerome. Portions also exist in quotation in later Syriac writers such as the fragments by James of Edessa and, following him, Michael the Syrian.\n\nThe \"Chronicle\" as preserved extends to the year 325, and was written before the \"Church History\".\n\nThe work was composed divided into two parts. The first part (Greek, \"Chronographia\", \"Annals\") gives a summary of universal history from the sources, arranged according to nations. The second part (Greek, \"Chronikoi kanones\", \"Chronological Canons\") furnishes a synchronism of the historical material in parallel columns, the equivalent of a parallel timeline, where each line is a year. It is the longest preserved list of Olympic victors, containing however mainly the stadion (running race) winners from 776 B.C. to A.D. 217. These tables have been completely preserved in a Latin translation by Jerome and both parts are still extant in an Armenian translation.\n\nThe work may be reconstructed from later chronographists of the Byzantine, especially George Syncellus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932549", "title": "Buttock cleavage", "text": "Buttock cleavage\n\nButtock cleavage is minor exposure of the buttocks and the intergluteal cleft between them, often because of low-rise pants.\n\nThe crena is another formal term for the cleft between the buttocks, and the medical term is posterior rugae.\n\nWhen faced with indecency issues back in the 1930s, W.G. Cassidy explained in an essay titled \"Private Parts: A Judicial View\" that exposure of a buttock cleavage may come under \"other private parts\" in Australian law, though indecency generally involves exposure of the genital area.\n\nIn the early 2000s it became fashionable for young women and men to expose their buttocks this way, often in tandem with low rise jeans. \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" called it the \"new cleavage\", and expressed views that \"It's virtually impossible to find jeans to cover your hipbone\". In August 2001, \"The Sun\" celebrated a \"bum cleavage week\" claiming that \"bums are the new tits\". In reaction to this trend, \"Saturday Night Live\" aired a parody advertisement in their April 16, 2006 episode for a product called \"Neutrogena Coin Slot Cream\", in which host Lindsay Lohan appeared.\n\nBritish designer Alexander McQueen was particularly mentioned as the originator of buttock cleavage-revealing jeans, known as the \"bumster\", in cultural critique Sheila Jeffreys' \"Beauty and Misogyny: Harmful Cultural Practices in the West\". United States Patent 6473908 from 2002 registers a design for trousers with a removable buttock cleavage-revealing portion. In the mid-2000s, \"Good Morning America\" reported on a rise of popularity of the buttock cleavage among celebrities.\n\nIn 2010s, media reported rise in popularity among females of ultra-short miniskirts and shorts, which publicly exposed underbuns (i.e. lower part of buttocks - also referred as underbutts or \"reverse buttock cleavage\"), due to endorsement by celebrities such as Lady Gaga.\n\nThe terms \"plumber butt\" or \"plumber's crack\" (Canadian, Australian, and American English) and \"builder's bum\" (British English) refer to the exposure of male buttock cleavage, especially on occasions of careless bending over. The expression \"builder's bum\" was first recorded in 1988. The terms are based on the popular impression that work in these professions frequently involves bending over in locations where bystanders are observing from the rear.\n\nIn the Netherlands the term and in Germany and in Poland is used, which can be translated as \"builder's/mason's/plumber's cleavage\". In France, it is usually referred to as , which translates to \"the plumber's smile\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1932553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932553", "title": "Kent School District", "text": "Kent School District\n\nThe Kent School District #415 is a public school district in the U.S. state of Washington. The district includes a large area of Kent, a significant portion of unincorporated King County, all of Covington, and portions of Auburn, Black Diamond, Maple Valley, Renton, and SeaTac. Covering , the Kent School District has 40 schools (28 elementary schools, six middle schools, two academy schools, and four high schools). With 26,891 enrolled students, it is the 4th largest school district in the state of Washington. The district employs 3,389 staff members, of whom 1,687 are teachers.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, the school district completed a transition from junior high schools to middle schools. The 2004–2005 school year was the first year the ninth grade was at the high school level.\n\nGrades K-6\nFor the 2013-2014 school year there were 27,484 students. 52.4% were male 47.6% were female. The racial makeup was 37.8% Caucasian, 20.9% Hispanic, 17.3% Asian/Pacific Islander, 12.2% African American and 0.6% American Indian.\n\nOn July 23, 1997, the American Civil Liberties Union of Washington filed a lawsuit against the Kent School District and five administrators on behalf of a former student, Mark Iversen. The suit alleged that the Kent School District and the administration failed to protect Iversen against anti-gay harassment. Also named in the suit were Superintendent Jim Hager, Assistant Superintendent Gwen Dupree, Principal Doug Boushey (Kent Junior High), Ben Dillard (Kent-Meridian High School) and Tom Watson (Kentwood High). The school district denied the allegations.\n\nIn the suit, Iversen claimed that he was harassed from the 7th grade at Kent Junior High up to high school at Kent-Meridian. He left Kent-Meridian to attend Kentwood believing things would change, but they did not. Other incidents include:\n\nDuring the lawsuit, it was alleged by a family friend that he was given a subpoena at their place of employment and then had pictures taken without their permission. A witness for the defense who was still a student alleges that he was taken out of classes during the litigation and given breakfast, lunches and coffees for his participation and cooperation. A former boyfriend, who was also called to be a defense witness, claims the district attorneys sent him flowers and gifts for his cooperation, but when it was discovered he and Iversen were back together shortly before settlement talks and trial, he was dropped as a witness. No confirmation on the truth or fiction has been made.\n\nThe lawsuit was settled in 1999 for $40,000.00 and a guarantee from the district that there would be training on the subject of anti-gay harassment. The district had refused to add sexual orientation to their harassment policy, stating that their current policy has enough explanation. On 11 September 2002, the district adopted a new policy from RCW 9A.36.080(3) that does include the term \"sexual orientation.\"\n\nThere have been numerous stories since the settlement (the most recent occurring in September 2005) about ongoing harassment with students who seek help but the district still ignores them. The Kent School District has been acknowledged nationally for their efforts to combat racial discrimination and diversity for minorities.\n\nIn 2000, student Nick Emmett of Kentlake High School published a website on his private America Online account that depicted students and teachers being voted on who would die. Students in the school knew about the site and many encouraged the participation. Many wanted to be voted as the next “victim” however staff were not amused and demanded Emmett close the website. Many students were suspended and the ACLU took on the case.\n\nIt was ruled that the school district could not punish students for their freedom of speech outside of school and was told it could do nothing about it. The site has since been removed.\n\nOn November 5, 2004, the Seattle branch of the NAACP filed suit against the Kent School District on behalf of 13 families, alleging that district security officers used excessive force against 15 black students.\n\nThe suit, filed in King County Superior Court, names the Kent School District, superintendent Barbara Grohe and school security officer Gayle Mangino as defendants.\n\nIn the suit, the families say district security officers used metal handcuffs to restrain students, threw them against lockers or on the floor, pulled their hair or used painful pressure holds to force students to comply. The suit also alleges black students were disciplined at a disproportionate rate than other students.\n\nThe families also accuse Grohe of negligence, and say she failed to properly supervise district security officers.\n\nKent School District spokeswoman Becky Hanks said district administrators had not had a chance to thoroughly review the lawsuit, but said the suit was without merit.\n\nThe lawsuit was dismissed in May 2005.\n\nIn April 2003, students at Kentridge High School south of Seattle filed a lawsuit against their school after being blocked from starting a Bible club. The students say their First Amendment rights had been violated by the school district.\n\nSeptember 2002, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals confirmed that Bible clubs are allowed to seek ASB sponsorship as any other club may lawfully do, be it Chess club or Muslim club. The court made this decision on the basis that it was a government exclusion of beliefs when the Bethel School District in Spanaway, Washington denied students the option of peacefully organizing outside of school hours a few years ago.\n\nIn August 2005, the Washington State Labor Board filed suit against the Kent School District for violating labor laws by using special needs children as \"slave labor\" building IKEA furniture for school employees and their friends and family.\n\nThe case was decided in favor of the labor board and an injunction was ordered preventing the school district from having special needs children from performing any activities related to the lawsuit. It is currently pending appeal with the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals\n\nOn August 26, 2009, teachers in the school district went on strike, for reasons including teacher and student rights and less meetings so teachers can spend more time helping their students. Out of 1,700 teachers, 1,500, 86%, agreed on a strike, while 14% did not.\n\nThere are many rivalries between schools in such a large district, some more competitive than others.\n\nThe schools are located mere miles from each other and the teams generally have very competitive games.\nAn annual event known as the Cov-Town Throwdown\nContinuously battling for the league title\n\n"}
{"id": "1932555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932555", "title": "Civil War reenactment", "text": "Civil War reenactment\n\nCivil War reenactment may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1932563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932563", "title": "Curiate Assembly", "text": "Curiate Assembly\n\nThe Curiate Assembly (\"comitia curiata\") was the principal assembly during the first two decades of the Roman Republic. During these first decades, the people of Rome were organized into thirty units called \"Curiae\". The Curiae were ethnic in nature, and thus were organized on the basis of the early Roman family, or, more specifically, on the basis of the thirty original patrician (aristocratic) clans. The Curiae formed an assembly for legislative, electoral, and judicial purposes. The Curiate Assembly passed laws, elected Consuls (the only elected magistrates at the time), and tried judicial cases. Consuls always presided over the assembly. While plebeians (commoners) could participate in this assembly, only the patricians (the Roman aristocrats) could vote.\n\nSince the Romans used a form of direct democracy, citizens, and not elected representatives, voted before each assembly. As such, the citizen-electors had no power, other than the power to cast a vote. Each assembly was presided over by a single Roman Magistrate, and as such, it was the presiding magistrate who made all decisions on matters of procedure and legality. Ultimately, the presiding magistrate's power over the assembly was nearly absolute. The only check on that power came in the form of vetoes handed down by other magistrates, and decisions made by presiding magistrates could also be vetoed by higher-ranking magistrates. In addition, after 493 BC, any decision made by a presiding magistrate, including one concerning the Curiate Assembly, could be vetoed by a magistrate known as a plebeian tribune, or tribune of the plebs.\n\nIn the Roman system of direct democracy, primary types of gatherings were used to vote on legislative, electoral, and judicial matters. The first was the Assembly (\"comitia\", literally \"going together\" or \"meeting place\"). The Curiate Assembly was a \"comitia\". Assemblies represented \"all citizens\", even if they excluded the plebs like the Curiate Assembly did, and were used for official purposes, such as for the enactment of statutes. Acts of an Assembly applied to all Roman citizens. The second type of gathering was the Council (\"concilium\"), which was a forum where a specific class of citizen met. In contrast, the Convention (\"conventio\", literally \"coming together\") was an unofficial forum for communication. Conventions were simply forums where Romans met for specific unofficial purposes, such as, for example, to hear a political speech. Private citizens who did not hold political office could only speak before a Convention, and not before an Assembly or a Council. Conventions were simply meetings, and no legal or legislative decisions could be made in them. Voters always assembled first into Conventions to hear debates and conduct other business before voting, and then into Assemblies or Councils to vote.\nA notice always had to be given several days before the Assembly was to vote. For elections, at least three market-days (often more than seventeen actual days) had to pass between the announcement of the election, and the actual election. During this time period (the \"trinundinum\"), the candidates interacted with the electorate, and no legislation could be proposed or voted upon. In 98 BC, a statute was passed (the \"lex Caecilia Didia\") which required a similar three market-day interval to pass between the proposal of a statute and the vote on that statute. During criminal trials, the assembly's presiding magistrate had to give a notice (\"diem dicere\") to the accused person on the first day of the investigation (\"anquisito\"). At the end of each day, the magistrate had to give another notice to the accused person (\"diem prodicere\"), which informed him of the status of the investigation. After the investigation was complete, a three market-day interval had to elapse before a final vote could be taken with respect to conviction or acquittal.\n\nOnly one assembly could operate at any given point in time, and any session already underway could be dissolved if a magistrate \"called away\" (\"avocare\") the electors. In addition to the presiding magistrate, several additional magistrates were often present to act as assistants. They were available to help resolve procedural disputes, and to provide a mechanism through which electors could appeal decisions of the presiding magistrate. There were also religious officials (known as Augurs) either in attendance or on-call, who would be available to help interpret any signs from the gods (omens), since the Romans believed that the gods let their approval or disapproval with proposed actions be known. In addition, a preliminary search for omens (\"auspices\") was conducted by the presiding magistrate the night before any meeting. On several known occasions, presiding magistrates used the claim of unfavorable omens as an excuse to suspend a session that was not going the way they wanted.\n\nOn the day of the vote, the electors first assembled into their Conventions for debate and campaigning. In the Conventions, the electors were not sorted into their Curiae. Speeches from private citizens were only heard if the issue to be voted upon was a legislative or judicial matter, and even then, only if the citizen received permission from the presiding magistrate. If the purpose of the ultimate vote was for an election, no speeches from private citizens were heard, and instead, the candidates for office used the Convention to campaign. During the Convention, the bill to be voted upon was read to the assembly by an officer known as a \"Herald\". Then the order of the vote had to be determined. An urn was brought in, and lots were cast to determine the sequence by which the Curiae were to vote.\n\nThe electors were then told to break up the Convention (\"depart to your separate groups\", or \"discedite, quirites\"). The electors assembled behind a fenced off area and voted by placing a pebble or written ballot into an appropriate jar. The baskets (\"cistae\") that held the votes were watched by specific officers (the \"custodes\"), who then counted the ballots, and reported the results to the presiding magistrate. The majority of votes in any Curia decided how that Curia voted. If the process was not complete by nightfall, the electors were dismissed without having reached a decision, and the process had to begin again the next day.\n\nShortly after the founding of the republic, many of the political powers of the Curiate Assembly were transferred to the Centuriate Assembly and the Tribal Assembly. This included the transfer of the election of tribunes to the Tribal Assembly by the Lex Publilia in 471 BC.\n\nWhile it then fell into disuse, it did retain some theoretical powers, most importantly, the power to ratify elections of the top-ranking Roman Magistrates (consuls and praetors) by passing a law (\"lex curiata de imperio\" or \"Curiate law on imperium\") that gave them their legal command (imperium) authority. In practice, however, they received this authority from the Centuriate assembly (which formally elected them), and as such, this functioned as nothing more than a reminder of Rome's regal heritage. Even after it lost its powers, the Curiate Assembly continued to be presided over by Consuls and Praetors, and was subject to obstruction by Roman magistrates (especially plebeian tribunes) and unfavorable omens (as were the other assemblies).\n\nBy the time of the middle and late Republic, there was considerable debate about the need for confirmation in imperium by the Curiate assembly. For example, \"praetors\" were not permitted to undertake judicial business without confirmation in the \"imperium\" and nor could \"consuls\" command troops or call the \"comitia centuriata\" to hold the election of his successor. Cicero's contemporaries argued that without confirmation in the imperium, a magistrate could not as a promagistrate, or without it, govern the province at his own expense and be ineligible for a triumph after a military victory. These rules would have prohibited magistrates from engaging in serious public business before confirmation, but for the fact they were widely ignored and legislation often included provisions stating that in the lack of a curiate law, they \"be magistrates in as legal a sense as those who are elected according to the strictest forms of law\". By 212 BC, the lack of such a law granting imperium to the propraetor of Spain, Lucius Marcius, was no issue for the senate, which refrained from declaring the election illegal. During the late Republic, by 54, the consul Appius Claudius insisted that he held imperium, due to statute passed by Sulla granting imperium to promagistrates until their return to the city without mention of the curiate grant of imperium, and also that he held the authority to call the Assembly to elect new magistrates. However, in the late Republic, with increasing conflict between the \"optimates\" and the \"populares\", it is likely that the senate, trying to increase its control over provincial governors, stressed the importance of this law, even as magistrates ignored their complaints.\n\nActs that the Curiate Assembly voted on were mostly symbolic and usually in the affirmative. At one point, possibly as early as 218 BC, the Curiate Assembly's thirty Curiae were abolished, and replaced with thirty lictors, one from each of the original Patrician clans.\n\nSince the Curiae had always been organized on the basis of the Roman family, it retained jurisdiction over clan matters even after the fall of the Roman Republic in 27 BC. Under the presidency of the Pontifex Maximus, it witnessed wills and ratified adoptions, inaugurated certain priests, and transfer citizens from Patrician class to Plebeian class (or vice versa). In 59 BC, it transferred Publius Clodius Pulcher from Patrician status to Plebeian status so that he could run for Plebeian Tribune. In 44 BC, it ratified the will of Julius Caesar, and with it Caesar's adoption of his nephew Gaius Octavian (the future Roman Emperor Augustus) as his son and heir.\n\nWith the rise of the empire, the sanctioning powers of the Curiate assembly fell into disuse, as the power to grant \"imperium\", along with the vast majority of the other powers of the Curiate assembly, were transferred into the hands of the Senate or delegated to the emperor through a special \"lex de imperio\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932571", "title": "Harvard College social clubs", "text": "Harvard College social clubs\n\nHarvard College has several types of social clubs. These are split between gender-inclusive clubs recognized by the College, and unrecognized single-gender clubs which are subject to College sanctions. The oldest, dating to 1791, are the traditionally all-male final clubs. Fraternities were prominent in the late 19th century as well, until their initial expulsions and then eventual resurrection off Harvard's campus in the 1990s. From 1991 onwards, all-female final clubs as well as sororities began to appear. Between 1984 and 2018, no social organizations were recognized by the school due to the clubs' refusal to become gender-inclusive. \n\nBeginning with the Spee Club in 2015, a number of formerly single-gender organizations began to admit new members regardless of gender. In 2016, Harvard announced sanctions on members of remaining single-gender clubs, aiming to push them to become coed. Eventually, on September 8, 2018, Harvard announced that it would recognize an initial list of fifteen social organizations that either already were gender-inclusive or had committed to becoming gender-inclusive. Eleven clubs remain single-gender, and remain unrecognized by the College. \n\nThe historical basis for the name \"final clubs\" dates to the late 19th century, a time when Harvard had a variety of clubs for students of each class year. During that period, Harvard College freshmen could join a freshman club, then a \"waiting club,\" and eventually, as they neared completion of their studies, a \"final club.\" Hence, students of different years joined different clubs, and the \"final clubs\" were so named because they were the last social club a person could join before graduation. Harvard's final clubs for women date to 1991 with the founding of the Bee Club.\n\nMany of the clubs were founded in the 19th century, after Harvard banned traditional fraternities in the 1850s. Of the final clubs still in existence (see below), only the Fox was initially founded as a final club. The Phoenix SK is the amalgam of three separate clubs: the Phoenix, the Sphinx, and the Kalumet.\n\n \nRecognized coed clubs:\nUnrecognized all-male clubs: \n\n\nUnrecognized all-female clubs:\n\nThe Harvard men's final clubs trace their roots to the late 18th century, while the five formerly all-female social clubs were founded more recently. Another women's organization, the Seneca, distinguishes itself as a \"501(c)(3) nonprofit women's organization that is often misidentified as a final club.\" Several other clubs are also 501(c)(3) organizations and engage in some community service. The Bee was founded in 1991, IC in 2000, Pleiades in 2002, Sab in 2002, and La Vie in 2008. (The co-ed Signet Society, \"The Harvard Crimson\", \"The Harvard Advocate\", \"Hasty Pudding Theatricals\", and \"The Harvard Lampoon\" also have selective membership, but their charters define them as something other than social organizations, based on their literary or artistic characteristics.)\n\nNine of the traditionally all-male clubs own real estate in Harvard Square, with the clubhouses usually including dining areas, libraries, and game rooms. Most are staffed with chefs, stewards, and other paid personnel, and serve lunch and dinner meals at regular schedules. The Delphic & Bee house boasts a regulation-size squash court.\n\nThe Fly Club owns additional property at 45 Dunster Street, in a building that is currently home to the Hasty Pudding Club and was previously home to the D.U. Club (the \"Duck\") and then the Bee Club (before the latter began the process of merging with the Delphic). The D.U. Club closed, in 1995, after an assault of a football recruit occurred at its clubhouse. The D.U. Club's graduate membership merged with the Fly in 1996. In a controversial move, the Fly did not allow former D.U. undergraduate members to integrate, and subsequently the undergraduate D.U. membership formed The Oak Club. La Vie Club rents a colonial style house on Garden Street. \n\nIn the fall of 2015, Harvard President Drew Faust criticized the clubs for—as stated by C. Ramsey Fahs of \"The Harvard Crimson\"—their \"gender exclusivity and the potential for alcohol abuse and sexual assault on the off-campus properties.\" The Spee Club began admitting women in later 2015, and the Fox Club followed suit but was then temporarily shut down as graduate board members sought to re-evaluate what it meant to be a \"member of the Fox\".\n\nAs part of an effort to marginalize organizations that \"contribute to a social life and a student culture that for many on our campus is disempowering and exclusionary\", a new policy provides that students entering in the fall of 2017 or later who join unrecognized single-sex organizations (such as single-sex final clubs, fraternities, and sororities) will be barred from campus leadership positions such as team captaincies, and from receiving recommendation letters from Harvard requisite for scholarships and fellowships.\nAt least one club has protested that the new rule infringes students' right of free association, and enforcement may be stymied by the difficulty of establishing who the members of each club are. In 2016, the President and Vice President of the Undergraduate Council, Shaiba Rather and Daniel Banks spoke before the elected Faculty Council and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University to support the effort to curb gender-discrimination amongst student organizations. Their statement was the first official opinion of any elected members of the student body on the matter. As administrative officials endeavored to implement and rewrite the sanctions, Rather and Banks were drafted as hardliners against any gender discrimination between Final Clubs and the Harvard student body. However, in November 2016, a slight majority of undergraduate student voters on a referendum question were in favor of repealing the sanctions (59.8%), while 30.3% were against repealing the sanctions and 9.8% abstained from voting. The vote had no immediate effect on the policy.\nIn December 2017, the University's highest governing body, the Harvard Corporation, voted to approve the sanctions and confirm their permanence. Currently, members of the class of 2021 and beyond who are members of unrecognized (single-gender) social organizations are barred from \"holding leadership positions in recognized student organizations, becoming varsity captains, or receiving College endorsement for prestigious fellowships,\" according to the Harvard Crimson. The University has faced questions about how it will enforce its sanctions policy, and the enforcement mechanism remains somewhat unclear. As the class of 2021 had its first opportunity to join single-gender organizations in fall of 2018 (and as members of that class will begin to seek on-campus leadership positions as juniors in 2019), it is expected that Harvard will face its first real test in enforcing the sanctions in 2019. \n\nIn response to the policy, the all-female Sablière and Seneca societies instituted gender-neutral recruitment policies in 2016. The all-male Oak Club followed suit in January 2017 after reaching a \"club-wide consensus\". Former sorority Kappa Kappa Gamma announced it would form a new gender-inclusive group called the Fleur-de-Lis (FDL) beginning in February 2018. \nIn September 2018, Harvard released a public list of organizations it would recognize, certifying their gender-inclusive status or their commitment to achieving gender-inclusive status. In addition to the Sab, Oak, Seneca, and FDL, this initial list included the Spee Club, the Fox Club, the Delphic Club and Bee Club Merged Group, the Aleph (formerly Alpha Epsilon Pi), the La Vie Club, The IC Club, the K.S. (formerly Kappa Sigma, the Ivy (formerly Alpha Phi, the Pleaides Society, the Kali Praxi (formerly Delta Gamma), and the TA (formerly Kappa Alpha Theta).\n\nIn July 2017, a Harvard committee pointed to Bowdoin College as a model for eradicating final clubs, sororities, and fraternities from campus social life. This preliminary recommendation would have taken effect with the incoming class of 2021, so all currently enrolled students would be exempt. The transition period would have extended into May 2022 before all such organizations and social clubs would be abolished. <br>\nAfter the committee released its 22-page report, \"The Harvard Crimson\" reported that the committee, co-chaired by Danoff Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, had not been transparent in its deliberations or conclusions. Members of the committee, speaking anonymously, described \"a process ... marked by confusion, disagreement, and opacity, resulting in a report that did not necessarily capture the full committee's views.\" (Hannah Natanson & Derek G. Xiao.\"Seven Votes: How a Harvard Committee Came to Recommend a Social Group Ban\". \"The Harvard Crimson\". July 22, 2017.) Moreover, according to \"The Crimson\", the report misrepresented the conclusions of the committee:\n\nHarvard severed ties with final clubs in 1984 because of their refusal to admit women.\n\nDuring the 2006 Senate hearings on the nomination of Samuel Alito to the United States Supreme Court, Senator Ted Kennedy was among those highlighting Alito's membership in Concerned Alumni of Princeton, which had opposed admission of women into Princeton; when Kennedy's membership in the Owl Club was pointed out, Kennedy resigned from the club.\n\nThat same year, Massachusetts gubernatorial candidate Deval Patrick's membership in the Fly Club was criticized as contradictory to his image as a champion of civil rights; Patrick responded that he had left the club in the early 1980s for that reason.\n\nIn December 2018 separate suits were filed in federal and Massachusetts courts by national fraternities and sororities which alleged that Harvard's policies against single-sex clubs were discriminatory. The lawsuits are expected to play out over the course of several years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932580", "title": "Liv Lindeland", "text": "Liv Lindeland\n\nLiv Lindeland (born 7 December 1945 in Norway) is a Norwegian model, actress, and talent agent. She was chosen as \"Playboy\" magazine's Playmate of the Month for January 1971 and as the Playmate of the Year for 1972. Her original pictorial was photographed by Alexas Urba. Lindeland is the daughter-in-law of actress-dancer Cyd Charisse.\n\nWhen the blonde Lindeland was selected to pose for \"Playboy\" she became the first Playmate of the Month to show clearly visible pubic hair. \n\nLindeland went into acting following her \"Playboy\" appearance (often credited as Liv Von Linden), and then segued into a career as a talent agent. She again posed nude for \"Playboy\" in the December 1979 pictorial, \"Playmates Forever!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932581", "title": "Russian tortoise", "text": "Russian tortoise\n\nThe Russian tortoise (\"Agrionemys horsfieldii\"), also commonly known as the Afghan tortoise, the Central Asian tortoise, Horsfield's tortoise, four-clawed tortoise, and the (Russian) steppe tortoise, is a threatened species of tortoise in the family Testudinidae. The species is endemic to Central Asia. Human activities in its native habitat contribute to its threatened status.\n\nBoth the specific name, \"horsfieldii\", and the common name \"Horsfield's tortoise\" are in honor of the American naturalist Thomas Horsfield.\n\nThis species is traditionally placed in \"Testudo\". Due to distinctly different morphological characteristics, the monotypic genus \"Agrionemys\" was proposed for it in 1966. Today, \"Agrionemys horsfieldii\" is currently being accepted. DNA sequence analysis generally concurs, but not too robustly so. Some sources also list three separate subspecies of Russian tortoise, but they are not widely accepted by taxonomists:\n\n\nThe Russian tortoise is a small tortoise species, with a size range of . Females grow slightly larger () to accommodate more eggs. Males average .\nRussian tortoises are sexually dimorphic. Males tend to have longer tails generally tucked to the side, and longer claws; females have a short, fat tail, with shorter claws than the males. The male has a slit-shaped vent (cloaca) near the tip of its tail; the female has an asterisk-shaped vent (cloaca).\nRussian tortoises have four toes. Coloration varies, but the shell is usually a ruddy brown or black, fading to yellow between the scutes, and the body is straw-yellow and brown depending on the subspecies.\n\nThe male Russian tortoise courts a female through head bobbing, circling, and biting her forelegs. When she submits, he mounts her from behind, making high-pitched squeaking noises during mating.\n\nThe species can spend as much as 9 months of the year in dormancy. Russian tortoises can live up to 100 years.\n\nIn captivity, diet typically consists of lamb's lettuce, plantains and other dark leafy greens. The diet should be varied and may include juvenile dandelions and different species of lettuce, though like very many plants, they should be fed rarely due to potentially harmful side effects (for the former) or a lack of nutritional value (for the latter). \nWater is important for all species, but the tortoise, being an arid species, will typically get water from their food, but they still need a constant supply. Tortoises should be soaked in warm water up to the mid shell. Tortoises typically empty their bowels in water as to hide their scent, this is an instinct, and it also helps keep their enclosure cleaner.\n\nRussian tortoises do not require a CITES Article X certificate.\n\nIn September 1968 two Russian tortoises flew to the Moon, circled it, and returned safely to Earth on the Russian Zond 5 mission. Accompanied by mealworms, plants, and other lifeforms, they were the first Earth creatures to travel to the Moon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932594", "title": "Emperor Suzong of Tang", "text": "Emperor Suzong of Tang\n\nEmperor Suzong of Tang (19 October 711 – 16 May 762; r. 756 – 762), personal name Li Heng, né Li Sisheng (), known as Li Jun () from 725 to 736, known as Li Yu () from 736 to 738, known briefly as Li Shao () in 738, was an emperor of the Tang dynasty and the son of Emperor Xuanzong. Suzong ascended the throne after his father fled to Sichuan during the An Lushan Rebellion in 756; Li Heng himself had fled in the opposite direction, to Lingwu, where he was declared emperor by the army. Much of Emperor Suzong's reign was spent in quelling the aforementioned rebellion, which was ultimately put down in 763 during the reign of his son Emperor Daizong.\n\nDuring Emperor Suzong's reign, the tradition of eunuchs becoming top-ranked officials began, with Li Fuguo becoming the commander of the imperial guards and possessing nearly absolute power near Emperor Suzong's reign. In 762, with Emperor Suzong gravely ill, Li Fuguo killed Emperor Suzong's wife Empress Zhang in a power struggle and shortly after that, Emperor Suzong died of myocardial infarction. He was succeeded by his son Emperor Daizong, who was eventually able to kill Li Fuguo, but the tradition of eunuchs in power had started. Suzong's death on 16 May came only 13 days after the death of his father, the Emperor Xuanzong.\n\nLi Sisheng was born in 711, during the second reign of his grandfather Emperor Ruizong, as the third son of his father, then the Crown Prince, Li Longji, who would later become Emperor Xuanzong. His mother Consort Yang Guipin (posthumously Empress Yuanxian) was from the imperial clan of the preceding Sui dynasty. Her great-grandfather Yang Shida () was a high -level official during Sui and had been given the title Prince of Zheng (). Her father Yang Zhiqing () was a general of the imperial guards during Tang. At the time that Consort Yang Guipin was pregnant with Li Sisheng, Li Longji was locked in a power struggle with his aunt, Emperor Ruizong's sister Princess Taiping, and it was said that Princess Taiping had placed many associates in the crown prince's palace to spy on Li Longji and that she did not want him to have many sons. (He already had two by that point—Li Sisheng's older brothers Li Sizhi, later named Li Cong (by Consort Liu) and Li Siqian, later named Li Ying (by Consort Zhao).) Li Longji was worried that, if Princess Taiping found out that Yang Guipin was pregnant, Princess Taiping's associates might harm him, and he spoke to a close associate, Zhang Shuo, stating: \"A powerful individual did not want me to have many sons. I am afraid that this woman would become a target. What do you think?\" Li Longji began to prepare an herbal stew that, in traditional Chinese medicine, was believed to be able to induce an abortion, but as he did so, fell asleep and had a dream that a god descended and overturned the \"ding\" holding the stew. When he told Zhang this as well, Zhang responded, \"This is heaven's will. You should not worry.\" (As a result, later on in life, Li Sisheng would feel personally indebted to Zhang Shuo.)\n\nIn 712, Emperor Ruizong passed the throne to Li Longji, who took the throne as Emperor Xuanzong, but Emperor Ruizong retained actual power as \"Taishang Huang\" (retired emperor). Shortly after Emperor Xuanzong took the throne, Emperor Ruizong, as retired emperor, was the one who created Li Sisheng the Prince of Shan. (After Emperor Xuanzong suppressed Princess Taiping's associates in 713 and forced her to commit suicide, Emperor Ruizong transferred imperial authorities to Emperor Xuanzong and was no longer involved in politics.) Li Siqian, whose mother Consort Zhao was then Emperor Xuanzong's favorite concubine, was created crown prince. Li Sisheng, although his mother alive, was raised by Emperor Xuanzong's wife Empress Wang, who was herself sonless. It was said that in his childhood, he was kind and studious, and Emperor Xuanzong was pleased with him. Emperor Xuanzong thus made the officials He Zhizhang (), Pan Su (), Lü Xiang (), Huangfu Bin (), and Xing Su () accompany him in his studies.\n\nIn 724, due to the machinations of Consort Wu, who had by then become Emperor Xuanzong's favorite concubine, Empress Wang was deposed, and she died shortly after. Thereafter, Consort Wu began a campaign, in association with the chancellor Li Linfu, to have her own son Li Qing the Prince of Shou made crown prince, but was not able to initially succeed. Meanwhile, in 726, Li Sisheng's title was changed to the Prince of Zhong, and his name was changed to Li Jun. In 728, his own mother Consort Yang Guipin died.\n\nIn 729, when there was a Khitan and Kumo Xi incursion, Li Jun was put in titular command of the army sent to repel the Khitan and the Xi, with Emperor Xuanzong's second cousin Li Hui () the Prince of Xin'an in actual command of the army. After Li Hui defeated the Khitan and the Xi, Li Jun was nevertheless rewarded with the honorific title of \"Situ\" (), one of the Three Ducal Ministers. In 735, his name was changed to Li Yu.\n\nIn 737, due to the machinations of Consort Wu, Li Ying, along with his brothers Li Yao () the Prince of E and Li Ju () the Prince of Guang, was accused of crimes, deposed, and forced to commit suicide. Consort Wu and Li Linfu continued to lobby for Li Qing (whose name had been changed to Li Mao at this point) to be created crown prince, but with Consort Wu having died herself later in 737 and Emperor Xuanzong believing that Li Yu was capable, he hesitated. At the urging of the eunuch Gao Lishi, who believed that one of his older sons should be made crown prince, Emperor Xuanzong created Li Yu crown prince in 738 and renamed him Li Shao. (As it was quickly pointed out that he thus shared a name with the Liu Song crown prince Liu Shao, who killed his father and usurped the throne, his name was then quickly changed to Li Heng and would not change again thereafter.) One of his consorts, Consort Wei, the sister of the official Wei Jian (), was created crown princess.\n\nAs Li Heng's ascension to be crown prince was against Li Linfu's wishes, and also because Wei Jian, who drew favor from Emperor Xuanzong due to his abilities to increase revenues for the imperial treasury, was becoming a rival to Li Linfu at court, Li Linfu looked for ways to incriminate both Wei and Li Heng. In 746, when the official Yang Shenjin (), at Li Linfu's instigation, reported to Emperor Xuanzong that, one night, Li Heng met Wei while both were sightseeing, and shortly after, Wei met a friend of his, the general Huangfu Weiming () at a Taoist temple, Li Linfu used these incidents to accuse Wei and Huangfu of secretly pledging allegiance to Li Heng and planning to remove Emperor Xuanzong to replace him with Li Heng. Wei and Huangfu were arrested and interrogated by Yang, Wang Hong (), and Ji Wen (), but Emperor Xuanzong, who did not want the case to further explode into a major incident although he believed Li Linfu's accusations, demoted Wei and Huangfu out of the capital and, for the time being, stopped the investigation. However, when Wei Jian's brothers Wei Lan () and Wei Zhi () submitted a defense of their brother Wei Jian later in 746—and the defense cited words from Li Heng—Emperor Xuanzong was incensed. Li Heng, in fear, divorced Crown Princess Wei and asked for the Wei brothers to be punished. The Wei brothers, along with a number of their associates—including the former chancellor Li Shizhi, Wei Bin (), Wei Jian's nephew Li Quan () the Prince of Xue, Pei Kuan (), and Li Qiwu (), were all demoted. (In 747, at Li Linfu's instigation, the Wei brothers, Huangfu, and Li Shizhi were all forced to commit suicide.)\n\nLater in 746, yet another incident again nearly brought disaster to Li Heng. One of Li Heng's other consorts, Consort Du, was a daughter of the official Du Youlin (). Consort Du's brother-in-law Liu Ji () had a dispute with the Du family and falsely accused them of using witchcraft in favor of Li Heng. Li Linfu had Ji Wen interrogate Liu, and Ji implicated Liu in the alleged plot as well. Du Youlin, Liu, and Liu's friend Wang Zeng () were all caned to death, and Li Heng felt compelled to expel Consort Du from the household as well. Li Linfu also used this case to have two other officials friendly with Liu, Li Yong () and Pei Dunfu (), executed by caning.\n\nIn 747, when one of Emperor Xuanzong's favorite generals, An Lushan, visited the capital Chang'an to pay respect to Emperor Xuanzong, An, who was not Han, initially refused to bow to Li Heng—pretending that he was only loyal to Emperor Xuanzong and to no one else, including the crown prince, and that he did not even know what a crown prince was. Only after Emperor Xuanzong explained what a crown prince is—the reserve emperor, to succeed him later—was An willing to bow to Li Heng. This caused Emperor Xuanzong to favor An even more, but also later caused An to be apprehensive of whether Li Heng would bear continued resentment toward him over the incident.\n\nLater in 747, Li Linfu tried to use yet another case to undermine Li Heng. The general Wang Zhongsi, who was raised with Li Heng inside the palace on account of the fact that his father Wang Haibin () had died in battle in service to the empire, was accused of interfering with the campaign of another general, Dong Yan'guang (), against Tibetan Empire. Li Linfu broadened the accusation to an accusation that Wang was planning to start a coup to overthrow Emperor Xuanzong and replace him with Li Heng. At the intercession of another general, Geshu Han, however, Wang was spared from death, and Li Heng was not implicated. It was said that during this time period, Li Linfu made other attempts to undermine Li Heng, but with Gao Lishi and Zhang Shuo's son Zhang Ji (), who had married Li Heng's sister Princess Ningqing, protecting Li Heng, Li Heng escaped unharmed each time.\n\nAs of 754, the chancellor in power was Yang Guozhong (Li Linfu having died in 752), the cousin of Emperor Xuanzong's then-favorite concubine Yang Guifei (unrelated to Li Heng's mother). Yang Guozhong and An were locked in a power struggle, and Yang repeatedly accused An of plotting a rebellion, but Emperor Xuanzong would not believe it, although Li Heng eventually came to agree with Yang Guozhong. In late 755, with Yang Guozhong repeatedly trying to provoke An into a rebellion, An finally did, from his base at Fanyang (范陽, in modern Beijing). After the rebellion started, Emperor Xuanzong briefly considered making Li Heng regent, but at the pleas of Consort Yang and her three sisters (who were fearful that Li Heng would act against them if he had regent powers), did not actually do so.\n\nBy summer 756, An had declared a new state of Yan as its emperor, and his forces were approaching Chang'an. on July 14, 756, Emperor Xuanzong, with Yang Guozhong suggesting that they flee to Jiannan Circuit (劍南, headquartered in modern Chengdu), abandoned Chang'an and fled with Gao Lishi, Yang Guozhong, Wei, Li Heng, Consort Yang, and her family. The following day, July 15, the imperial guards accompanying the emperor, angry at Yang Guozhong, rose at Mawei Station (馬嵬, in modern Baoji, Shaanxi) and killed him and forced Emperor Xuanzong to kill Consort Yang as well. Emperor Xuanzong then poised to continue to head toward Jiannan. The people in the Mawei region tried to persuade Emperor Xuanzong not to continue on—believing that Chang'an could be recaptured. Emperor Xuanzong asked Li Heng to try to comfort the people. Once Li Heng left Emperor Xuanzong's presence, however, Li Fuguo and Li Heng's sons Li Tan the Prince of Jianning and Li Chu the Prince of Guangping, persuaded Li Heng not to follow Emperor Xuanzong to Jiannan—arguing that with the physical barriers between Chang'an and Jiannan, that once they had left the region, Chang'an could no longer be captured. Li Heng agreed and had Li Chu report this to Emperor Xuanzong. Emperor Xuanzong agreed with Li Heng's decision, but he himself continued on to Jiannan. Li Heng, escorted by a small number of guard soldiers commanded by Li Tan, then headed to the border city of Lingwu. With the army at Lingwu pressuring him to take imperial title, Li Heng declared himself emperor on August 13 (as Emperor Suzong). When news of this reached Emperor Xuanzong in Jiannan, Emperor Xuanzong recognized Emperor Suzong as emperor and took the title of \"Taishang Huang\" (retired emperor), although he continued to exercise some imperial authority—including, for example, issuing an edict that posthumously honored Emperor Suzong's mother Consort Yang as Empress Yuanxian. (Some historians, including the modern historian Bo Yang, believed that Emperor Xuanzong's continued issuance of edicts, while not on the surface conflicting with Emperor Suzong's authority, caused Emperor Suzong pressure to try to recapture Chang'an as quickly as possible to avoid any contention for the throne—either in the form of Emperor Xuanzong himself resuming imperial authority or in the form of another imperial prince rising to defeat Yan.)\n\nEmperor Suzong, once he became emperor, set his eyes on recapturing Chang'an from Yan forces, as Yan forces faced heavy resistance from the people of the Guanzhong region (i.e., the region around Chang'an) and was not able to keep the region under firm control. (By this point, An Lushan had been assassinated and succeeded by his son An Qingxu, as the emperor of Yan.) However, an immediate attempt to do so, commanded by the chancellor Fang Guan, was defeated by the Yan forces near Chang'an with heavy losses. Meanwhile, around the same time, Emperor Suzong's brother Li Lin the Prince of Yong tried to mount a challenge against him, seeking to effectively secede with the region south of the Yangtze River, but was quickly defeated and killed by forces loyal to Emperor Suzong. Emperor Suzong's court was also itself filled with internal struggles, with Li Fuguo aligned with Emperor Suzong's favorite concubine Consort Zhang, in opposition to Li Chu, Li Tan, and Emperor Suzong's trusted advisor Li Mi. In early 757, after Li Tan repeatedly accused Li Fuguo and Consort Zhang of corruption, Li Fuguo and Empress Zhang in turn falsely accused him of trying to assassinate Li Chu, who was older than he was, in order to become the heir. Emperor Suzong, in anger, ordered Li Tan to commit suicide, which drew fear from Li Chu and Li Mi. Li Chu considered assassinating Li Fuguo and Consort Zhang, but at Li Mi's urging, stopped his plans to do so.\n\nEmperor Suzong, finding it difficult to recapture Chang'an just with his own troops, then entered into an alliance with Huige's Bayanchur Khan Yaoluoge Moyanchuo, where Huige forces arrived at Emperor Suzong's then-headquarters at Fengxiang (鳳翔, in modern Baoji) to join the elite Tang forces recalled from the Anxi Circuit and the Western Regions (\"Xiyu\"). (Emperor Suzong did so by promising that the Huige forces would be permitted to pillage the Chnag'an region once it was recaptured.) Li Mi suggested that these forces be used to attack Yan's power base at Fanyang first, to root out the possibility of a Yan recovery. Emperor Suzong chose not to do so and decided to attack Chang'an first, with Li Chu in command of the joint forces. The forces recaptured Chang'an in fall 757, allowing Emperor Suzong to rebuild his administration in the capital. (Huige forces were set to pillage Chang'an, but Li Chu bowed to the Huige prince commanding Huige forces to plead to delay the pillage—pointing out that if pillaging were carried out, the people of the eastern capital Luoyang, then serving as Yan's capital, would resist heavily, and asking that Huige pillage \"Luoyang\" instead. The Huige prince agreed.) After Emperor Suzong recaptured Chang'an, Li Mi resigned and became a hermit, leaving Li Fuguo, Consort Zhang (who was then created empress), and Li Chu the lead figures at court, and Li Fuguo, in command of the imperial guards, would soon have such paramount powers that even Emperor Suzong was afraid of offending him. Empress Zhang, meanwhile, wanted to make her son Li Shao () crown prince, but Emperor Suzong, believing Li Chu, who was his oldest son, to be capable and accomplished, created him crown prince instead and changed his name to Li Yu. Emperor Suzong also welcomed Emperor Xuanzong back from Jiannan and housed him at a palace converted from Emperor Xuanzong's old residence as an imperial prince, Xingqing Palace ().\n\nA month after Chang'an was recaptured, Tang and Huige forces recaptured Luoyang as well, and Luoyang suffered heavy pillaging by Huige forces. An Qingxu fled to Yecheng and took up position there, but most Yan territory resubmitted to Tang, and war appeared to be poised to end. To cement the alliance with Huige, Emperor Suzong also gave his daughter Princess Ningguo in marriage to Yaoluoge Moyanchuo.\n\nIn 758, however, one of the major Yan generals who had submitted to Tang, Shi Siming, claiming that there had been a plot by Emperor Suzong and the Tang general Li Guangbi, to have his subordinate Wu Cheng'en () assassinate him, re-rebelled and advanced south. In spring 759, he engaged the Tang forces then sieging An Qingxu at Yecheng, and while the initial battle was indecisive, the Tang forces panicked during the battle and collapsed, allowing the siege of Yecheng to be lifted. Shi Siming then led An Qingxu into a trap and killed him, taking over as the emperor of Yan and further advancing south to recapture Luoyang, again making it Yan's capital. However, his further attempts to advance against Chang'an was blocked by Li Guangbi, and the Yan and Tang forces went into a stalemate. While the stalemate was continuing, in 760, after the eunuch Xing Yan'en () reported to Emperor Suzong that the general Liu Zhan () was disobeying orders, and that Liu's name was in mystical prophecies, Emperor Suzong accepted Xing's suggestion to find a way to eliminate Liu. After Liu found this out, he was forced into rebellion in late 760; he had successes against other Tang generals and controlled the lower Yangtze region for several months until he was defeated by another Tang general, Tian Shen'gong ().\n\nMeanwhile, Emperor Xuanzong settled into a routine at Xingqing Palace, with Chen Xuanli () and Gao Lishi attending to him. Also often attending to him were his sister Li Chiying () the Princess Yuzhen, the lady-in-waiting Ru Xianyuan (), and the eunuchs Wang Cheng'en () and Wei Yue (). The imperial musicians often played for him, and he often climbed up Changqing Tower () to receive well wishes from the populace. He also often held feasts for generals and people from Jiannan, with Li Chiying and Ru serving as hostesses. Emperor Xuanzong's attendants looked down at Li Fuguo. To retaliate, Li Fuguo began to try to convince Emperor Suzong that Emperor Xuanzong and his attendants were plotting to seize power back. In 760, with Emperor Suzong's tacit, although not explicit, approval, on one occasion when Emperor Xuanzong was out riding, Li Fuguo intercepted him and forced him to move back to the main palace. Even on that occasion, however, Gao would not submit to Li Fuguo and even yelled at Li Fuguo to force him to get off his horse and to escort Emperor Xuanzong on foot, along with Gao. Soon after Emperor Xuanzong was forcibly moved, Li Fuguo forced Chen to retire, Li Chiying to return to her temple (she had become an ordained Daoist nun in 711), and exiled Gao, Wang, Wei, and Ru. Emperor Suzong then had his daughters Princesses Wan'an and Xianyi attend to Emperor Xuanzong, but Emperor Xuanzong, having lost his trusted attendants, became silent and ill. For the time being, Emperor Suzong frequently visited Emperor Xuanzong, but he himself grew ill as well and rarely visited. He also regretted permitting Li Fuguo to take these actions and considered killing him, but hesitated and ultimately did not do so because Li Fuguo commanded the imperial guards. Indeed, thereafter, Li Fuguo became minister of defense, and Emperor Suzong was often forced to comply with his wishes as far as governance was concerned, although Emperor Suzong rebuffed his wishes to become chancellor.\n\nIn 761, Shi Siming was assassinated and succeeded by his son Shi Chaoyi, and it was said that other Yan generals, who were originally Shi Siming's equals, began to disobey Shi Chaoyi's orders. Tang forces thus were able to beat back the Yan forces but were not able to dislodge Shi Huaiyi from Luoyang, and final victory over Yan would not come in Emperor Suzong's lifetime.\n\nIn summer 762, Emperor Xuanzong died. Emperor Suzong was bedridden by this point, and it was said that he was so saddened by Emperor Xuanzong's death that his illness further advanced. He thus granted regent powers on Li Yu. By this point, Empress Zhang and Li Fuguo were no longer allies, and Empress Zhang summoned Li Yu, wanting an alliance with him to kill Li Fuguo and his subordinate Cheng Yuanzhen. Li Yu refused, pointing out that this would cause alarm to the very-ill Emperor Suzong. Empress Zhang then entered into an alliance with Li Yu's younger brother Li Xi () the Prince of Yue, and they tried to set a trap for Li Fuguo, with 200 strong eunuchs loyal to her and Li Xi ready to act against Li Fuguo. On May 14, 762, she issued an order in Emperor Suzong's name, summoning Li Yu into the palace. However, Cheng received this news and reported this to Li Fuguo and Li Yu, and Cheng then escorted Li Yu to the imperial guard headquarters. Imperial guards commanded by Li Fuguo and Cheng then entered the palace and arrested Empress Zhang, Li Xi, and their associates. It was said that with Emperor Suzong resting at Changsheng Hall (), the soldiers dragged Empress Zhang and the attending ladies in waiting and eunuchs away from his presence. Emperor Suzong was said to be left alone without attendants. He died on May 16, only 13 days after Emperor Xuanzong's death. Li Fuguo executed Empress Zhang, Li Xi, and Li Xian () the Prince of Yan and then declared Li Yu emperor (as Emperor Daizong).\n\nFaced with the devastating An Lushan Rebellion, Emperor Suzong of Tang wrote a desperate letter to Al-Mansur requesting for armed assistance. Al-Mansur responded by sending 4000 men to China in order to aid Emperor Suzong of Tang. In return they were allowed to settle down permanently in China after the rebellion was repressed. Some of them married local Chinese people. This helped in founding of the earliest Muslim communities of China.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932597", "title": "Cricket in film and television", "text": "Cricket in film and television\n\nCricket, though one of the most popular sports in the world, has not seen the popularity that other sports have seen in the film and television industry. There are very few cricket themed movies and mini-series.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932624", "title": "Cool Spot", "text": "Cool Spot\n\nCool Spot is a 1993 platformer video game developed and published by Virgin Games for the Mega Drive/Genesis and Super Nintendo Entertainment System. The game was later ported by other teams to Master System, Game Gear, Game Boy, Amiga and DOS in 1994. The title character is Cool Spot, a mascot for the soft drink brand 7 Up. Cool Spot's appearance in his own video game came at a time when other notable brand mascots (like Chester the Cheetah and the Noid) were appearing in their own video games.\n\nThe title is a single-player platformer in which the player controls Cool Spot. Cool Spot can jump and can attack by throwing soda bubbles in any direction. Cool Spot can also cling to and climb various things by jumping up in front of them. In each level the player must rescue other cool spots, who look exactly alike, from their cages. In order to do so, the player is required to collect a certain number of \"spots\" that changes (usually increasing) as the game progresses. \"Spots\" are placed around the level in large quantities. The player's health is monitored by a humorous Cool Spot face that gradually bends forward and eventually falls from its position as damage occurs. Damage is taken by touching enemies and their projectiles and certain other obstacles. There is also a time limit for each level. The game has no save feature but does include checkpoints in the form of flagpoles.\n\nIf the player successfully collects enough Spots to enter the Bonus Stage after defeating a level, it is possible to collect Continues by grabbing a letter hidden within the stage. Depending on the version of the game, all letters either spell \"UNCOLA\" (7 Up's slogan), or \"VIRGIN\" (the game's developer). If a Continue letter is collected, Spot will be able to restart on the level he was on at the time of losing his last life, although his total points will be reset.\n\nIn the European release, the 7 Up bottle was removed from the intro and replaced by a generic soda bottle of similar color. The decision was made to avoid associating the 7 Up Spot with the 7 Up brand, in a region where Fido Dido has been considered the brand's official mascot since the 1980s.\n\nCool Spot was ranked 88th on Complex's 'Best Super Nintendo Games of all Time list' which praised the game for being a 'pretty enjoyable platformer' despite blatant product placement.\n\nPelit gave it a score of 82%, and summarized it as \"one of the most enjoyable platform games in a long time\".\n\nWhile \"Cool Spot\" was a side-scrolling platform game, its sequel, \"Spot Goes To Hollywood\", was more 3D in orientation and featured gameplay inside various movies. Despite excellent visuals, its isometric perspective and unusual controls made it an exceedingly difficult game. This game, published once again by Virgin Interactive, was developed by Eurocom. It was released for Mega Drive/Genesis in 1995, Sega Saturn in 1996, and Sony PlayStation in 1997, with the 32-bit versions featuring revamped graphics and different levels than those of the Mega Drive/Genesis version, and being developed by Burst Studios instead of Eurocom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932630", "title": "Bole So Nihal", "text": "Bole So Nihal\n\nBole So Nihal (, meaning \"Whoever utters, shall be fulfilled.\") is a \"Jaikara or Clarion call\" of Sikhs given by the Tenth guru, Guru Gobind Singh.\n\n\"Bole So Nihal...Sat Sri Akal\" (\"Shout Aloud in Ecstasy... True is the Great Timeless One\") is the Sikh slogan or \"jaikara\" (lit. shout of victory, triumph or exultation) which means \"one will be blessed eternally who says that God is the ultimate truth\". Besides being a popular mode of expressing ebullient religious fervour or a mood of joy and celebration, it is an integral part of Sikh liturgy and is shouted at the end of \"ardas,\" Sikh prayer and said in \"sangat\" or holy congregation. The \"jaikara\" expresses the Sikh belief that all victory (\"jaya\" or \"jai\") belongs to God, \"Waheguru\", a belief that is also expressed in the Sikh salutation \"\"Waheguru ji ka Khalsa, Waheguru ji ki Fateh\"\" (\"Khalsa is of God and to God belongs the victory\", or \"Hail the Guru’s Khalsa! Hail the Guru’s victory!\")\n\n\"Sat Sri Akal\" has been so used through the 300-year history of the Sikh people, since the creation of the Khalsa. In a normal situation, when two Sikhs meet they exchange greetings by saying \"\"Sat Sri Akal\"\". Although it is now the customary Sikh greeting, it does not have the sanction of history or orthodoxy. \"\"Wahiguru ji ka Khalsa Wahiguru ji ki Fateh\"\", the other salutation, is generally used only by people punctilious in the observance of proper form. Those addressing a Sikh religious congregation will, as a rule, greet the audience with the salutation, \"\"Wahiguru ji ka Khalsa Wahiguru ji ki Fateh\"\". \"\"Sat Sri Akaal\"\" shouted in unison responding to the call \"\"bole so nihal\"\" is a call to action, or expression of ecstatic joy or an invocation for Divine aid or succour. While \"sat\" or \"sati\" (Sanskrit \"satya\") means ‘true’, ‘good’, ‘abiding’, ‘real’ and ‘eternal’, \"sri\" is an honorific denoting beauty, glory, grace or majesty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932641", "title": "Santa Marta, Extremadura", "text": "Santa Marta, Extremadura\n\nSanta Marta is a municipality (population 4,157) in the Spanish province of Badajoz, in the autonomous community of Extremadura.\n"}
{"id": "1932645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932645", "title": "Steven Page", "text": "Steven Page\n\nSteven Jay Page (born June 22, 1970) is a Canadian musician, singer and songwriter. Along with Ed Robertson, he was a founding member, lead singer, guitarist, and a primary songwriter of the music group Barenaked Ladies (BNL). Page left the band in 2009 and has since pursued a solo career.\n\nPage was born in Scarborough, Ontario. After skipping grade one, Page was enrolled in Scarborough's gifted program at Churchill Heights Public School. Page's father, Victor, was a drummer, as is his brother, Matthew. As a child, Page would attempt to play songs on the piano, while his dad would keep the beat on the drums. Page took ten years of piano lessons (though claimed he did not learn to play). He also was a member of the Toronto Mendelssohn Youth Choir.\n\nDuring childhood, Page had his best friend \"stolen\" by a schoolmate, Ed Robertson, and resented Robertson for some time. The two went to high school at Woburn Collegiate Institute but steered clear of each other until Page spotted Robertson at a Harvey's restaurant after a Peter Gabriel concert and was surprised to find that Robertson was also a fan. This led to Page and Robertson talking, becoming friends, and ultimately, forming BNL. They were both counselors at the Scarborough Schools Music Camp in the summer of 1988, where some of their early collaborations in music were born. Page wrote songs with his friend Geoff Pounsett and made tapes of those songs; Robertson had obtained a tape the two had made, and knew some of Page's songs. Page was flattered by this and the two eventually became good friends.\n\nRobertson invited Page to perform with him at a charity show under the name Barenaked Ladies in 1988, and ultimately the show led the pair to full-time careers in the band. Page attended York University in the English program with a minor in theory and choral studies, but dropped out to focus on the band's rising success.\n\nPage was a main songwriter from the band's inception. A majority of the band's material came either from Page alone, or co-writing with Robertson. All but one of the songs on the band's first album had a songwriting or co-writing credit for Page. He is credited on every song from both \"Maroon\" (2000) (other than the album's hidden track) and \"Everything to Everyone\" (2003). In all, 97 of the 113 songs on the band's primary studio albums during his tenure (not including its holiday or children's albums) are credited or co-credited to Page. Though his level of credit remained steadily high, the contribution of initial song ideas became more evenly distributed to Robertson, and later other bandmates Kevin Hearn and Jim Creeggan; though Page continued to contribute his skill in completing or just polishing lyrics.\n\nPage had also been the band's main lead singer since the beginning, though he always shared some of the lead vocal duty with Robertson. This stemmed, in part, from the band's common practice of writing for one's own voice; as Robertson came up with more song ideas, he would sing lead on more songs. All of the singles from the band's first three albums featured a Page lead vocal (not including \"If I Had $1000000\" which featured a call and response lead vocal from both Robertson and Page), and nine of the 11 songs on the band's first live album, \"Rock Spectacle\", featured a Page lead. Following the success of \"One Week\", the band's first single with a Robertson lead, songs with a Robertson lead became selected equally as singles from that point on.\n\nPage played acoustic and electric guitar (and occasionally other instruments) for the band both in the studio and live. Most of the time, he played rhythm parts on songs he wrote, allowing Robertson to play more of a lead guitar role; but occasionally, he played a lead guitar role to Robertson's rhythm guitar. Page sometimes assumed guitarist duties on tracks he did not sing on, though never to the exclusion of Robertson on guitar as well.\n\nIn 2002, Page won an International Achievement Award at the SOCAN Awards in Toronto for the song \"Pinch Me\" he co-wrote with Ed Robertson.\n\nBy 2004, Page was having reservations about his contributions to the band. He has indicated that he participated in the recordings of \"Barenaked for the Holidays\" and \"Snacktime!\" despite being opposed to the recording of both albums. Concerning \"Snacktime!\", Page indicated, \"[i]t was a lot of fun to do, but it wasn't my idea. I was along for the ride.\"\n\nOn February 24, 2009, it was announced by both Page and the other members of Barenaked Ladies that Page would be leaving the group to pursue other opportunities including solo projects and theatrical opportunities, and that the remainder of the band would continue in his absence. The decision had been made about a week and a half before the public announcement, with one reason being the rest of the band's desire to record a new album, and Page's reluctance to do so. Page believes that his much-publicized drug arrest in Syracuse, New York hastened his already-imminent split with the band.\n\nPage commented in August 2011 that around the time of his arrest, \"the band was no longer the joyous place that it once was, but it hadn't been joyous for a long time before that. It wasn't that we didn't put on good shows, we still had a great time onstage every night,\" he added. \"But it became a place where work was just about the stress and not the end product. And (the arrest and band tension) made me gather the strength to go out and do what I always wanted to do.\"\n\nIn September 2015, TMZ discovered court documents filed by Steven Page over \"The Big Bang Theory Theme\". He alleges that he was promised 20% of the proceeds from the song, which includes revenue generated from the greatest hits album that includes it, and claims that former bandmate Robertson has kept that money entirely for himself.\n\nOn March 25, 2018, Page performed with Barenaked Ladies for the first time in nine years at the Juno Awards in Vancouver, in celebration of the band's induction into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame. Though there were reportedly no plans to make the reunion permanent, neither side had necessarily ruled it out.\n\nAs a young man, Page was a fan of British singer-songwriter Stephen Duffy, who was a founding member of Duran Duran and the frontman for the group The Lilac Time, and began corresponding with him after Duffy replied to his fan letter. Page was ultimately invited to co-write with Duffy in the early 1990s, and several co-written songs subsequently appeared on BNL albums, starting with \"Maybe You Should Drive.\" With the shift to a stronger intra-band writing process, Page/Duffy material found itself without a forum.\n\nIn June 2005, Page released his first \"solo\" album, of which all but one song were Page/Duffy co-writes (the other was written by Page alone). The project was billed as The Vanity Project (as both the album and artist name). Page implied in interviews that the project was his alone, and that it was a forum for him to collaborate with writers/artists outside BNL. At the time, he suggested that future albums might not involve Duffy, but could feature other collaborations. However, given his subsequent departure from Barenaked Ladies, Page elected to label his follow-up solo record as a \"Steven Page\" record.\n\nFollowing his departure from Barenaked Ladies, Page's first major project was to complete writing music for the first production of \"\" at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival in Summer 2009. During that summer, he embarked on a tour of music festivals (mostly folk festivals) accompanied by Kevin Fox on cello.\n\nPage set up promotional accounts for himself on several social networking websites under his name and under the billing \"The Steven Pages\".\n\nHe performed in the song \"He's a Really Useful Engine\" for \"Thomas and the Magic Railroad\" in 2000\n\nPage's first release following his split with Barenaked Ladies was \"A Singer Must Die\", a studio recording of songs he performed in a pair of concerts, Songbook II, with the contemporary music group Art of Time Ensemble. Following the album's release on February 16, 2010, the artists embarked on a 12-date concert tour. Page participated in other concerts with Art of Time Ensemble, including Take This Waltz (a collection of waltzes), and a performance of the Beatles' \"Abbey Road\" album, using semi-classical arrangements by Art of Time Ensemble. In November 2011, Page performed a songbook concert, Songbook 6, featuring new songs. He also sang in performances of the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper\" album akin to the previous \"Abbey Road\" concert.\n\nPage's first original material album under his own name, \"Page One\", was released on 19 October 2010. Page toured the record across Canada and the US, including a string of shows supporting the Goo Goo Dolls.\n\nOn 1 January 1, 2011, Page performed at the NHL Winter Classic and led the singing of Canada's national anthem before the game. He performed Leonard Cohen's \"Hallelujah\" at the state funeral of Jack Layton on 27 August 2011.\n\nOn 17 January 2012, Page released a new single containing two new songs, \"A Different Sort of Solitude\" and \"Manchild\". \"A Different Sort of Solitude\" was written for the film \"French Immersion\". \"Manchild\" was co-written with Craig Northey and is the b-side of the single.\n\nOn the same day as the release of the single, Page was nominated for the 32nd Annual Genie Awards for the composition of \"A Different Sort of Solitude\".\n\nPage has hosted a television show, \"The Illegal Eater\", in which he is featured traveling to various cities in search of underground restaurants and/or pop up supper clubs.\n\nIn July 2014, it was announced that Page had been working on a new studio album. The album, \"\", was released on 11 March 2016.\n\nPage released the first single \"White Noise\" from the album \"\", which was released on 14 September 2018.\n\n\"Here's What It Takes\", a musical written by Page and Daniel MacIvor, was slated to premiere at the 2020 Stratford Festival. With the production shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada, Page has performed a weekly series of home concerts through Dan Mangan's Side Door platform. He and the show's cast recorded a version of the musical's closing song \"No Song Left to Save Me\" for an appearance on CBC Radio's \"Q\".\n\nOn July 16, 2016, Page performed a show as a member of a band called the \"Trans-Canada Highwaymen\", a supergroup of fellow Canadian musicians, including Moe Berg of The Pursuit of Happiness, Chris Murphy of Sloan, and Craig Northey of The Odds (Northey also performs as Page's lead guitarist at his solo shows). The band subsequently announced a tour which began in April, 2017. The band has not written any original material and instead performs sets completely of covers of popular songs from the members' respective bands.\n\nPage was born to an Ashkenazi Jewish mother and a father of Anglo Protestant background. Although Page's father, Victor, converted to Judaism to appease Page's mother's religious grandparents, her grandparents disowned him nonetheless. His mother's Jewish background was the subject of an episode of a CBC genealogy program called \"Who Do You Think You Are?\"\n\nPage has been married twice. His first wife was Toronto musician and teacher Carolyn Ricketts, whom he wed on December 28, 1993. The two separated in February 2007, and divorced in 2009. They have three sons: Isaac (b. November 12, 1996); Benjamin (b. December 15, 1998); and Jonah (b. April 16, 2001).\n\nPage was arrested for cocaine possession on July 18, 2008. Page was found guilty of possession and ordered to drug treatment and to stay clean for six months.\n\nPage purchased a house in Fayetteville, New York with then-girlfriend Christine Benedicto in 2009, and splits his time between there and Toronto, where his children reside. Page married Benedicto on July 23, 2011, and the couple spent their honeymoon in Paris.\n\nPage stated publicly in 2011 that he suffers from bipolar disorder. He said that he has gone through periods of self-medicating in order to relieve the symptoms. Since leaving Barenaked Ladies, he has been able to focus more on managing and treating his illness and has cited his sons as being his source of strength for keeping healthy and continuing treatment.\n\nPage has been an avid member of the New Democratic Party, and was a notable supporter of the late Jack Layton, who was the party's leader. He performed Leonard Cohen's \"Hallelujah\" at Layton's funeral.\n\nAs of August 31, 2008, he was a member of the board of directors marketing and events committee for World Wildlife Fund Canada (WWF-Canada).\n\nAs of July 2007, Page was a member of the WindShare co-op that built/owns the wind turbine at Exhibition Place in downtown Toronto.\n\nPage owns a farmhouse near Toronto. At some point prior to the recording of \"Barenaked for the Holidays\", he invested in building a recording studio at his farmhouse, which he has named Fresh Baked Woods. The band's first record there was the aforementioned Holidays album. The band also used the studio for the recording sessions for the \"Barenaked Ladies Are Me\" / \"Barenaked Ladies Are Men\" albums. Page acquired the console from Le Studio, where the band recorded \"Gordon\" (among the many famous albums recorded at that studio), and integrated some of its equipment into the console at Fresh Baked Woods.\n\nIn 2013, Page made a cameo appearance on the \"How I Met Your Mother\" episode \"P.S. I Love You\".\n\nPage was a contestant on the Canadian game show \"Bumper Stumpers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932648", "title": "Ed Robertson", "text": "Ed Robertson\n\nLloyd Edward Elwyn \"Ed\" Robertson (born October 25, 1970) is a Canadian musician, best known as the lead singer, guitarist, and songwriter of the band Barenaked Ladies. He, along with former member Steven Page, founded the group in 1988. As of Page's departure in 2009, Robertson and bassist Jim Creeggan are the only remaining original members of the band.\n\nRobertson was born in Scarborough, Ontario. He is the youngest of five children, with two sisters, Lynn and Bonnie, and two brothers, Bill and Doug; He claims to have been named on a bet. His mother, Wilma, was a secretary for Imperial Oil, and his father, Earl, worked both as a shipping foreman for Honeywell, and as an egg grader. He believes that his conception was an \"accident\" because he is several years younger than his siblings, who were all born about one year apart. He credits this situation with allowing him to have the experience of being both in a big family, and an only child—once his siblings moved out of their home.\n\nRobertson began working part-time when he was 13 years old. He has bragged about being named employee of the month at his local Wendy's in July 1985 (he considers this his life's greatest accomplishment). He also answered phones at a CAA office. Robertson appeared in the music video for \"All We Are\" by Kim Mitchell from Mitchell's 1985 album \"Akimbo Alogo\".\n\nRobertson was brought up in a home where country music was played almost exclusively; he is still fond of it today. He sang harmonies with his family and learned how to play guitar, which his father also played. Once he began playing guitar for other people, around grade five, he knew he wanted to be a performer. He was in several bands during his school days including a band that covered a collection of rock artists, such as Rush and Kim Mitchell.\n\nIn grade four, Robertson entered the gifted program at Churchill Heights Public School. Robertson's first run-in with Steven Page, who was a year ahead in the same gifted program, was when he unknowingly \"stole\" Page's best friend. It would be several years before the two would really speak to each other. Page saw Robertson at a Harvey's restaurant after a Peter Gabriel concert and was surprised to find that Robertson was also a fan. This ultimately led to them talking and becoming friends.\n\nRobertson attended Woburn Collegiate Institute with Page and, around grade twelve, realized he needed to focus on passing his courses to get into university, believing his goal of being musician was somewhat of a \"pipe dream\". It was around this point when he began playing with Page. The two became counsellors at Scarborough Schools Music Camp in the summer of 1988, and spent a lot of time together singing songs and playing guitar. Page was flattered that Robertson knew some of the songs he had written, which Robertson had learned after acquiring a copy of a cassette tape Page had recorded. Page was also impressed by Robertson's ear for singing harmony. Upon receiving a telephone call from an organizer of a benefit concert which Robertson had committed his recently broken-up band to play, Robertson quickly advised that he would still be performing but the name of the band had changed to Barenaked Ladies, a name he had previously joked with Page about. Robertson then phoned Page and invited Page to be his bandmate in Barenaked Ladies. The benefit concert marked the first performance of the duo as Barenaked Ladies.\n\nRobertson was accepted to York University, but dropped out after only half a year, choosing to devote his time completely to the band. He and Page spent the next two years building the reputation and following for Barenaked Ladies, joined along the way by Andy and Jim Creeggan, and Tyler Stewart.\n\nRobertson was the second member of Barenaked Ladies to get married, and the first to have children. He married his longtime girlfriend, Natalie Herbert, in June 1994. They had their first child, Hannah on November 17, 1995; their second child, Lyle was born September 29, 1999; and their third child, Arden was born August 7, 2002. As the first in the band to have children, he was also one of the first to advocate for spending less time touring and more time at home with family. When he is not working with Barenaked Ladies, Robertson prefers to spend as much time as he can with his family in Toronto, or at their Bancroft-area cottage.\n\nRobertson's brother Doug died after crashing his motorcycle in June 1993. The experience affected Ed, which came through in his songwriting. The song \"Am I The Only One?\" from the 1994 Barenaked Ladies album \"Maybe You Should Drive\", which he had been writing about his then-future wife, ended up being about the loss of his brother; the song \"Leave\" from 1998's \"Stunt\" is about the image of his brother haunting him in hotel rooms while on tour; and the song \"Tonight is the Night I Fell Asleep at the Wheel\" from 2000's \"Maroon\" was based on Robertson's curiosity about what his brother was thinking about in his last moments. His mother died on December 13, 2008 at age 72, and his father died on June 10, 2011 at the age of 76. Robertson wrote the song \"Moonstone\" about his mother passing away. It was recorded during the \"All in Good Time\" sessions, and although it was not included in the basic album, it was released as a bonus track.\n\nRobertson is the primary guitarist for the band, playing dominantly rhythm guitar (evenly split between acoustic and electric) on nearly all of the band's songs. Two of his three bandmates also play guitar with the band on certain songs (Kevin Hearn sometimes on lead, and Jim Creeggan occasionally playing rhythm guitar for songs he sings lead on). During his tenure with the band, Steven Page also played rhythm guitar and, occasionally, lead guitar on around a third of the band's songs. Robertson is capable of playing several other instruments including drums, pedal steel guitar, banjo and mandolin, but he rarely plays anything other than guitar, or occasionally 6-string banjo, on stage. On each passing album, he has sung lead on an increased number of songs, to the point where he shared approximately equal duty with Page by the time the latter left the band. Robertson has sung lead on a number of the band's singles since the success of 1998's \"One Week\", the first single released with a Robertson lead (not including \"If I Had $1000000\" which featured a Page/Robertson call-and-response lead vocal). He, along with his other bandmates, has taken over some of Page's lead and harmony vocal parts following the latter's departure. Robertson also often includes rapping and beatboxing into performances with Barenaked Ladies.\n\nRobertson contributed to the writing for the band from their first album. Much of his contribution initially came in the way of co-writing with Page. As the years have passed, Robertson has written an increased amount on his own. He credits Jason Plumb in part for changing his perspective on songwriting, in that instead of trying to write one great song, he would commit to writing a certain number of ideas and they might not all be great, but parts of the songs would sometimes fit together into great songs. As well, Plumb encouraged Robertson to simply come up with an idea that fascinates him, and then to analyse it. The first song he wrote with this method was \"When I Fall\", based on the concept of \"a window washer who's afraid of heights\".\n\nBesides Tyler Stewart, who does not typically compose, Robertson is the only other band member who has not written and recorded songs outside of the Barenaked Ladies for himself in the form of a side project. Robertson has preferred to spend creative energy outside the band in co-writing and producing songs for other people (including Andy Kim and Jason Plumb).\n\nIn 2002, Robertson won an International Achievement Award at the SOCAN Awards in Toronto for the song \"Pinch Me\" that he co-wrote with Steven Page.\n\nIn 2006, Robertson began starring in \"Ed's Up\" for OLN Canada. The program covers his journeys by plane to various locations given to him only in the form of GPS coordinates. At these locations, he learns about and participates in a local occupation. The series premiered on November 1, 2006; Robertson filmed a second season in the summer of 2007, which premiered on November 7. A third season was filmed over the summer of 2008.\n\nIn 2008, Ed Robertson guest co-hosted \"Daily Planet\" on Discovery Channel for several weeks while one of the regular hosts was away.\n\nHe can be seen in a handful of season 8 and 9 episodes of \"\" as the music teacher, Mr. Fowler, which aired new in 2009 on Canada's CTV and TeenNick in the States.\n\nOn May 29, 2012, Robertson was the guest co-host on the U.S. television morning talk show, \"Live with Kelly\".\n\nFrom 2004, Robertson voiced the occasionally recurring character of Captain Butch Flowers/Agent Florida in the web series \"Red vs. Blue\".\n\nRobertson received his pilot's license in 2005, and the 2007 season of \"Ed's Up\" was purportedly designed around his attempting to earn his floatplane license. He also rides a motorcycle, which he has taken on some of the band's tours in the past to ride during off-time.\n\nIn April 2009, Robertson was recognized for his interest in aviation and the Canadian military by being named Honorary Colonel of 424 Transport and Rescue Squadron of the Canadian Forces. Following the signing, HCol Robertson said that the investiture was \"the most incredible honour\" he has received. \"I have always been thoroughly blown away by the incredible work of our military,\" he said. \"It's a day I thought I would never see come. When I got the letter from the Defence Minister, I was, like, ‘This is real; I am actually going to be an honorary colonel!’\" Robertson held the position until March 2012, noting that, although he had not been able to be around as much as he would have liked, the Squadron felt like family to him.\n\nRobertson is fan of video games, and claims to have had almost every console system released since he was a child. He usually brings several consoles and many games on tour with him. Robertson is a fan of the popular Rooster Teeth series \"Red vs. Blue\", lending his voice to the series to voice , during a time travel episode in the . Originally for a one-off episode, Flowers was re-introduced late in the , four episodes before the season finale. Flowers later made an appearance in the season finale of the . Rooster Teeth Productions has also made special videos, using \"Red vs. Blue\" characters, to be shown at Barenaked Ladies shows. In February 2009, he starred as Captain Dynamic, in Rooster Teeth Productions live action mini-series, \"Captain Dynamic\", which promotes the video game \"City of Heroes\".\n\nRobertson is an avid pinball player and collector. The title of Barenaked Ladies 2015 album \"Silverball\" reflects this, and the music video for the title track was filmed in Robertson's own collection of 10 pinball machines. In February 2016 Ed appeared on the popular Twitch pinball stream \"Bro, Do You Even Pinball?\" where he talked about his love for the game and competed against the shows hosts from Buffalo Pinball.\n\nRobertson won Humber College's inaugural Euterpe Award at the close of the 2005 Humber Songwriting Workshop. In his honour, the school named a scholarship after him for their summer songwriting workshop.\n\nHaving an interest in acting, Robertson had a brief appearance in \"Charlie's Angels 2\", which was offered to him by director Joseph McGinty Nichol, who had directed Barenaked Ladies' video for \"One Week\". Robertson had a larger role in the independent Canadian film \"Love, Sex and Eating the Bones\", which was directed by childhood friend Sudz Sutherland.\n\nRobertson collaborated with astronaut and musician Chris Hadfield in writing a brand new song for Music Monday 2013. Music Monday is a Canadian event to spread the importance of music education. The song, written by Ed and Chris, premiered on February 7, 2013 with Chris joining in from the International Space Station.\n\nAt 12:30 pm on August 24, 2008, Robertson was involved in a plane crash while piloting his amphibious Cessna 206, north of Bancroft, Ontario. He and his three passengers walked away from the crash with no apparent injuries. The Transport Canada Civil Aviation Daily Occurrence Report (CADOR) indicated that the crash occurred after take-off from Baptiste Lake when Robertson apparently lost airspeed and settled into the trees approximately 300 metres in from the shoreline. The Transportation Safety Board handled the investigation. After several weeks, the TSB was unable to determine a cause of the crash, but cleared Robertson of any misconduct. Additionally, no evidence of mechanical problems was found. Investigator Ray Simpson reported that the investigation was unlikely to produce any further results, and had therefore been essentially closed. Simpson added that undetectable air currents could have been the cause of the crash, but there is no evidence for or against the possibility. He commended Robertson for being \"outstanding\" in his cooperation with the investigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932650", "title": "Thermaic Gulf", "text": "Thermaic Gulf\n\nThe Thermaic Gulf (), also called the Gulf of Salonika and the Macedonian Gulf, is a gulf constituting the northwest corner of the Aegean Sea. The city of Thessaloniki is at its northeastern tip, and it is bounded by Pieria and Imathia on the west and the Chalkidiki peninsula on the east, with Cape Kassandra at the southeasternmost corner. It is named after the ancient town of Therma, modern Thessaloniki. It is about long.\n\nBy narrower definitions, the Thermaic Gulf is bounded on the west by the line from the mouth of the Vardar or Axios to Cape Megalo Embolo, making it about long; while the smaller Gulf of Salonica is bounded by a line running from the mouth of the Gallikos to Karabournaki (Mikro Embolo).\n\nTo the Romans, the gulf was also known as \"Thermaicus\" or \"Thermaeus sinus\" (\"Gulf of Therma\") and as \"Macedonicus sinus\" (\"The Gulf of Macedon\", or \"The Macedonian Gulf\"). One of its modern names is the \"Gulf of Salonica\", named after the city of Thessaloniki which sprawls around and along the northeastern coast of the gulf.\n\nPlaces that lie on the gulf include Sani, Kassandreia, ancient Potidaea, Nea Moudania, Agia Triada, Neoi Epivates, Peraia, Kalochori, Methoni, Pydna, Paralia Katerinis and Olympiaki Akti. The rivers emptying into the gulf are the Pineios, Aliakmon, Loudias, Gallikos and Axios/Vardar; several streams including one near Pydna also empty into the gulf. The Thermaic Gulf was significantly larger in classical times, with many ancient seaside cities (e.g. Pella) are now found several kilometers inland. The extensive silting mainly affects the northern and western parts of the gulf, which receive the bulk of alluvial outflow. The gulf is home to many famous, pristine beaches, which include Sani Beach. However, there are no beaches on the northwest coast, where wetlands stretch from Methone (northwest coast) to Thessaloniki's western suburb of Kalochori.\n\nThe Port of Thessaloniki is the gulf's largest and busiest port, while another twelve small ports provide sea transport in, out and around the Thermaic gulf. Major road networks of northern Greece such as the A1/E75 motorway (Athens - Thessaloniki) encircles the western portion of the gulf, while the A25 (Thessaloniki - Nea Moudania motorway) almost encircles the eastern part of it.\n"}
{"id": "1932655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932655", "title": "The Holy Ground", "text": "The Holy Ground\n\nThe Holy Ground is a local place name in the town of Cobh, County Cork, on the southern coast of Ireland. The song \"The Holy Ground\" (see below) is named after this area. The name is ironic, the piece of ground known as the Holy Ground was the town's red-light district in the 19th century when the town, then known as Queenstown, was a major stopping point for ships crossing the Atlantic and had a large throughput of seafarers. There were plans to build a new yachting marina on the foreshore in front of the Holy Ground, but this is now uncertain. \n\n\"The Holy Ground\" is a traditional Irish folk song, performed by The Clancy Brothers, The Dubliners, The Jolly Rogers, the Poxy Boggards, the Brobdingnagian Bards, Mary Black, Pete Seeger, The Tossers, and Beatnik Turtle, among others.\n\nJohn Loesberg points out that although the song is now closely associated with Cobh in Co Cork, it probably originated in Wales where it was known as Old Swansea Town Once More, or sometimes as The Lass of Swansea Town.\n\nRobert Gogan describes how the song was a sea shanty sung by \nsailors as a mental diversion as they carried out various tasks at sea such as raising the anchor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932657", "title": "Client politics", "text": "Client politics\n\nClient politics is the type of politics when an organized minority or interest group benefits at the expense of the public. Client politics may have a strong interaction with the dynamics of identity politics. \n\nThis is particularly common in a pluralist system, such as in the United States, where minorities can have considerable power shaping public policy. The opposite of client politics is 'entrepreneurial' politics, or conviction politics.\n\nAn example of this is tariffs on imported goods in order to keep prices high. The public is largely unaware and/or indifferent to a slight increase in the prices of goods while manufacturers are dependent and very aware of the subsidizing effect of tariffs on competing products. Thus, local manufacturers will most likely strive to maintain tariffs and may succeed quite often.\n\nAnother example with farmers is the common use of potentially harmful pesticides. Due to the sheer amount of pesticides on the market and the difficulty on testing each one, there lacks conclusive evidence that many of the pesticides in use would harm the environment, leading to a lack of public consensus of what to do. Farmers, on the other hand, are extremely sensitive to the benefits that such chemicals have on crop yield and will organize to keep pesticides available for use.\n\nMost pork barrel legislation would be considered to be client politics.\n"}
{"id": "1932659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932659", "title": "Battle of Narva (1944)", "text": "Battle of Narva (1944)\n\nThe Battle of Narva was a military campaign between the German Army Detachment \"Narwa\" and the Soviet Leningrad Front fought for possession of the strategically important Narva Isthmus on 2 February – 10 August 1944 during World War II.\n\nThe campaign took place in the northern section of the Eastern Front and consisted of two major phases: the Battle for Narva Bridgehead (February to July 1944) and the Battle of Tannenberg Line (July–August 1944). The Soviet Kingisepp–Gdov Offensive and Narva Offensives (15–28 February, 1–4 March and 18–24 March) were part of the Red Army Winter Spring Campaign of 1944. Following Joseph Stalin's \"Broad Front\" strategy, these battles coincided with the Dnieper–Carpathian Offensive (December 1943 – April 1944) and the Lvov–Sandomierz Offensive (July–August 1944). A number of foreign volunteers and local Estonian conscripts participated in the battle as part of the German forces. By giving its support to the illegal German conscription call, the underground National Committee of the Republic of Estonia had hoped to recreate a national army and restore the independence of the country.\n\nAs a continuation of the Leningrad–Novgorod Offensive of January 1944, the Soviet Estonian operation pushed the front westward to the Narva River, aiming to destroy \"Narwa\" and to thrust deep into Estonia. The Soviet units established a number of bridgeheads on the western bank of the river in February while the Germans maintained a bridgehead on the eastern bank. Subsequent attempts failed to expand their toehold. German counterattacks annihilated the bridgeheads to the north of Narva and reduced the bridgehead south of the town, stabilizing the front until July 1944. The Soviet Narva Offensive (July 1944) led to the capture of the city after the German troops retreated to their prepared Tannenberg Defence Line in the Sinimäed Hills 16 kilometres from Narva. In the ensuing Battle of Tannenberg Line, the German army group held its ground. Stalin's main strategic goal—a quick recovery of Estonia as a base for air and seaborne attacks against Finland and an invasion of East Prussia—was not achieved. As a result of the tough defence of the German forces the Soviet war effort in the Baltic Sea region was hampered for seven and a half months.\n\nTerrain played a significant role in operations around Narva. The elevation above sea level rarely rises above 100 meters in the area and the land is cut by numerous waterways, including the Narva and Plyussa Rivers. The bulk of the land in the region is forested and large swamps inundate areas of low elevation. The effect of the terrain on operations was one of channelization; because of the swamps, only certain areas were suitable for large-scale troop movement.\nOn a strategic scale, a natural choke point was present between the northern shore of Lake Peipus and the Gulf of Finland. The 45 kilometre wide strip of land was entirely bisected by the Narva River and had large areas of wilderness. The primary transportation routes, the Narva–Tallinn highway and railway, ran on an east-west axis near and parallel to the coastline. There were no other east-west transportation routes capable of sustaining troop movement on a large scale in the region.\n\nOn 14 January 1944, the Leningrad Front launched the Krasnoye Selo–Ropsha Offensive, aimed at forcing the German 18th Army back from its positions near Oranienbaum. On the third day of the offensive, the Soviets broke through German lines and pushed westward. The Army Group North evacuated the civilian population of Narva.\n\nBy 1944 it was fairly routine practice for Stavka to assign its operating fronts new and more ambitious missions while the Soviet Armed Forces were conducting major offensive operations. The rationale was that relentless pressure might trigger a German collapse. For the 1943/1944 winter campaign, Stalin ordered the Red Army to conduct major offensives along the entire Soviet-German front in a continuation of the 'Broad Front' strategy he had pursued since the beginning of the war. This was applied in consonance with his long-standing rationale that, if the Red Army applied pressure along the entire front, German defences were likely to break in at least one section. The Soviet winter campaign included major assaults across the entire expanse the front in the Ukraine, Belorussia and against the German Panther Line in the region of the Baltic Sea.\n\nBreaking through the Narva Isthmus situated between the Gulf of Finland and Lake Peipus was of major strategic importance to the Soviet Armed Forces. The success of the Estonian operation would have provided an unobstructed lane to advance along the coast to Tallinn, forcing the German Army Group North to escape from Estonia for fear of getting cornered. For the Baltic Fleet trapped in an eastern bay of the Gulf of Finland, Tallinn was the closest exit to the Baltic Sea. The ejection of the Army Group North from Estonia would have made Finland subject to air and amphibious attacks originating from Estonian bases. The prospect of an invasion of East Prussia through Estonia appealed even more to Stavka, as it could bring German resistance to a standstill. With the participation of Leonid Govorov, commander of the Leningrad Front, and Vladimir Tributz, commander of the Baltic Fleet, a scheme was prepared to destroy the Army Group North. Stalin ordered the capture of Narva at all costs no later than 17 February:\n\nAfter the failure of the Leningrad Front, Stalin gave a new order on 22 February: to break through the \"Narwa\" defence, give a shock at Pärnu, eliminate the German forces in Estonia, direct two armies at Southeast Estonia, keep going through Latvia and open the road to East Prussia and Central Europe. On the same day, the Soviet Union presented Finland with peace conditions. While Finland regarded the terms as unacceptable, the war waging around them appeared dangerous enough to keep negotiating. To influence Finland, Stalin needed to take Estonia. His wish was an order to the commanders of the Leningrad Front, with their heads at stake. After reinforcements, the Narva front acquired the highest concentration of forces at any point on the Eastern Front in March 1944.\n\nThree Soviet armies were deployed at the maximum concentration of forces in March 1944. The 2nd Shock Army was placed north of Narva, the 59th Army was positioned south of Narva and the 8th Army south of the 59th Army along the 50 km long Narva River stretching down to Lake Peipus. Detailed information on the size of the Soviet forces at the Narva front during the Winter-Spring campaign has not been published by any sources. It is impossible to give an overview on the Soviet strength until the Red Army archival information is made available to non-Russian investigators or published. Estonian historian Hannes Walter has estimated the number of Soviet troops in the Battle of Narva at 205,000, which is in accordance with the number of divisions multiplied by the assumed sizes of the divisions presented by the Estonian historian Mart Laar. The order of battle of the Leningrad Front as of 1 March 1944:\n\nSeparate detachments:\n\nAt the start of the Narva Offensive (July 1944), the Leningrad Front deployed 136,830 troops, 150 tanks, 2,500 assault guns and 800+ aircraft.\n\nThe Oberkommando des Heeres believed it was crucial to stabilize the front on the Narva River. A Soviet breakthrough here would have meant the loss of the northern coast of Estonia and with it loss of control of the Gulf of Finland, giving the Soviet Baltic Fleet access to the Baltic Sea. A breakthrough by the fleet would have threatened German control of the entire Baltic Sea and the shipment of iron ore imports from Sweden. The loss of Narva would have meant fuel derived from the adjacent Kohtla-Järve oil shale deposits (32 kilometers west of Narva on the coast) would be denied to the German war machine. As Colonel General Georg Lindemann said in his daily order to the 11th Infantry Division:\n\nAs Finland was negotiating with the Soviet Union for peace, the Oberkommando des Heeres paid attention to the Narva front, using every means to convince the Finnish Defence Command that their defence was going to hold. The German command informed their Finnish colleagues in detail about the events on the Narva front while a delegation of the Finnish Defence Command visited Narva in spring 1944. Besides being a narrow corridor well suited for defence, the terrain in the area of Narva was dominated by forests and swamps. Directly behind the Narva River lay the city itself, ideally positioned as a bastion from which defending forces could influence combat to both the north and south of the city along the river valley.\n\nThis position was the northern segment of the German Panther Line and it was where Generalfeldmarschall Georg von Küchler in charge of the Army Group wanted to set up his defence. Hitler initially refused and replaced von Küchler with Generalfeldmarschall Walter Model as the commander of the Army Group North. Model agreed with von Küchler, and as one of Hitler's favourites he also was allowed more freedom. Using this freedom to his advantage, Model managed to fall back and begin establishing a line along the Narva River with a strong bridgehead on the eastern bank in Ivangorod. This appeased Hitler and followed the German standard operating procedure for defending a river line. On 1 February 1944, the High Command of Army Group North tasked the Sponheimer Group (renamed Army Detachment \"Narwa\" on 23 February) to defend the segment of the Panther Line at the isthmus between the Gulf of Finland and Lake Peipus at all costs. Stalin presented Finland with his peace terms on 8 February 1944, after the initial Soviet success. With the tactical victories of \"Narwa\" from mid-February to April, Finland terminated the negotiations on 18 April 1944.\n\nDuring the course of the occupation of Estonia by Nazi Germany, Estonian expectations of regaining their independence began to diminish. Pursuant to the Constitution of Estonia, formally still in force, Estonian politicians formed an underground National Committee of the Republic of Estonia which convened on 14 February 1944. As President Konstantin Päts was currently imprisoned by the Soviet authorities, the acting head of state according to the Constitution was the former Prime Minister Jüri Uluots. The German-appointed Estonian Self-Administration had previously attempted several unsuccessful general mobilisation calls, which were illegal under the Hague Conventions (1899 and 1907) and opposed by Uluots. In February 1944 when the Leningrad Front reached the vicinity of Narva and the Soviet return became a real threat, Uluots switched his stand on the German draft. In a radio speech on 7 February, Uluots reasoned that armed Estonians could become useful against both Germans and Soviets. He also hinted that Estonian troops on Estonian soil would have: \"... a significance much wider than what I could and would be able to disclose here.\" Along with other Estonian politicians, Uluots saw resistance against the Soviet Armed Forces as a means of preventing the restoration of Soviet power and restoring Estonia's independence once the war was over. The conscription call was received with popular support and the mobilisation brought together 38,000 men who were formed into seven border guard regiments and the fictitiously named 20th Estonian SS-Volunteer Division, commonly referred to among the German Armed Forces as the Estonian Division. Combined with the Finnish Infantry Regiment 200 (voluntary Estonians in the Finnish army) and the conscripts within the Waffen SS, a total of 70,000 Estonian troops were under Nazi German arms in 1944.\n\nIn February 1944, the L and LIV Army Corps along with the III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps were on the left flank of the 18th Army as they retreated to Narva. On 4 February, the Sponheimer Group was released from the 18th Army and subordinated directly to the Army Group North. In support of the forces already in place, Hitler ordered reinforcements. The Panzer Corps Feldherrnhalle, with over 10,000 troops and their equipment, was airlifted from Belorussia into Estonia via the airfield at Tartu on 1 February. A week later, the 5th Battalion of the Panzergrenadier Großdeutschland Division arrived at the front. The Grenadier Regiment Gnesen (an ad hoc regiment formed from replacement army units in Poland) was sent from Germany and arrived on 11 February. Three days later, the 214th Infantry Division was transferred from Norway. Over the next two weeks various units were added to the group, including the 11th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Division \"Nordland\", several divisions of the Wehrmacht, the Estonian Division and local Estonian border guard and Estonian Auxiliary Police battalions. Infantry General Otto Sponheimer was replaced by General Johannes Frießner and the Sponheimer Group was renamed Army Detachment \"Narwa\" on 23 February. The Army Group North ordered the deployment of \"Narwa\" on 22 February in the following positions: III SS Panzer Corps deployed to Narva, Ivangorod Bridgehead on the east bank of the river and north of Narva; the XXXXIII Army Corps against the Krivasoo Bridgehead south of the city; and the XXVI Army Corps to the sector between the Krivasoo Bridgehead and Lake Peipus. As of 1 March 1944, there were a total of 123,541 personnel subordinated to the Army Group in the following order of battle:\n\nSeparate units:\n\nOther military units:\n\nIn the summer of 1944, the Panzergrenadier Division Feldherrnhalle and seven infantry divisions were removed from the Narva Front, leaving 22,250 troops at the location.\n\nLaunching the Kingisepp–Gdov Offensive on 1 February, the Soviet 2nd Shock Army's 109th Rifle Corps captured the town of Kingisepp on the first day. The German 18th Army was forced into new positions on the eastern bank of the Narva River. Forward units of the 2nd Shock Army crossed the river and established several bridgeheads on the west bank to the north and south of the city of Narva on 2 February. The 2nd Shock Army expanded the bridgehead in the Krivasoo Swamp south of Narva five days later, temporarily cutting the Narva–Tallinn Railway behind the III SS Panzer Corps. Govorov was unable to encircle the smaller German Army Group, which called in reinforcements. These came mostly from the newly mobilised Estonians, motivated to resist the looming Soviet return. At the same time, the Soviet 108th Rifle Corps landed units across Lake Peipus 120 kilometres south of Narva and established a bridgehead around the village of Meerapalu. By a coincidence, the I.Battalion, SS Volunteer Grenadier Regiment 45 (1st Estonian), which was headed for Narva, reached the same area. A battalion of the 44th Infantry Regiment (consisting of personnel from East Prussia), the I.Battalion, 1st Estonian and an air squadron destroyed the Soviet bridgehead on 15–16 February. The Mereküla Landing Operation was conducted as the 517-strong 260th Independent Naval Infantry Brigade landed at the coastal borough of Mereküla behind the Sponheimer Group lines. However, the unit was almost completely destroyed.\n\nThe Soviet 30th Guards Rifle Corps and the 124th Rifle Corps launched a new Narva Offensive on 15 February. The resistance by units of the Sponheimer Group exhausted the Soviet army, which halted its offensive. Both sides used the pause for bringing in additional forces. The fresh SS Volunteer Grenadier Regiments 45 and 46 (1st and 2nd Estonian) accompanied by units of the \"Nordland\" Division destroyed the Soviet bridgeheads north of Narva by 6 March. The newly arrived 59th Army attacked westwards from the Krivasoo Swamp and encircled the strong points of the 214th Infantry Division and Estonian 658th and 659th Eastern Battalions. The resistance of the encircled units gave the German command time to move in all available forces and to stop the 59th Army units' advance.\n\nThe Soviet air force conducted an air raid, leveling the historic town of Narva on 6 March. An air and artillery shock of 100,000 shells and grenades at the \"Nordland\" and \"Nederland\" detachments in Ivangorod prepared the way for the 30th Guards Rifle Division's attack on 8 March. Simultaneous pitched battles took place north of the town, where the 14th Rifle Corps supported by the artillery of the 8th Estonian Rifle Corps attempted to re-establish a bridgehead. Regiments of the Estonian SS Division repulsed the attacks, causing great Soviet losses.\n\nSoviet air assaults against civilians in Estonian towns were a part of the offensive, aimed at forcing the Estonians away from supporting the German side. The Soviet Long Range Aviation branch assaulted the Estonian capital of Tallinn on the night of 8–9 March. Approximately 40% of the housing was destroyed in the city; 25,000 people were left homeless and 500 civilians were killed. The result of the air raid was the opposite of what the Soviets intended, as people felt disgusted by the Soviet atrocities; more men answered the German conscription call.\n\nThe Soviet tank attack at Auvere Station was stopped by a squadron of the 502nd Heavy Tank Battalion on 17 March. The ensuing offensive continued for another week until the Soviet forces had suffered enough casualties to switch over to a defensive stance. This enabled \"Narwa\" to take the initiative.\n\nThe Strachwitz Battle Group annihilated the Soviet 8th Army shock troop wedge at the western end of the Krivasoo Bridgehead on 26 March. The German battle group destroyed the eastern tip of the bridgehead on 6 April. \"Generalmajor\" Hyacinth Graf Strachwitz von Groß-Zauche und Camminetz, inspired by the success, tried to eliminate the whole bridgehead but was unable to proceed due to the spring thaw that had rendered the swamp impassable for the Tiger I tanks. By the end of April, the parties had mutually exhausted their strengths. Relative calm settled on the front until late July 1944.\n\nThe Soviet breakthrough in Belorussia and Karelian Offensive forced the Army Group North to withdraw a large portion of their troops from Narva to the central part of the Eastern Front and to Finland. As there were insufficient forces for the defence of the former front line at Narva in July, the German army detachment began preparations for withdrawal to the Tannenberg defence line in the Sinimäed Hills 16 kilometres from Narva. The commanders of the Leningrad Front were unaware of the preparations; they designed a new Narva Offensive. Shock troops from the Finnish front were concentrated near the town, giving the Leningrad Front a 4:1 superiority both in manpower and equipment. Before the German forces had implemented their plan, the Soviet 8th Army launched their offensive; the Battle of Auvere was the result. The I.Battalion, 1st Estonian and the 44th Infantry Regiment repulsed the attack, inflicting heavy losses on the 8th Army. The \"Nordland\" and \"Nederland\" detachments in Ivangorod left their positions quietly during the night before 25 July. The evacuation was carried out according to the German plans until the 2nd Shock Army resumed the offensive in the morning. Supported by 280,000 shells and grenades from 1360 assault guns, the army crossed the river north of the town. The II.Battalion, 1st Estonian Regiment kept the Soviet shock Army from capturing the highway behind the retreating troops. The defensive operation led to the destruction of the SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 48 \"General Seyffardt\" due to tactical errors. The Soviet forces captured Narva on 26 July.\n\nThe Soviet vanguard 201st and 256th Rifle Divisions attacked the Tannenberg Line and captured part of the Orphanage Hill, the easternmost of the area. The Anti-Tank Company, SS Panzergrenadier Regiment 24 \"Danmark\" returned the hill to the hands of the \"Narwa\" the following night. The III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps repulsed subsequent Soviet attempts to capture the hills by tanks on the following day. The SS Reconnaissance Battalion 11 and the I.Battalion, Waffen Grenadier Regiment 47 (3rd Estonian) launched a counterattack during the night before 28 July. The assault collapsed under the Soviet tank fire which destroyed the Estonian battalion. In a pitched battle carried over to the next day without a break in the fighting, the two Soviet armies forced \"Narwa\" into new positions at the Grenadier Hill, the central one.\n\nThe climax of the Battle of Tannenberg Line was the Soviet attack of 29 July. The shock units suppressed the German resistance on the Orphanage Hill, while the Soviet main forces suffered heavy casualties in the subsequent assault at the Grenadier Hill. The Soviet tanks encircled it and the Tower Hill, the westernmost one. Steiner, the commander of the III SS Panzer Corps, sent out the remaining seven tanks, which hit the surprised Soviet armour and forced them back. This enabled an improvised battle group led by Hauptsturmführer Paul Maitla to launch a counterattack which recaptured the Grenadier Hill. Of the 136,830 Soviets initiating the offensive on 25 July, a few thousand had remained fit for combat by 1 August. The Soviet tank regiments had been demolished.\n\nWith swift reinforcements, the two Soviet armies continued their attacks. The Stavka demanded the destruction of the \"Narwa\" and the capture of Rakvere by 7 August. The 2nd Shock Army was back to 20,000 troops by 2 August while numerous attempts using unchanged tactics failed to break the multinational defence of the \"Narwa\". Leonid Govorov, the commander of the Leningrad Front terminated the offensive on 10 August.\n\nDuring the Soviet era, the losses in the battle of Narva were not released by the Soviets. In recent years, Russian authors have published some figures but not for the whole course of the battles. The number of Soviet casualties can only be estimated indirectly.\n\nThe Army Detachment \"Narwa\" lost 23,963 personnel as dead, wounded and missing in action in February 1944. During the following months through to 30 July 1944, an additional 34,159 German personnel were lost, 5,748 of them dead and 1,179 missing in action. The total German casualties during the initial phase of the campaign was approximately 58,000 men, 12,000 of them dead or missing in action. From 24 July to 10 August 1944, the German forces buried 1709 men in Estonia. Adding the troops missing in action, the number of dead in the period is estimated at approximately 2,500. Accounting the standard ratio of 1/4 of the wounded as irrecoverable losses, the number of German casualties in the later period of the battle was approximately 10,000. The total German casualties during the Battle of Narva is estimated at 14,000 dead or missing and 54,000 wounded or sick.\n\nOn 1 September, Finland announced the cessation of military cooperation with Germany to sign an armistice with the Soviet Union. On 4 September, Finland opened access for the Soviets to Finnish waters. With the Soviet offensive at Riga threatening to complete their encirclement, the Army Group North started preparations for the withdrawal of troops from Estonia in an operation codenamed Aster. The possible transportation corridors were thoroughly prepared using maps at headquarters. On 17 September 1944, a naval force under Vice-Admiral Theodor Burchardi began evacuating elements of the German formations and Estonian civilians. Within six days, around 50,000 troops and 1,000 prisoners had been removed. The elements of the 18th Army in Estonia were ordered to withdraw into Latvia.\n\nThe Soviet 1st, 2nd and 3rd Baltic Fronts launched their Baltic Offensive on 14 September. The operation was aimed at cutting off the Army Group North in Estonia. After much argument, Adolf Hitler agreed to allow the total evacuation of the troops in mainland Estonia. The 2nd Shock Army launched its Tallinn Offensive on 17 September from the Emajõgi River Front in South Estonia. At midnight on 18 September, the Army Detachment \"Narwa\" left its positions in the Tannenberg Line. The 8th Army reconnaissance reported the evacuation five hours after it had been completed and the Soviets started to chase the troops towards Estonian harbours and the Latvian border. The III SS Panzer Corps reached Pärnu by 20 September, while the II SS Corps retreated southwards to form the 18th Army's rearguard. The Soviet armies advanced to take Tallinn on 22 September. The Soviets had demolished the harbour at Haapsalu by 24 September. The German Panzer Corps evacuated Vormsi Island just off the coast on the following day, successfully completing the evacuation of mainland Estonia with only minor casualties. The 8th Army went on to take the remaining West Estonian archipelago in the Moonsund Landing Operation. The Baltic Offensive resulted in the expulsion of the German forces from Estonia, a large part of Latvia, and Lithuania.\n\nDuring the withdrawal from Estonia, the German command released thousands of native Estonian conscripts from military service. The Soviet command began conscripting Baltic natives as areas were brought under Soviet control. While some ended up serving on both sides, thousands joined the Forest Brothers partisan detachments to avoid conscription.\n\nArmy Group North land lines of communication were permanently severed from Army Group Centre and it was relegated to the Courland Pocket, an occupied Baltic seashore area in Latvia. On 25 January, Adolf Hitler renamed Army Group North the \"Courland\", implicitly realising that there was no possibility of restoring a new land corridor between Courland and East Prussia. The Red Army commenced the encirclement and reduction of the pocket, enabling the Soviets to focus on operations towards East Prussia. The Army Group Courland retained a possibility of being a major threat. Operations by the Red Army against the Courland Pocket continued until the surrender of Army Group Courland on 9 May 1945, when close to 200,000 Germans were taken prisoner there.\n\nThe lengthy German defence during the Battle of Narva denied the Soviets the use of Estonia as a favorable base for amphibious invasions and air attacks against Helsinki and other Finnish cities. Stavka's hopes of assaulting Finland from Estonia and forcing it into capitulation were diminished. Finnish Chief of Defence Carl Gustav Emil Mannerheim repeatedly reminded the German side that in the event their troops in Estonia retreated, Finland would be forced to make peace even on extremely unfavourable terms. Thus, the prolonged Battle of Narva helped Finland avoid a Soviet occupation, sustained its capacity for resistance and enabled them to enter negotiations for the Moscow Armistice on their own terms.\n\nThe lengthy German defence prevented a swift Soviet breakthrough into Estonia and gave the underground National Committee of the Republic of Estonia enough time to attempt to re-establish Estonian independence. On 1 August 1944, the national committee pronounced itself Estonia's highest authority and on 18 September 1944, acting head of state Uluots appointed a new government led by Otto Tief. Over the radio in English, the government declared its neutrality in the war. The government issued two editions of the Riigi Teataja (State Gazette) but did not have time to distribute them. On 21 September, the national forces seized the government buildings in Toompea, Tallinn and ordered the German forces to leave. The flag of Estonia was hoisted at the tower of Pikk Hermann, to be removed by the Soviets four days later. The Estonian Government in Exile served to carry the continuity of the Estonian state forward until 1992, when it handed its credentials over to the incoming President, Lennart Meri.\n\nThe delay of the Soviet advance allowed over 25,000 Estonians and 3,700 Swedes to flee to neutral Sweden and 6,000 Estonians to Finland. Thousands of refugees died on boats and ships sunk in the Baltic Sea. In September, 90,000 soldiers and 85,000 Estonian, Finnish and German refugees and Soviet prisoners of war were evacuated to Germany. The sole German cost of this evacuation was the loss of a steamboat. More German naval evacuations followed from Estonian ports, where up to 1,200 people were drowned in Soviet attacks.\n\nSoviet rule of Estonia was re-established by force, and sovietisation followed, mostly carried out in 1944–1950. The forced collectivisation of agriculture began in 1947 and was completed after the deportation of 22,500 Estonians in March 1949. All private farms were confiscated and farmers were made to join the collective farms. Besides the armed resistance of the Forest Brothers, a number of underground nationalist schoolchildren groups were active. Most of their members were sentenced to long terms of imprisonment. The punitive actions decreased rapidly after Stalin's death in 1953; from 1956 to 1958, many of the deportees and political prisoners were allowed to return to Estonia. Political arrests and numerous other crimes against humanity were committed throughout the occupation period until the late 1980s. Nevertheless, the attempt to integrate Estonian society into the Soviet system failed. Although the armed resistance was defeated, the population remained anti-Soviet. This helped the Estonians to organise a new resistance movement in the late 1980s, regain their independence in 1991, and then rapidly develop a modern society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932668", "title": "WJWJ-FM", "text": "WJWJ-FM\n\nWJWJ-FM (89.9 FM) is a non-commercial News/Talk radio station licensed to Beaufort, South Carolina. Its transmitter is located with co-owned WJWJ-TV near Green Pond, SC in Colleton County and is part of the statewide \"NPR News network\" from South Carolina Public Radio. It covers most of the southeastern part of the state, including Charleston. It also provides rimshot coverage of Savannah.\n\nThe station began operation in 1980. Along with the SCERN simulcast based in Columbia, WJWJ occasionally broke off to air local shows from SCETV's studios in Beaufort.\n\nIn 2001, WJWJ was the first SCERN station to switch to an all-news format as both WSVH in Savannah and WSCI in Charleston provided the entire WJWJ listening area with classical music. However, with the change in formats, all local programming ended, and WJWJ's entire schedule is now fed from Columbia. It is the only NPR news/talk station in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932673", "title": "Fatma Ekenoğlu", "text": "Fatma Ekenoğlu\n\nFatma Ekenoğlu (born in Paphos in 1956) is a Turkish Cypriot politician. She was the first female Speaker of the Republican Assembly of Northern Cyprus from 14 January 2004 to 1 May 2009. She is a member of the Republican Turkish Party. Pursuant to Article 105 of the Constitution of Northern Cyprus, she served as Acting president \"in the event of the President of the Republic being temporarily absent from his office\". Ekenoğlu studied at the Cerrahpaşa Faculty of Medicine at Istanbul University.\n"}
{"id": "1932677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932677", "title": "El Coyote (character)", "text": "El Coyote (character)\n\nEl Coyote (the Coyote or prairie wolf) is the name of a fictional character very similar to Zorro (El Zorro), the Fox, although acting several years later (when California had transformed to be a part of the United States' \"Wild West\"). He first appeared in a Spanish \"\" (\"Stories of the West\") Number 9 pulp novel in 1943, written by Carter Mulford, later J. Mallorquí one of several pseudonyms of the successful Spanish author José Mallorquí y Figuerola (1913-1972). The novel was issued by the Spanish publishing house . Mallorquí now started writing a series of extremely popular novels, with the character \"\" in the head role, for . Between September 1944 and late 1953 the hero appeared in a series of 192 pulp-like EL COYOTE novels, with several revival editions throughout the years. They covered 30 years of chronological adventures from 1851 (and earlier) until around 1876, or possibly later (the original Cliper novels were not published in strict chronological order). Cover illustrators were not always identical to inside illustrators.\nThe novels (a Cliper edition already in 1947) - and the comics - were also glued in nice collections and sold in hardbound \"limited bookform\" (Forum had one with all its novels, and also one with the comics).\n\n\nCalifornia was incorporated into the US in 1848 as a result of the Mexican–American War 1846–1848 (after some turbulent years as part of Mexico and even twice as a short-lived independent republic), and registered as the 31st State of the United States in 1850.\n\nCésar de Echagüe (the III – with Mexican and Spanish roots) was a wealthy, elegant Californio nobleman, resident at the large 40,000 hectare (100,000 acres) ranch, Rancho San Antonio, just north-east of Los Angeles. He had an affable, charming appearance – lazy, comfortable, cynical and sceptic, and with false superficiality. He was educated and refined, a master of expression, and a practical, pragmatic man. Behind his facade he doubled as El Coyote, a masked vigilante hero and defender of the weak – fighting for freedom, honesty and justice. Coyote protected the original Hispanics (and the native Indians) of California from the Anglo Americans, and certainly from all \"bad ones\". Mallorquí did address the Afro-American question only briefly.\n\nThe stories continued the mythical traditions of Robin Hood, Dick Turpin, and The Scarlet Pimpernel – published in 1905, which was the very first popular novel with the \"double identity\" plot. Dime novel detective Nick Carter debuted in 1886. Tarzan was introduced in 1912, and Zorro found its way to the public in 1919, but El Coyote became even bigger – in Spain. Among other early famous, often masked American novel and/or radio heroes, were The Shadow, debuting 1930 (and 1931), plus The Phantom Detective, Doc Savage, The Spider and Lone Ranger in 1933, and Green Hornet in 1936. Some of the very early comic strip superheroes (or costumed crime-fighters) were Buck Rogers introduced in 1928, Dick Tracy 1931, and Flash Gordon in 1934. The most famous comic book (or strip) hero is Superman originated in 1933 (and commercially published in 1938). In 1934 Mandrake debuted, and the Phantom comic strip (The Phantom) in 1936. Batman and the original Captain Marvel entered in 1939. Captain America and the originals of The Flash, Green Lantern and Daredevil made their debuts in 1940. Wonder Woman, Blackhawk and Green Arrow debuted in 1941, and in 1947 Black Canary entered the scene.\n\nCoyote wore a black (mostly illustrated as dark blue, also in the comics – and sometimes brown) Mexican, decorated charro costume. He had high black boots (mostly outside the trousers) and a decorated sombrero, a black shirt – neither blue nor red – although most drawings show a white shirt (on the Scandinan covers blue), with a black (sometimes shown as red or blue) silk scarf or a red tie. He also had a broad black silk belt (sometimes illustrated as a red silk one – although mostly as an American brown belt), plus two holstered revolvers hanging low on a \"double\" ammunition belt. Some illustrations show only one revolver with ammunition belt and holster – others two revolvers on one holster. He also had a knife – and a rifle, a lasso and a Mexican sarape on his horse – and he wore gloves. The mask covered more of his upper face than shown on most of the fine drawings by Francisco Batet (and especially by several others). The Scandinavian covers presented a relatively large mask (illustrated by Harald Damsleth). In at least one of the early pulps Mallorquí wrote he wore \"Mexican peasant clothes\" (black – shown brown on some of the very early illustrations by Batet). The Spanish (and Aztec) word \"coyote\" was also used describing a racial category. El Coyote had two \"marks\" – one was shooting at an ear lobe of his villains, one was a drawing of a wolf's head on messages.\n\nThe novel series mostly comprised the years from December 1851 (and with Cliper number 6 from early 1865) to around 1875. Published in Spain, they originally consisted of 120 volumes 1944–1951 – the last titled \"Alias el Coyote\" in March 1951. The novels were not always strictly chronological. One example was the 1851/1853 (extended, 6 pesetas) story \"El diablo, Murrieta y el Coyote\" (where César and Guadalupe in 1972 take us back to fascinating events happening in the two years of Coyote \"quasi-retirement\", with César marrying Leonor and César's father still alive), Cliper novel number 100 and its sequel. In these novels Joaquin Murrieta, who was a \"real life\" Sonora, Mexico - and later California - famous bandit, is presented in the Mallorqui way. The California Rangers killed him in 1853 in Fresno County, but in the novels here he marries César's cousin Maria Elena (and is not killed). The original novel number 115, \"El hogar de los valientes\", and its sequel, takes us back to around 1855, before Jr. was born. There was also the very late \"La gloria de don Goyo\" (which told a story of April 1865 – late civil war era soon after César's \"second arrival\" in Los Angeles, where the Bella Union and Fort Moore were two frequently featured establishments in the novels). A late original Cliper novel, the six-year-celebration novel \"La casa de los Valdez\" and its sequel, told a story César picked up in Spain in 1857 about César I (his grandfather arriving in California in 1767 – the story begins and ends in 1872 at home at the San Antonio ranch). Simultaneously published were 10 Numero Extra (1945–1946), including a reedited version of the original 1943 pulp \"El Coyote\" (issued as Edicion Cliper Extra #0 in 1945) and the Especial of 1946 noted below (no numbering at all). The Extras told stories of pre-1851, early (and also late) 1850s and mid/late 1860s. Later came 62 \"reformed\" Nuevo Coyote (still on Cliper 1951–1953) – the first published in mid 1951 (\"Vuelve el Coyote\") and telling later, new stories – some intervening in the old chronology (some relating to 1872) – and with a pocket size, turning from 19,7x14,7 cm and 64 pages to 15,5x10,7 cm and 128 pages. The last Nuevo Coyote was titled \"Los asesinos llegan a Monterrey\", aka El Coyote \"Los asesinos van a Monterrey\".\n\nThe early \"Coyote\" novels were published in 16 countries in nine different languages. Italy published all 192, often with the same covers as Cliper and with the later ones (with non-Cliper covers) illustrated by Emilio Uberti (and especially Sergio Tarquinio inside). Germany published 84 novels, mostly with Batet's original Cliper illustrations – including reeditions (with different publishers) and new illustrators. Finland had , mostly with Batet illustrations. The original editions in Norway, Denmark and Sweden (with no illustration inside) often had identical covers (special unique ones made for these three countries 18x12 cm). The illustrations on the Scandinavian editions, by Harald Damsleth, are by many ranked as the finest. Only one of the Cliper cover illustrations was \"recycled\" in Scandinavia – the original Cliper cover of \"Huracán sobre Monterrey\" was \"covered\" by Damsleth in the Swedish (and Norwegian) versions of \"Plomo en una estrella\", which actually was a circa 1874 story, featuring the father and his grown-up son in San Lorenzo Valley (fictional Farish City), not fitting chronologically with the other later Swedish novels. Brazil, often Batet and Bernal covers (but also several others), published all novels in different editions, except for the high-ranked (extended, 6 pesetas) Extra-Especial on the elder \"Don César de Echagüe\".\n\n\nAlthough the Extras, numbered 0-8, and the Extra-Especial (no number at all – 6 pesetas) on Ediciones Cliper – all issued during the very first years (1945–46) – did not have any of the other first 120 novels' issue numbers, they have later \"entered\" the 192 numbering – just like the \"Nuevo Coyote\" series (which was originally numbered 1-62 on Cliper).\n\nCésar was born in Los Angeles (originally called \"el Pueblo de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Ángeles\"), which he left around late 1843 for Mexico and later Havana (Cuba) to study and \"become a man\". He \"officially\" returned in December 1851, described in the very first novel, \"El Coyote\", although operating as El Coyote in California several times before that, secretly leaving Mexico during his years abroad.\n\nIn Mallorquí's first novel, \"El Coyote\", one can trace that César must have been born around 1827 (the novel says he was 25 by his arrival in Los Angeles in late 1851, probably via el Rio Porciuncúla. One can read about Coyote's debut in \"La primera aventura del Coyote\". an early Extra novel, where César was inspired by a masked female actress and by the Zorro legend when he started operating as El Coyote. Coyote later told his son, \"El Cuervo\", in the stories on César Jr's adventures of late 1972 (when Jr was around 17 years old), that \"El Coyote\" debuted even younger than his son, long before aged 20.\n\nCoyote's father, who had experienced the turbulent years of Spanish and Mexican California, was Don César de Echagüe (II), who found out Coyote's true identity just prior to his death soon after César's first marriage. César's sister Beatriz (aka Beatrice) was born in 1833 - she married Washington resident, political employee and member of the U.S. government, Edmond Greene (aka Edmonds or Edmons, nicknamed Edmondo), who spoke fluent Spanish. Edmond found out Coyote's true identity in late 1851 - and Beatriz probably a bit later. They settled in Washington in 1853 (although later often visiting California). César's first wife Leonor de Acevedo (aka Leonora/Leonore) was born around 1830 (on yet another big ranch nearby San Antonio - and was betrothed to César already as a child). She became aware of Coyote's double identity by the end of the very first written novel. They married in 1852 during an almost two years period of Coyote retirement. She died around 1856/57, when César Jr was born. Jr called himself El Cuervo (no mask), the Raven, from around late 1872 - although he later abandoned it. César (Coyote) left Los Angeles again directly after his wife's death (even travelling to Europe and Spain) for several years (handing over the child-care to maiden Guadalupe Martinez).\n\nCésar was abroad again (Europe this time) during 1857-early 1865. Long before his official return in the spring of 1865 César secretly worked as Coyote, and outside California as unmasked José Martinez, after only a few years abroad - one adventure was specifically dated 1859, \"La sombra del Coyote\" (with a preface of 1849). At least for a while during the civil war (1861–65) César secretly worked as a neutral Union (northern) Commander at a San Carlos, San Diego fortress under the alias of \"Delharty\" (shortly before his second return to L.A. in early 1865 - encouraged by Edmond Greene to return home), working to keep California out of the war, helping both northernness and southernness in \"El Capataz del Ocaso\" and its sequels (where César looks back from the mid 1870s to the last year of the war). César Jr was reported eight years of age in 1865. Guadalupe was nicknamed Lupe/Lupita (aka Guadelupe). She was the daughter of Julian (aka Julián) Martinez, Coyote's very first close allied (from 1851) and chief servant (and foreman) at César's father Don César's ranch. Julian died just prior to Guadalupe's marriage. Lupe was born in 1835 and married César around late 1870 - in \"El Diablo en Los Angeles\". She and Julian had known of César's double identity from very early on - Julian was told by Coyote (probably even before 1851 - and Lupe found out by \"accidental coincidence\" in 1853 - \"La vuelta del \"Coyote\"\"). César's and Lupe's child Leonorin was born in 1871 - and fosterchild Eduardito (Gómez de la Mata) that same year (in \"Rapto\"). Guadalupe later became de Torres (Julian's real name) and suddenly - in early/mid 1872 (\"El código del Coyote\" and its sequels) - was even much richer than César, inheriting a huge ranch (Rancho del Todo) in Coahuila in north Mexico, where she had to spend several months each year with her daughter (the formal heiress) to claim her rights. Around 1874 she gave birth to a son (\"Apostando su vida\", original novel N° 87).\n\nCoyote had some interesting early allies (friends). Among the first (besides Julian) were the Lugones brothers - los Lugones - Juan, Timoteo, Evilio, and Leocadio (originally four, but Leo died early) and the old Indian woman Adelia (aka Adela). They helped Coyote from the very first beginning through all the years, and did not know about Coyote's real identity. Two other characters, though, knew - Ricardo Yesares and Matias Alberes. Yesares (from Paso Robles in San Luis Obispo), Coyote's sub/double throughout the years from 1865 (who Coyote had saved from \"unfair\" hanging that year) debuted in \"El otro \"Coyote\"\", ediciones Cliper number 6 - the first adventure of Coyote's \"second arrival\". Ricardo was born around 1839/40, and married Serena Morales in Los Angeles in 1866, where he had become the owner of Posada (hotel) del Rey Don Carlos III (Coyote's new and \"secret headquarters\"). Coyote's closest allied from 1865 was César's servant (and \"bodyguard\"), the dumb Indian Matias Alberes (who even sometimes acted as a third Coyote, and was a Coyote allied at least up to around 1874 - he even was featured with Pedro Bienvenido in \"Los apuros de don César\" and later novels). Gunman Mario Lujan (who initially was an enemy of Coyote in \"Al servicio del Coyote\") helped him several times in later novels (and ended up as foreman at the San Antonio ranch). César Jr (the heir of the Acevedo farm) had two good friends in Joao da Silveira and César de Guzmán. He met them in around late 1872 (\"El Cuervo en la pradera\"). The skilled Indian Pedro Bienvenido (who was some kind of mind-reader) became an important allied of Coyote and his son César de Echagüe y Acevedo soon after (debuting in \"La reina del valle\" and its earlier and later sequels, also featuring Analupe de Monreal).\n\nSeveral of the novels' characters appeared throughout the series. Among them, Fray Jacinto at the mission station San Juan de Capistrano, who knew of Coyote's identity (and tried to get César to marry Lupe - he was the only one knowing Julian's true background). He was murdered in late 1872. Later there was Fray Anselmo at San Benito de Palermo. Don Goyo Paz fought in the Mexican–American War and was a ranchowner not too far from San Antonio - los Lugones were hired bodyguards at Don Goyo's, whose son Gregorio Paz was to marry Guadalupe, but \"El Diablo\" forced César to marry her instead. There were solicitor José Covarrubias, doctor Garcia Oviedo, and Los Angeles sheriff Teodomiro Mateos - sheriff twice (1860s and 1870s), and in later years one of César's best friends. Former civil war spy Ginevra St. Clair appeared in 1869 (\"El exterminio de la Calavera\", where César fell in love with her, but she died). There also were three more adventurers who appeared in several novels - Chris Wardell, \"El Diablo\" (Juan Nepomuceno Mariñas), and \"Princess Irina\" (Odile Garson - she debuted in \"Otra lucha\" in early 1870, and soon tried to charm César, but ended up as the partner of \"El Diablo\" after César's marriage). All three started out as some kind of enemies of Coyote. Anita was Guadalupe's maiden, and San Francisco chief vigilante Captain Farrell became a good friend of Coyote. Another noble ranchowner was Don Rómulo Hidalgo (with his son Justo - his father was murdered around 1871). In the novels there were of course also a lot of villains - Coyote's worst and toughest enemy probably was Robert Toombs (featured in \"Guadalupe\" and its sequels around 1872). Several novels were adventures in sequels (one special long one was Coyote's adventures with Analupe De Monreal around 1873).\n\n\n\"El Coyote\" had a comic series adaptation in Spain, Cliper comics - 113 in the first series by Jose Mallorquí and Francisco Batet, from 1947 up into 1953, with a total of 189 adventures up to 1955, plus 14 more (2a Epoca) later on - with a late revival 1983 on Comics Forum, and even later Batet's originals on Agualarga hard-bound. There was also a long-running Spanish radio series on SER with many episodes, featuring Vicente Mullor. Cliper also published 490 Coyote picture cards in 1946.\n\nThe links below are divided into three sections.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932683", "title": "Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe", "text": "Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe\n\nJean de Sainte-Colombe (ca. 1640–1700) was a French composer and violist. Sainte-Colombe was a celebrated master of the viola da gamba. He is credited (by Jean Rousseau in his \"Traité de la viole\" (1687)) with adding the seventh string (AA) on the bass viol.\n\nFew details of his life are known; we know neither the names of his parents nor his precise dates of birth and death. Recent research has revealed that his first name was Jean (other sources mention the name of Augustine of Autrecourt, Sieur de Sainte-Colombe) and also that he had as teacher the theorbo and viola player Nicolas Hotman.\n\nSainte-Colombe performed publicly in the Parisian Salons, as did most of his colleagues and Parisian music masters such as Le Sieur Dubuisson. According to Titon du Tillet, he often performed in consort with his two daughters, and often with his own students, as attested by the copyist who wrote out his pieces for two viols as well as the solo-viol Tournus Manuscript. Sainte-Colombe's most notable student was Marin Marais, who wrote \"Tombeau pour Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe\", in 1701, as a memorial to his instructor. Sainte-Colombe's students also included the Sieur de Danoville, Jean Desfontaines, Pierre Méliton, Jean Rousseau and two women known only as Mlle Rougevillle and Mlle Vignon.\n\nAmongst the extant works of Sainte-Colombe are sixty-seven \"Concerts à deux violes esgales\", and over 170 pieces for solo seven-string viol, making him perhaps the most prolific French viol composer before Marin Marais.\n\nIt is speculated by various scholars that Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe was of Lyonnais or Burgundian petty nobility; and also the selfsame 'Jean de Sainte-Colombe' noted as the father of 'Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe \"le fils\".' This assumption was erroneous, according to subsequent research in Paris by American bass viol player and musicologist Jonathan Dunford. Dunford suggests he was probably from the Pau area in southernmost France and a Protestant, that his first name was \"Jean\" and that he had two daughters named Brigide and Françoise.\n\nIn 1991, Pascal Quignard published a novel giving a conjectural picture of the relationship between M. de Sainte-Colombe and Marin Marais, entitled \"Tous les matins du monde\" (All the Mornings of the World). Alain Corneau directed a film based on it, with Jean-Pierre Marielle as Sainte-Colombe, Guillaume Depardieu as the young and Gérard Depardieu as the aged Marin Marais. The soundtrack of the film was realized by Jordi Savall.\n\nA quotation from a composition of Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe is used in Carlo Forlivesi's \"Requiem\" (1999).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932690", "title": "Honey Pie", "text": "Honey Pie\n\n\"Honey Pie\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles, from their 1968 eponymous double album \"The Beatles\" (also known as \"the White Album\"). The song was written entirely by Paul McCartney and credited to the Lennon–McCartney partnership.\n\nThe song is a direct homage to the British music hall style. It concerns a famed actress, called only by the term of endearment \"Honey Pie\", who becomes famous in the United States, and her old lover, who wishes for her to rejoin him in England. The premise – a humble admirer yearning for the return of his lover – is not unlike a typical music hall plot. In order to establish an appropriate, old-timey sound, 'crackles' were added to the third line, \"Now she's hit the big time!\", from a 78 rpm record.\n\nRecording began on 1 October 1968, at Trident Studios in London's Wardour Street. Only one take was recorded on the first day, although it is likely that a number of rehearsal attempts had previously been recorded and wiped. The next day, McCartney taped his lead vocals, and a lead guitar part was added. According to George Harrison, John Lennon played the guitar solo. The song's woodwind arrangement by George Martin was recorded two days later on 4 October. McCartney added a final vocal overdub at the end of the session.\n\nBefore recording sessions for the \"White Album\" began, the Beatles recorded a demo of \"Honey Pie\" at George Harrison's Esher home studios. This version contained slightly different lyrics and lacked the introduction of the final version. The demo was later released in 1996 on \"Anthology 3\" and the 2018 Super Deluxe edition of the \"White Album\".\n\nThe song has been covered by Alan Klein (1969), Barbra Streisand, the King's Singers, Don Partridge, the Golden Gate Quartet, Tuck & Patti, and John Pizzarelli, among others. In the 1978 film \"Sextette\", Dom DeLuise performed the song. Phish covered the song, with many other \"White Album\" songs, on the album \"Live Phish Volume 13\".\n\nIn 2016 Wesley Schultz sang it in \"Beat Bugs\" episode 12b.\n\nThe Beatles\n\nAdditional musicians\n"}
{"id": "1932699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932699", "title": "TBWA Worldwide", "text": "TBWA Worldwide\n\nTBWA Worldwide is an international advertising agency whose main headquarters are in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, United States. \n\nSince 1993, the agency has become a unit of Omnicom Group, the world's second largest advertising agency holding company. \n\nTBWA was founded in 1970 in Paris, France, by William G. Tragos (American, Management), Claude Bonnange (French, Marketing), Uli Wiesendanger (Swiss, Creation), and Paolo Ajroldi (Italian, Client Services). The first letter of each founder's name provided the initials for the new organization. They were purchased by the Omnicom Group in 1993.\n\nIn the mid-1990s TBWA began expanding globally spreading rapidly. It began acquiring global accounts such as Master Foods that helped strengthen the breadth and depth of its offering, so much so that in 2004 it was named by Advertising Age as Global Agency Network of the Year. \n\nIn 2010, it was named by Advertising Agency as one of the top ten agencies of the Decade. \n\nIn 2018 TBWA\\Worldwide has been named Adweek's 2018 Global Agency of the Year. TBWA\\Worldwide was added to Fast Company's list of the World's Most Innovative Companies in 2019.\n\nIn the United States, TBWA operates through TBWA\\Chiat\\Day, with offices in Los Angeles, New York City and Nashville. In other parts of the world the company also operates under a mixed brand name such as TBWA\\Hunt\\Lascaris, a highly awarded agency based in South Africa, TBWA\\CONCEPT UNIT, West Africa's most awarded creative agency based in Nigeria, TBWA\\HAKUHODO, the second largest creative agency in Japan after Dentsu, and TBWA\\RAAD an emerging operation that spans the Middle East and North Africa. The Asia Pacific regional operations was split into three regions – Asia, Oceania and Greater China – and headquarters moved from Hong Kong to Singapore.\n\nWithin the Omnicom Group of Companies, TBWA is generally partnered with OMD and PHD for Media solutions, TEQUILA for below the line marketing communications, Ketchum and Gavin Anderson for Public Relations and Investor Relations, and Agency.com for interactive. That said, in specific markets it partners or works with other Diversified Agency Services (DAS) agencies within Omnicom's portfolio.\n\nTBWA has a philosophy called the disruption and Media Arts created by Jean-Marie Dru when he was in BDDP (French advertising agency now called BDDP&Fils) the May 1st of 1992.\n\nThis philosophy is outlined in several books by Jean-Marie Dru, such as \"\"Disruption\", \"How Disruption Brought Order\"\", and \"\"Beyond Disruption: Changing the Rules in the Marketplace\".\"\n\nIn April 2008, Teran/TBWA of Mexico released a controversial advertisement for Absolut Vodka depicting a tongue-in-cheek fictional \"perfect world\" dubbed \"absolut world\" depicting the larger Mexico as it existed before the 19th century Mexican–American War, which includes areas now part of the United States (including California and Texas). Some time after the billboard was taken down in Mexico City, a photo of it surfaced on a right-wing blog in the US, sparking a short uproar among elements of the media.\n\n\"Pincha la Rueda de Hamilton\" (\"Burst Hamilton's tires\"), a Spanish website run by TBWA, was set up in October 2008. It hosted a game where users could leave objects on a race track to stop the then Formula One leader, Lewis Hamilton, from winning the last grand prix of the year in Brazil. It became controversial when users began to leave racist comments (such as \"half-breed\") aimed at the mixed-race Hamilton and was shut down in November. The FIA, the sport's governing body, and Hamilton's team, McLaren, condemned the comments as \"abusive and hateful\".\n\nIn 1997 TBWA developed the Chihuahua campaign for Taco Bell. Two Michigan men, represented by Warner Norcross & Judd LLP, who had earlier pitched the concept to Taco Bell sued and in 2003 a jury awarded them US$30 million in damages and a judge tacked on US$12 million in interest. Taco Bell in turn sued TBWA saying it should have been aware of the conflicts. In 2009 a three-judge federal appeals panel ruled against Taco Bell.\n\nIn December 2009, TBWA developed the campaign for Häagen-Dazs Ice Cream in India. Several banners were put up that said, \"Exclusive Preview for International Travelers - Access restricted only to holders of international passports\". Instead of portraying exclusivity, this was perceived negatively due to India's long history of colonialism where access to certain areas was restricted to the white colonizers from Britain. Häagen-Dazs cut ties with TBWA after the negative publicity generated due to that incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932700", "title": "Methods of coin debasement", "text": "Methods of coin debasement\n\nCoin debasement is the act of decreasing the amount of precious metal in a coin, while continuing to circulate it at face value. This was frequently done by governments in order to inflate the amount of currency in circulation; typically, some of the precious metal was replaced by a cheaper metal when the coin was minted. But when done by an individual, precious metal was physically removed from the coin, which could then be passed on at the original face value, leaving the debaser with a profit. Coin debasement was effected by several methods, including clipping (shaving metal from the coin's circumference) and sweating (shaking the coins in a bag and collecting the dust worn off).\n\nUntil the mid-20th century, coins were often made of silver or gold, which were quite soft and prone to wear. This meant coins naturally got lighter (and thus less valuable) as they aged, so coins that had lost a small amount of bullion would go unnoticed. Modern coins are made of hard, cheap metals such as steel, copper, or a copper-nickel alloy, reducing wear and making it difficult and unprofitable to debase them.\n\nClipping is the act of shaving off a small portion of a precious metal coin for profit. Over time, the precious metal clippings could be saved up and melted into bullion or used to make new coins.\n\nCoin clipping was usually considered by the law to be of a similar magnitude to counterfeiting, and was occasionally punished by death, a fate which befell English counterfeiters Thomas Rogers and Anne Rogers in 1690. Even among pirates, clipping coins was considered a serious breach of trust. Henry Avery's pirate fleet attacked the treasure ship \"Gunsway\" in 1695 and netted one of the largest pirate captures in history. When fellow pirate William May's crew were found to have traded clipped coins to Avery's crew, Avery took back nearly all the treasure he'd shared with May and his men and sent them away.\n\nCoin clipping is why many coins have the rim of the coin marked with stripes (\"milling\" or \"reeding\"), text (\"engraving\") or some other pattern that would be destroyed if the coin were clipped. This practice is attributed to Isaac Newton, who was appointed Master of the Mint of Great Britain in 1699. Although the metal used in most modern fiat coins has insignificant intrinsic value, modern milling can be a deterrent to counterfeiting, an aid to the blind to distinguish different denominations, or purely decorative.\n\nIn the process of sweating, coins were placed in a bag and shaken. The bits of metal that had worn off the coins were recovered from the bottom of the bag. Sweating tended to wear the coin in a more natural way than clipping, and so was harder to detect.\n\nIf the coin was large, a hole could be punched out of the middle, and the face of the coin hammered to close up the hole. Or the coin could be sawed in half, and a plug of metal extracted from the interior. After filling the hole with a cheaper metal, the two halves would be welded back together again. Verbal references to plugged quarters and plugged dimes eventually yielded the common phrase \"\"not worth a plugged nickel\"\" (or 'plug nickel', or even a plugged cent), emphasizing the worthlessness of such a tampered coin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932701", "title": "Clipping (computer graphics)", "text": "Clipping (computer graphics)\n\nClipping, in the context of computer graphics, is a method to selectively enable or disable rendering operations within a defined region of interest. Mathematically, clipping can be described using the terminology of constructive geometry. A rendering algorithm only draws pixels in the intersection between the clip region and the scene model. Lines and surfaces outside the view volume (aka. frustum) are removed.\n\nClip regions are commonly specified to improve render performance. A well-chosen clip allows the renderer to save time and energy by skipping calculations related to pixels that the user cannot see. Pixels that will be drawn are said to be within the clip region. Pixels that will not be drawn are outside the clip region. More informally, pixels that will not be drawn are said to be \"clipped.\"\n\nIn two-dimensional graphics, a clip region may be defined so that pixels are only drawn within the boundaries of a window or frame. Clip regions can also be used to selectively control pixel rendering for aesthetic or artistic purposes. In many implementations, the final clip region is the composite (or intersection) of one or more application-defined shapes, as well as any system hardware constraints\n\nIn one example application, consider an image editing program. A user application may render the image into a viewport. As the user zooms and scrolls to view a smaller portion of the image, the application can set a clip boundary so that pixels outside the viewport are not rendered. In addition, GUI widgets, overlays, and other windows or frames may obscure some pixels from the original image. In this sense, the clip region is the composite of the application-defined \"user clip\" and the \"device clip\" enforced by the system's software and hardware implementation. Application software can take advantage of this clip information to save computation time, energy, and memory, avoiding work related to pixels that aren't visible.\n\nIn three-dimensional graphics, the terminology of clipping can be used to describe many related features. Typically, \"clipping\" refers to operations in the plane that work with rectangular shapes, and \"culling\" refers to more general methods to selectively process scene model elements. This terminology is not rigid, and exact usage varies among many sources.\n\nScene model elements include geometric primitives: points or vertices; line segments or edges; polygons or faces; and more abstract model objects such as curves, splines, surfaces, and even text. In complicated scene models, individual elements may be selectively disabled (clipped) for reasons including visibility within the viewport (frustum culling); orientation (backface culling), obscuration by other scene or model elements (occlusion culling, depth- or \"z\" clipping). Sophisticated algorithms exist to efficiently detect and perform such clipping. Many optimized clipping methods rely on specific hardware acceleration logic provided by a graphics processing unit (GPU).\n\nThe concept of clipping can be extended to higher dimensionality using methods of abstract algebraic geometry.\n\nBeyond projection of vertices & 2D clipping, near clipping is required to correctly rasterise 3D primitives; this is because vertices may have been projected behind the eye. Near clipping ensures that all the vertices used have valid 2D coordinates. Together with far-clipping it also helps prevent overflow of depth-buffer values. Some early texture mapping hardware (using forward texture mapping) in video games suffered from complications associated with near clipping and UV coordinates.\n\nIn 3D computer graphics, \"Z\" often refers to the depth axis in the system of coordinates centered at the viewport origin: \"Z\" is used interchangeably with \"depth\", and conceptually corresponds to the distance \"into the virtual screen.\" In this coordinate system, \"X\" and \"Y\" therefore refer to a conventional cartesian coordinate system laid out on the user's screen or viewport. This viewport is defined by the geometry of the viewing frustum, and parameterizes the field of view.\n\nZ-clipping, or depth clipping, refers to techniques that selectively render certain scene objects based on their depth relative to the screen. Most graphics toolkits allow the programmer to specify a \"near\" and \"far\" clip depth, and only portions of objects between those two planes are displayed. A creative application programmer can use this method to render visualizations of the interior of a 3D object in the scene. For example, a medical imaging application could use this technique to render the organs inside a human body. A video game programmer can use clipping information to accelerate game logic. For example, a tall wall or building that occludes other game entities can save GPU time that would otherwise be spent transforming and texturing items in the rear areas of the scene; and a tightly integrated software program can use this same information to save CPU time by optimizing out game logic for objects that aren't seen by the player.\n\nGood clipping strategy is important in the development of video games in order to maximize the game's frame rate and visual quality. Despite GPU chips that are faster every year, it remains computationally expensive to transform, texture, and shade polygons, especially with the multiple texture and shading passes common today. Hence, game developers must live within a certain \"budget\" of polygons that can be drawn each video frame.\n\nTo maximize the game's visual quality, developers prefer to let aesthetic choices, rather than hardware limitation, dictate the polygon budget. Optimizations that save performance therefore or take advantage of graphics pipeline acceleration improve the player's experience.\n\nClipping optimization can speed up the rendering of the current scene, economizing the use of renderer time and memory within the hardware's capability. Programmers often devise clever heuristics to speed up the clipper, as it is sometimes computationally prohibitive to use line casting or ray tracing to determine with 100% accuracy which polygons are not within the camera's field of view. Spatially aware data structures, such as octrees, R* trees, and bounding volume hierarchies can be used to partition scenes into rendered and non-rendered areas (allowing the renderer to reject or accept entire tree nodes where appropriate).\n\nOcclusion optimizations based on viewpoint geometry may introduce artifacts if the scene contains reflective surfaces. A common technique, reflection mapping, can optionally use existing occlusion estimates from the viewpoint of the main view frustum; or, if performance allows, a new occlusion map can be computed from a separate camera position.\n\nFor historical reasons, some video games used collision detection optimizations with identical logic and hardware acceleration as the occlusion test. As a result, non-specialists have incorrectly used the term \"clip\" (and its antonym \"noclipping\") to refer to collision detection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932702", "title": "Clipping (gardening)", "text": "Clipping (gardening)\n\nIn gardening, clipping is equivalent to pruning, the practice of removing diseases, over mature or otherwise unwanted portions from a plant. Clipping usually involves much less removal than pruning, and is used more for herbaceous (all-green) plants than for woody ones.\n"}
{"id": "1932703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932703", "title": "Clipping (publications)", "text": "Clipping (publications)\n\nClipping is the cutting-out of articles from a paper publication. Newspaper clippings are often used when people have to write a report or make a presentation on current events for school. Clippings may also be kept by adults for future reference, or for sentimental reasons such as an article on a history-making event. One service of Media monitoring services, which monitor the media exposure of a client, is to collect clippings referring to a client.\n\nClipping can also be used for artistic purposes as in collage. Picasso's \"Glass and Bottle of Suze\" is an example of this technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932704", "title": "Battle of Tannenberg Line", "text": "Battle of Tannenberg Line\n\n\"This is a sub-article to Battle of Narva (1944).\"\n\nThe Battle of Tannenberg Line (; ) or the Battle of the Blue Hills () was a military engagement between the German Army Detachment Narwa and the Soviet Leningrad Front. They fought for the strategically important Narva Isthmus from 25 July–10 August 1944. The battle was fought on the Eastern Front during World War II. The strategic aim of the Soviet Estonian Operation was to reoccupy Estonia as a favorable base for the invasions of Finland and East Prussia. Waffen-SS forces included 24 volunteer infantry battalions from the SS Division Nordland, the SS Division Langemarck, the SS Division Nederland, and the Walloon Legion. Roughly half of the infantry consisted of the personnel of the 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian) motivated to regain Estonian independence rather than support Nazi power. The German force of 22,250 men held off 136,830 Soviet troops. As the Soviet forces were constantly reinforced, the casualties were 170,000 dead and wounded, and 157–164 tanks.\nAfter defending the Narva bridgehead for six months, the German forces fell back to the Tannenberg Line in the hills of \"Sinimäed\" () on 26 July 1944. The three hills run east to west. The eastern hill was known to Estonians as the Lastekodumägi (Orphanage Hill; Kinderheimhöhe in German). The central was the Grenaderimägi (Grenadier Hill; Grenadierhöhe) and the westernmost was the Tornimägi (Tower Hill, also known in German as or 69.9 or Liebhöhe (Love Hill)). The heights have steep slopes and rise 20–50 m above the surrounding land.\n\nThe formations of \"Gruppenführer\" Felix Steiner's III SS Panzer Corps halted their withdrawal and moved into defensive positions on the hills. The 4th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Brigade Nederland started digging in on the left (north) flank of the Tannenberg Line, units of the 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian) in the centre, and the 11th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Division Nordland on the right (south) flank. Another front section manned by the East Prussians of the 11th Infantry Division was situated a few kilometres further south, against the 8th Army in the \"Krivasoo\" bridgehead.\n\nThe Soviet Marshal Leonid Govorov considered the Tannenberg Line as the key position of Army Group North and concentrated the best forces of the Leningrad Front. Additional 122nd, 124th Rifle Corps and divisions from 117th Rifle Corps were subordinated to Gen. Ivan Fedyuninsky, commanding the 2nd Shock Army. The goal set by the War Council of the 2nd Shock Army was to break through the defense line of the III SS Panzer Corps at the Orphanage Hill, force their way to the town of Jõhvi in the west and reach the Kunda River by 1 August. To accomplish this, Govorov was ordered to destroy communications behind the German forces and conduct air assaults on the railway stations of Jõhvi and Tapa on 26 July.\n\nThere is no complete overview of the order of the Soviet forces or the detachment sizes in the Battle of Tannenberg Line. For the attack on 29 July, Govorov concentrated all of the capable Soviet units, consisting of 11 divisions and six tank regiments. The Soviet units that had suffered losses were brought up to strength with fresh manpower. The delivery of Soviet heavy artillery complimented the nine divisions of the 109th, the 117th and the 122nd Rifle Corps. The 109th and 117th Corps were concentrated close to the \"Sinimäed\", while the 122nd Rifle Corps was sent to the southern section, near the church of Vaivara Parish. The positions of the 11th Infantry Division were mainly attacked by the 35,000-strong 8th Army with their 112th Rifle Corps, two fresh tank regiments and 1,680 assault guns, deployed in nine artillery regiments and 150 armored vehicles. The armored forces included the brand-new IS-2 tanks with extra armor and a 122mm gun. The weakness of the tank was its limited ammunition capacity (only 28 rounds) and long reloading time for its main gun. The forces were supported by the 576-strong 13th Air Army. The Soviet order of battle (available data as of 28 July 1944):\n\nLeningrad Front – Marshal Leonid Govorov\n\nTotal: 26,850 infantrymen, 458 pieces of artillery, 112 tanks\n\nTotal: 28,000 infantrymen, 518 pieces of artillery, 174 tanks and 44 self-propelled guns\n\nSeparate Corps and Divisions (possibly subordinated to one the above-mentioned Armies):\n\nAgainst the Soviet forces, a few tired German regiments without any reserve troops stood at their positions, battered by the Soviet artillery. The commander of the Army Detachment \"Narwa\", \"General der Infanterie\" Anton Grasser, assessed the German capacity as insufficient against the Soviet attack. While sufficient in ammunition and machine-guns, the combat morale of the Germanic volunteers was under heavy pressure while the spirit of some Estonian troops had already been severely damaged, in Grasser's opinion. However, the following combat proved the opposite. The small number of German Junkers Ju 87 dive bombers and shortage of aircraft fuel gave the Soviets massive air superiority. Grasser's conclusion was short:\n\nLeaving diplomatic formulation aside, Grasser announced that without immediate reinforcements, the Soviets would inevitably break through the Tannenberg Line on 29 June. Such reinforcements were beyond the capacities of Army Group North. The commander of the Army Group, Ferdinand Schörner, had repeatedly called Adolf Hitler's attention to the fact that virtually no division consisting of Germans was left at the Tannenberg Line, which was threatening to collapse. These calls had no effect, as Hitler's response remained to stand or die. The German order of battle (as of 28 July 1944) was:\n\nArmy Detachment Narwa – General of the Infantry Anton Grasser\nSeparate detachments:\n\nTotal: 22,250 troops deployed in 25 Estonian and 24 German, Dutch, Danish, Flemish, Italian, Norwegian and Walloon battalions\n\nOn 26 July, pursuing the withdrawing Germans, the Soviet attack fell onto the Tannenberg Line before the vastly outnumbered Army Detachment Narwa had dug in. The Soviet Air Force and artillery covered the German positions with bombs and shells, destroying most of the forest on the hills. The Soviet 201st and 256th Rifle Divisions supported by the 98th Tank Regiment assaulted the positions of the SS Division Nordland, seizing the eastern side of the Orphanage Hill.\n\nIn the morning of 27 July the Soviet forces opened up another powerful artillery barrage on the \"Sinimäed\". Anticipating an infantry attack, Steiner concentrated his few working armored vehicles, consisting of seven tanks. Units of the Nordland Division were placed between the two hills and the defense was completed by the Anti-Tank Company, 1st Estonian behind Nordland.\n\nUnder Soviet pressure the German defense threatened to collapse. On 27 July Schörner arrived at the \"Sinimäed\". He ordered an immediate recapture of the Orphanage Hill, demanding fanatical resistance from the soldiers. A meeting convened by von Scholz laid the tactics for the implementation of the orders. Immediately after the meeting, however, von Scholz was killed by a shrapnel splinter in front of the headquarters.\n\nFor the next day the 2nd Shock Army was reinforced with the 31st and the 82nd Tank Regiments, three howitzer brigades and nine heavy artillery regiments.\n\nIn the evening of 28 July German forces attempted to regain the Orphanage Hill again. Using the tactics of \"rolling\" small units into the Soviet positions, the troops seized the trenches on the slope of the feature. When a Soviet tank squadron arrived, the German attack collapsed. At a point occupied by the German 11th Infantry Division near the borough of Sirgala in the south, the Soviet tanks aimed to break through. Steiner ordered a withdrawal to a new defensive line at the Grenadier Hill. The order did not reach a significant part of the German forces, which remained in their positions at the Orphanage Hill. Anticipating a major attack, Steiner ordered the heavy weapons of the SS-Panzergrenadier Regiment Norge and the Danmark Regiment to be pulled together into two shock units. By the night of 28 July the battle had subsided.\n\nThe morning of 29 July began with preparatory artillery fire of 25,000 shells fired by the Soviets. The bombardment covered the Tannenberg Line in a dust cloud. The forest on the \"Sinimäed\" Hills was entirely destroyed, with the trees cut down to a height of 2–3 metres. While having a great psychological effect, the \"\"Katyusha\"s\" or so-called \"Stalin organs\" were inaccurate, causing little damage to the well-dug-in German troops. The 70–80 German \"Nebelwerfers\" answered. This was followed by Soviet bombers trying to hit the last of the German troops, ducking down in their trenches. Dressed in camouflage uniforms, they remained unseen by the Soviet pilots.\n\nThe attack of 6,000 Soviet infantry began at 09:00, supported by a regiment of nearly 100 tanks (most of them of the heavy IS-2 variety). They used their 122 mm guns to fire directly at the strongpoints showing any signs of life and destroyed the remaining bunkers. The remnants of the German advance guard were destroyed. The platoon commanded by Lt. Lapshin broke through to the top of the Grenadier Hill. Special courage was shown by Sgt. Efendiyev, who destroyed a German strongpoint on the hill. The \"Komsomol\" organiser, V.I. Lavreshin of the 937th Rifle Regiment, who had been marching ahead of his troops with a red flag in his hands, erected it at the summit.\n\nThe principle of the Soviet attack in the \"Sinimäed\" was an overwhelming frontal shock, with only a few of the attackers presumed to have reached the target. With artillery fire preventing reinforcements being sent in from the German rear, the Soviet 8th Army went on the attack and drove a wedge into the north flank of the 11th Infantry Division. The Soviet main tactical goal, the Grenadier Hill, was to be assaulted by the 6,000 troops of the 109th Rifle Corps. The 109th Rifle Division attacked Nederland, which was covering the hill from the north. The 120th Rifle Division hit the Grenadier Hill from the east. The 72nd Rifle Division assaulted the II Battalion, 3rd Estonian Regiment, which was defending the northern flank. The 117th Rifle Corps stood ready to break through the last of the German defenses. The Orphanage Hill fell to the Soviets with the 191st Rifle Regiment at the head of the attack. This unit suffered great casualties from the fire of the last defenders who in turn were either killed or forced to the Grenadier Hill. With the seizure of the Orphanage Hill, the Soviet 201st and the 256th Rifle Divisions were exhausted, as the 109th Rifle Division continued to press towards the Grenadier Hill alone. The defenders were commanded by Josef Bachmeier, the head of the II Battalion, Norge. The 1st and 2nd Battalions, 3rd Estonian subordinated to Bachmeier had 20 to 30 men each. For the defense of the Grenadier Hill, every available Estonian was sent into battle, including communications personnel. The central command post was destroyed by Soviet fire while the Germans, Flemish, Norwegians and Estonians escaped destruction by lying down in their bunkers. Behind them at the summit of the Grenadier Hill stood Nederland. The gaps created in the attacking infantry and tank line by the German artillery did not stop the Soviet advance.\n\nThe Soviet tanks besieged the Grenadier Hill and kept circling it, all the while firing away at the defenders. Nevertheless, they could not capture the summit due to heavy casualties caused by the German anti-tank guns and the anti-aircraft guns pointing their barrels down the slope. Other Soviet tanks reached the westernmost hill Tower Hill. The defenders in their bunkers, which were poorly fortified from the north and the flanks, were destroyed. Among the Soviet tank commanders, starshina S.F. Smirnov destroyed five German strongpoints. One of the tanks reached the community center of the municipality of Vaivara, blasting a hole in the wall. This remained the westernmost point the Soviet armed forces reached in Northeast Estonia until late September 1944.\n\nBy noon on 29 July Soviet forces had almost seized control of the Tannenberg Line. German units counterattacked against the Soviets besieging the Tower Hill; the second secured the Narva–Tallinn Highway in the west and the third unit counterattacked between the Grenadier Hill and the railway a few kilometers to the south. After the counterattack, only one German Panther tank remained unscathed.\n\nAfter the German counterattack the tactical situation at the Tannenberg Line remained unclear. The remains of the 2nd Battalion Norge at the Grenadier Hill assaulted the Soviets. The latter suffered heavy losses but regrouped and cut the Norwegians off at the east side of the hill. On the western terrace of the Grenadier Hill, \"Kampfgruppe\" Bachmeier and the 3rd Battalion, 3rd Estonian kept resisting. The Soviets started searching the bunkers for documents and prisoners. Steiner ordered an air assault using dive bombers from Tallinn Airport. The Soviets had anticipated the attack and had moved their self-propelled anti-aircraft units to the Orphanage Hill. They shot down several German bombers and afterwards turned their fire on the German infantry.\n\nSteiner had one more battalion to spare – the 1st Battalion, Waffen Grenadier Regiment 45 Estland (1st Estonian) which had been spared from the previous counterattacks because of the scarcity of able-bodied men. \"Sturmbannführer\" Paul Maitla requested reinforcements from the men in the field hospital. Twenty less injured men responded, joining the remains of the other destroyed units, including a unit of the \"Kriegsmarine\" (navy), and supported by the single remaining Panther tank. The counterattack started from the parish cemetery south of the Tower Hill, with the left flank of the assault clearing the hill of the Soviets. The attack continued towards the summit under heavy Soviet artillery and bomber attack, getting into close combat in the Soviet positions. The small German grenadier units were moved into the trenches. Running out of ammunition, the German troops used Soviet grenades and automatic weapons taken from the fallen. According to some veterans, it appeared that low-flying Soviet bombers were attempting to hit every individual German soldier jumping between craters, from time to time getting buried under the soil by the explosions of Soviet shells. The Soviets were forced to retreat from the Grenadier Hill.\n\nIn the afternoon of 29 July the Soviet forces made eight attempts at regaining control of the Grenadier Hill. The last of the German reserves were sent into the battle, including the supply troops. The two assaults by Maitla's improvised platoon at the Orphanage Hill forced the Soviets to refrain from further attacks and gave the Germans time to regroup.\n\nReluctant to admit the catastrophe in his report to the Soviet High Command on 30 July, the Political Commissar of the Soviet 2nd Army falsely promised that the Grenadier Hill was still in the possession of the Soviet 109th Rifle Corps. As justification for the failure to break through the German defenses, the report cited the weak cooperation between the artillery and the infantry. The report also mentioned the poorly coordinated action of the armored units, driving to the minefields, which were uncleared by the sapper units. The commissar made serious charges against the commanders of the units and claimed in his report that they were very drunk while attempting to command the attacks.\n\nOn 30 July the battle continued in similar fashion. Soviet artillery increased the intensity of its fire to 30,000 shells, the German artillery answered with 10,000 rounds of its own. The subsequent attack by Soviet heavy tanks broke through the defenses of the 2nd Battalion, De Ruyter consisting of 35–45 capable men running between their heavy machine guns.\nSimultaneously, Soviet platoons were climbing up the Grenadier Hill under intensive German bombardment. Eventually the attack was repelled by German hand grenades. The Soviets attacked the II. Battalion, 3rd Estonian which, in close combat, destroyed 12 tanks and repelled this latest assault. Units of the Soviet 8th Army advanced in the forests of the southern section of the front.\n\nOn 31 July the Soviet command changed the direction of its preparatory artillery fire, this time aiming it behind the hill and cutting off the German defenders from the main army group. The gradual decrease in the number of shells fired by the Soviet artillery (9,000 rounds on 30 July) was evidence of the weakening of the Soviet attacks. Soviet infantry started climbing up the Grenadier Hill. The Estonian units against them ran out of ammunition. The remnants of the I. Battalion, 3rd Estonian resisted the Soviet attacks on the southern flank.\n\nThat time the political commissar of the 2nd Shock Army admitted the failure to break through the defense. He explained it by stating the artillery fire was running late. The report presented the false assertion that the Germans had captured the Grenadier Hill only on 30 July.\n\nReceiving the order from Stalin to break through to Tallinn at all costs, Govorov made Fedyuninsky responsible for reaching Rakvere no later than 7 August. During the first days of August, the 2nd Shock Army received the 110th and 124th Rifle Corps as reinforcements, raising the number of troops to over 20,000 again. The 8th Army received similar additions to their forces with the 112th and 117th Corps ordered to join the attacks. Soviet tank forces were also restored, with 104 armored vehicles at their command. At the nine kilometre long segment of the front, 1,913 assault guns were collected, making it 300 guns per kilometer. 365 pieces of heavy artillery were aimed at the Grenadier Hill and 200 at the Sirgala hamlet in the south segment. As the daily amount, 200,000 shells were supplied to the artillery. On 1 August, no combat took place, as both parties reorganized their forces. The Leningrad Front tried to shift the center of weight southwards.\n\nThe Army Detachment Narwa replaced its units with the less damaged detachments in the first days of August. Despite inflicting immense casualties on the Soviets, the Waffen-SS units were slowly getting worn down. The Nederland Brigade was reduced to the size of a regiment, while the two regiments of the Langemarck \"Sturmbrigade\" each had the strength of a reinforced company. The 2nd Estonian Regiment was virtually lost and the Nordland Division a shadow of its former self. To the German's good fortune, Soviet intelligence severely overestimated the strength of the defenders to more than 60 tanks and 800 pieces of artillery while in fact there were just one tank and 70–80 guns left at the Tannenberg Line.\n\nBy 2 August, the 2nd Shock Army had re-deployed and assaulted, using the same tactics as previously. The men of Nederland who survived the artillery bombardment, retreated down the slopes of the Grenadier Hill pursued by the Soviet units. In Steiner's memoirs, the intensity of the fire and the nature of the battles reminded him of the Battle of Verdun. When the artillery barrage ended, the freshly drafted II.Battalion, \"Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46\" (2nd Estonian) returned fire after inflicting severe casualties on the assaulting Soviets and counterattacked, reclaiming the Grenadier Hill. Soviet tanks broke through in the southeastern section of the front.\n\nOn 3 August, the Soviets made a stronger attempt with the preparatory artillery fire of 25,000–30,000 shells reaching the level of the attack of 29 July. The fire caused heavy casualties, while a part of the defenders left their positions. Eleven Soviet rifle divisions and four tank regiments tried to spread their attack along the front. However, the main weight of the impending attack tended to be at the Grenadier Hill once more. The German artillery noticed the concentration of the Soviet forces, and launched their rocket fire, inflicting numerous casualties on the Soviet infantry and tanks before the beginning of the attack. As the German artillery fire did not dent the Soviet superiority in manpower, the Soviet attack began as scheduled. The 110th Rifle Corps assaulting the Grenadier Hill found themselves in the middle of cross-fire from the remnants of the I.Battalion, 2nd Estonian Regiment. As the commanders of the rifle corps erroneously reported to army headquarters on the capture of the Grenadier Hill, the artillery fire was lifted. The Estonians counterattacked and cleared the hill. \n\nIn a similar fashion, the Soviets made two more attacks on 3 August. Each of them began with a massive artillery barrage and ended with a German counterattack, restoring the previous positions. Overall on 3 August, twenty Soviet tanks were destroyed. The Soviet attacks from 4 to 6 August were weaker; on 4 August, eleven tanks were destroyed, and seven more on 5 August. During the night before 6 August, six tanks were knocked out. On 10 August, the war council of the Leningrad Front ordered the termination of the offensive and switch strictly to defense. The Soviets reduced their operations to patrol activities with occasional attacks. The defenders used this respite to rotate several exhausted units out of the line for a few days for rest and refit, and to strengthen their positions. Until mid-September, the front stayed quiet.\n\nIn the era of the Soviet Union, losses in the Battle of Tannenberg Line were not mentioned in Soviet sources. In recent years, Russian authors have published some figures but not for the whole course of the battle. The number of Soviet casualties can only be estimated by looking at other figures. In the attack of 29 July, 225 men survived of the Soviet 109th Rifle Corps carrying the main weight of the assault. Of the 120th Rifle Division, 1,808 men were lost; killed or wounded. The rest of the Soviet rifle corps lost their capacity for further attacks. In the same attack, the German forces lost 600 men. The headquarters of the 2nd Shock Army reported 259 troops fit for combat within the 109th Rifle Division and a total exhaustion of the army on the night before 1 August, which probably meant a few thousand troops fit for combat out of the 46,385 men who had initiated the Estonian Operation on 25 July. The losses of the 8th Army were similar to that.\n\nIn the evening of 29 July, the Army Detachment Narwa counted 113–120 Soviet tanks destroyed, almost half of them in the battles of 29 July. The 2nd Shock Army reported on fifty of their tanks destroyed on 29 July. The German side counted an additional 44 Soviet tanks destroyed on 3–6 August.\n\nRussian author Grigoriy F. Krivosheev, in his account \"Soviet casualties and combat losses in the twentieth century\", lists 665,827 casualties suffered by the Leningrad Front in 1944, 145,102 of them as dead, missing in action, or captured. Estonian historian Mart Laar, deducting the losses in the Leningrad-Novgorod Offensive, Battle for the Narva Bridgehead and the combat in Finland estimates the number of Soviet casualties in the Battle of Tannenberg Line as 35,000 dead or missing and 135,000 wounded or sick.\n\nThe German Army Group North buried 1,709 men in Estonia between 24 July and 10 August 1944. Added to the men missing in action, the number of irrecoverable casualties in the period is approximately 2,500. Accounting the standard ratio 1:4 of irrecoverable casualties to wounded, the total number of German casualties in the Battle for Tannenberg Line is approximately 10,000 men.\n\nOn 14 September, the Riga Offensive was launched by the Soviet 1st, 2nd and 3rd Baltic Fronts. It was aimed at capturing Riga and cutting off Army Group North in Courland, western Latvia. After much argument, Adolf Hitler finally agreed to allow the evacuation of all the troops in Estonia. After months of holding the line, the exhausted men of the III SS Panzer Corps joined the withdrawal; fighting their way back from the Tannenberg Line. On 17 September, the 3rd Baltic Front launched the Tallinn Offensive from the \"Emajõgi\" River Front joining Lake Peipus with Lake Võrtsjärv. The operation was aimed at encircling the Army Detachment Narwa. Unable to hold the force, the German units withdrew towards the northwest while the incomplete II Army Corps was left to stall the Soviet attack. German forces withdrew quickly towards the Latvian border. On 22 September, Tallinn was abandoned. Some of the Estonian formations now began to attack the retreating Germans, attempting to secure supplies and weapons to continue a guerrilla war as the Forest Brothers against the Soviet occupation. Several troops of the Estonian Division stayed in Estonia. These units continued fighting, some survivors joining the guerrilla groups which fought the Soviet occupying forces until the end of the 1970s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932708", "title": "Monkey (novel)", "text": "Monkey (novel)\n\nMonkey: A Folk-Tale of China, more often known as simply Monkey, is an abridged translation by Arthur Waley of the sixteenth-century Chinese novel \"Journey to the West\" by Wu Cheng'en of the Ming dynasty. Originally published in 1942, it remains one of the most-read English-language versions of the novel. The translation also won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize in 1942.\n\nAt the outset of the novel, Buddha seeks a pilgrim who will travel to India. The hope is to retrieve sacred scriptures by which the Chinese people may be enlightened so that their behaviour may accord with the tenets of Buddhism. The young monk Tripitaka volunteers to undertake the pilgrimage. Along the way, he encounters and frees the Monkey King, and he and Monkey thereafter recruit Pigsy and Sandy. They liberate a captive princess and punish her abductor, who has also murdered her father. The father is resurrected and reinstalled as king. They meet several bodhisattvas and fight fierce monsters, before finally arriving at Buddha's palace.\n\nArthur Waley's abridged translation was published in 1942, and has also been published as \"Adventures of the Monkey God\"; and \"Monkey: [A] Folk Novel of China\" and \"The Adventures of Monkey\", and in a further abridged version for children, \"Dear Monkey\". Whereas previous abridged versions of \"Journey to the West\" retained the original number of chapters but reduced their length significantly, Waley adopted the opposite approach; he translated only 30 chapters out of 100 episodes, but did so nearly in full, omitting mainly the poetry. He is also responsible for inventing the names of the main characters: Sun Wukong as \"Monkey\", Tang Sanzang as \"Tripitaka\", Zhu Bajie as \"Pigsy\", and Sha Wujing as \"Sandy\".\n\n\"Journey to the West\" may be roughly divided into three parts: first, the introduction including the origin of Monkey, Tripitaka, Pigsy, and Sandy; second, the actual journey to the west, which has an episodic nature; and last, the ending, telling what happens when the pilgrims reach their destination. Waley chose to translate the entirety of the introductory and ending chapters, as well as three episodes, each several chapters long, of the journey to the west.\n\nWaley's translation was for many years the most popular translation of \"Journey to the West\" available in the English language and therefore cited by Western scholars of Chinese literature and appreciated by Western readers. The British poet Edith Sitwell characterized \"Monkey\" as \"a masterpiece of right sound\", one that was \"absence of shadow, like the clearance and directness of Monkey's mind.\" Professor of Chinese literature David Lattimore described it as a \"minor landmark of 20th-century English translation\", though adding that it had been overtaken as the most authoritative English edition with the publication of Anthony C. Yu's four-volumes, unabridged translation published in the late 1970s and early 80s by the University of Chicago Press. Lattimore also doubts that Wu Cheng'en can safely be identified as the author. Elaine Yee Lin Ho in her study of the British writer Timothy Mo says \"Monkey\" remains \"the most popular and textually accessible translation\" of \"Journey to the West\".\n\nThe literary scholar Andrew H. Plaks has voiced reservations. Waley's \"brilliant translation,\" he points out, not only shortened the work, but \"through its selection of episodes gave rise to the misleading impression that this is essentially a compendium of popular materials marked by folk wit and humor.\" In this, Waley consciously followed the interpretation put forth earlier in the century by the scholar Hu Shih, who wrote an introduction to the 1943 edition of Waley's book. Hu scorned the allegorical interpretations of the novel as old-fashioned and instead insisted that the stories were simply comic. Hu Shih's interpretation reflected the popular reading of the novel, but does not account for the levels of meaning and the allegorical framework which scholars in China and the west have shown to be an important part of the late Ming text.\n\nWaley's translation was also in its turn re-translated into other languages, e. g. into Swedish as \"Kung Markatta\" (1949).\n\n\"Monkey\" is said to have been the inspiration for Cordwainer Smith's epic novel \"Norstrilia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1932715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932715", "title": "Avigdor Ben-Gal", "text": "Avigdor Ben-Gal\n\nAvigdor \"Yanush\" Ben-Gal (; 1936 – February 13, 2016; born Janusz Goldlust) was an Israeli general.\n\nHe was born in 1936, in Łódź, Poland, as Janusz Ludwig Goldlust. When he was three years old, World War II broke out with Germany invading Poland. His family left Poland for the Soviet Union, and finally arrived in Soviet Russian Siberia. After his parents disappeared, he eventually arrived in Tel Aviv with his sister on the Tehran transport. They were taken in and raised by a distant cousin.\n\nA few years after Israel became independent and won the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, Ben-Gal was drafted into the Israel Defense Forces (IDF). His first combat experience came during the 1956 Suez War with Egypt. Despite having dreamed of being a doctor, he decided to stay in the army after his mandatory military service was finished. In an interview, he explained his reasons:\n\n\"I never intended to turn the army into a career, but I remained because I liked it. I loved the Negev, the desert, the fields. I loved speeding in jeeps. Later I got used to the army, and it became a part of me. And maybe also, I was afraid to make a new start in life.\"\n\nDuring the Six-Day War in 1967, he was the operations chief of a brigade that broke through Egyptian fortifications in the Sinai. He lost half his right foot when his jeep struck a mine. By 1972, he had been appointed commander of a brigade.\n\nDuring the Yom Kippur War in 1973, Ben-Gal commanded the 7th Armored Brigade and oversaw the defense of the Golan Heights against Syrian attack. Ben-Gal had foreseen the war two weeks before it started, and had begun preparing his brigade. As the threat of war wasn't being taken seriously in Israel at the time, he had been branded a \"madman\". However, when the war broke out, his brigade was the only IDF unit in a state of full readiness.\n\nThe heroic stand of the 7th Armored Brigade and Yanush Ben-Gal's personal heroism and leadership are believed by many to be decisive factors in the Israeli victory over the Syrians.\n\nIn 1977, Ben-Gal was appointed head of the Northern Command. He served in this position until late-summer 1981, when he was replaced by General Amir Drori.\n\nIn June 1997 he was called to testify in a libel suit that Ariel Sharon brought against the Israeli newspaper \"Ha'aretz\" for their claim that he had concealed his plans for an operation into Lebanon in 1982.\n\nHis testimony, however, contradicted earlier statements he had made at Tel Aviv University, where he had stated that the greatest problem with the Lebanon War was the \"secret, unapproved plan of the defense minister and chief of staff.\"\n\nThe following month, \"Ha'aretz\" requested that the Attorney General investigate the possibility that Ben-Gal had given false testimony in court in exchange for business favours from Sharon. The complaint noted that shortly before his appearance at the trial, Ben-Gal was sent by Sharon to explore the possibility of a large natural gas deal in Russia.\n\nIn 2001, Ben-Gal reportedly submitted an application to train the Congo Army in Israel.\n\nFrom 1996 to 1999, he was chairman of the board of directors for Israel Aerospace Industries, succeeding Zvi Zur and succeeded by Ori Orr. He also served on the board for the International Policy Institute for Counter-Terrorism.\n\nDuring a 2007 military conference in Latrun, Ben-Gal sharply criticized what he viewed as a deterioration in the battle readiness of the IDF, and claimed that the IDF's technological revolution has turned soldiers into \"bionic machines\" and sown fear among senior officers that open criticism would hamper advancement in their own careers. He expressed the view that all the new technologies being introduced were useless, and claimed that it had gotten to the point where commanders prefer to email each other instead of interacting.\n\nFrom 2009 until his death, he served as chairman of the board of directors for cyberarms firm NSO Group. Ben-Gal died on February 13, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1932718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932718", "title": "Hydrangea quercifolia", "text": "Hydrangea quercifolia\n\nHydrangea quercifolia, commonly known by its translation oakleaf hydrangea or oak-leaved hydrangea, is a species of flowering plant native to the Southeastern United States, in woodland habitats from North Carolina west to Tennessee, and south to Florida and Louisiana. A deciduous shrub with white showy flower heads, it is a commonly grown garden plant. Numerous cultivars are available commercially.\n\nAmerican botanist William Bartram described \"Hydrangea quercifolia\". Its species name is derived from the Latin words \"quercus\" \"oak\", and \"folium\" \"leaf\".\n\n\"Hydrangea quercifolia\" is a coarse-textured deciduous shrub growing to tall with an open crown. The plant sprouts shoots from underground stolons and often grows in colonies. Young stems are covered in a felt-like light brown bark, and the larger stems have attractive cinnamon-tan-orange bark that shreds and peels in thin flakes.\n\nThe leaves are yellowish green to dark green on top and silvery-white underneath. They have three, five or seven pointed lobes and are 4–12 in (10.2–30.5 cm) long and almost as wide. They are larger versions some oak leaves, resembling \"Quercus\" species with lobed foliage. Plants in shade have larger leaves than those grown in sun. \"Hydrangea quercifolia\" leaves turn rich shades of red, bronze and purple in autumn that persist in winter accompanying the persistent dried flower-heads.\n\n\"Hydrangea quercifolia\" flowers are borne in erect panicles 6–12 in (15.2–30.5 cm) tall and 3–5 in (7.6–12.7 cm) wide at branch tips. Flowers age in colour from creamy white, aging to pink and by autumn and winter are a dry, papery rusty-brown.\n\nUnlike bigleaf hydrangea (\"Hydrangea macrophylla\"), flower color does not vary with soil pH.\n\nOakleaf hydrangea and the popular peegee hydrangea (\"H. paniculata\") are the only hydrangeas with cone-shaped flower clusters; all the others have their flowers in ball-shaped or flat-topped clusters, called umbels.\n\nNative to continental southeastern North America it grows in mixed hardwood forests, along streams and on forested hillsides, usually on calcareous soils, and often where limestone is at the ground surface. \"Hydrangea quercifolia\" is an understory shrub, often in the shade of large oaks, hickories, magnolias, American beech, etc.\n\n\"Hydrangea quercifolia\", noted by 18th-century botanist William Bartram in his botanizing exploration from the Carolinas to the Florida panhandle in the 1770s. It was slow to enter British and American gardens. In Britain it flowers less profusely and even has a reputation for being tender. In the U.S. its 'more natural' form and texture, compared to the more common \"Hydrangea macrophylla\" cultivars, has increased its use in garden design across the country since the latter 20th century.\n\n\"Hydrangea quercifolia\" is cultivated as an ornamental plant in gardens and parks. Though frequently seen as an isolated subject in gardens, it is at its best in a natural or landscaped woodland habitat against the backdrop of larger shrubs and trees. It prefers partial to almost full shade, with morning sun and afternoon shade as optimal. It will tolerate drought, but may not flower. The plant prefers slightly acidic soils with a pH of 5.0–6.5. In the UK the cultivars =‘Brido’<ref>\n"}
{"id": "1932725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932725", "title": "John Cooper Clarke", "text": "John Cooper Clarke\n\nJohn Cooper Clarke (born 25 January 1949) is an English performance poet who first became famous during the punk rock era of the late 1970s when he became known as a \"punk poet\". He released several albums in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and continues to perform regularly.\n\nHis recorded output has mainly relied on musical backing from the Invisible Girls, which featured Martin Hannett, Steve Hopkins, Pete Shelley, Bill Nelson, and Paul Burgess.\n\nClarke was born in Salford, Lancashire, in 1949. He lived in the Higher Broughton area of the city and became interested in poetry after being inspired by his English teacher, John Malone, whom he described as \"a real outdoor guy, an Ernest Hemingway type, red blooded, literary bloke\". Recollecting his childhood, Clarke said:\n\nHis first job was a laboratory technician at Salford Tech. He began his performance career in Manchester folk clubs, where he began working with Rick Goldstraw and his band the Ferrets. His first releases were on Tosh Ryan and Martin Hannett's independent label Rabid, starting with the EP \"Innocents\" in October 1977. Rabid also released his debut LP \"Où est la maison de fromage'?\" (catalogue number NOZE 1), which was a collection of live recordings, demos and rehearsals. This was reissued by Revolver Records in 1989 (RRLP 10) also making it his last album to date. He toured with Bill Nelson's band Be-Bop Deluxe in 1978 and was signed by Epic Records, who issued the studio album \"Disguise In Love\", produced by Hannett, in 1978.\n\nClarke has attributed his early success in part to the influence of the English poet Pam Ayres. Her run of success on the British TV show \"Opportunity Knocks\" led both Clarke and his mother to believe that he could make a living at poetry.\n\nIn 1979 he had his only UK top 40 hit with \"Gimmix! (Play Loud)\". Clarke toured with Linton Kwesi Johnson, and has performed on the same bill as bands such as the Sex Pistols, the Fall, Joy Division, the Buzzcocks, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Elvis Costello, Rockpile and New Order (including at their May 1984 Music for Miners benefit concert at London's Royal Festival Hall). His set is characterised by lively, rapid-fire renditions of his poems, usually performed a cappella. Often referred to as \"the bard of Salford\", he usually refers to himself on stage as \"Johnny Clarke, the name behind the hairstyle\".\n\nClarke appeared in a 1982 music documentary compilation \"Urgh! A Music War\", in which he performed his poem \"Health Fanatic\". The film featured live performances of mainstream artists (the Police, the Go-Go's, XTC, Devo) as well as more obscure bands (Pere Ubu, Invisible Girls, the Alley Cats, Athletico Spizz '80, Chelsea) using concert footage from around the world. He also starred in another 1982 film titled \"John Cooper Clarke - Ten Years in an Open Necked Shirt\" directed by Nick May and produced for the Arts Council of Great Britain and Channel 4. Somewhere between a narrative film, a series of music videos and a documentary, the film features interviews and performances by Clarke and Linton Kwesi Johnson among others.\n\nClarke released \"Zip Style Method\" in 1982, but thereafter performed his live act less frequently, spending much of the 1980s mired in heroin addiction, living in a \"domestic partnership\" with singer and fellow addict Nico. He described this period of his life: \"It was a feral existence. I was on drugs. It was hand to mouth.\" In 1987 he performed live (on crutches owing to a broken ankle) at the Albany Empire in London with Suns of Arqa, recorded two tracks (\"Libera Me\" and \"The Truth Lies Therein\") for their album \"Seven\", and featured in the music video for the latter. In 1988 he made an appearance in two UK adverts for Sugar Puffs, taking second billing to the Honey Monster. He returned to live performance in the 1990s, appearing again with Suns of Arqa in 1992 at The Witchwood in Ashton-under-Lyne. His vocals from both of his Suns of Arqa tracks have been used on numerous remixes by the band ever since.\n\nAfter 20 years of performing the same material, Clarke re-established contact with guitarist Rick Goldstraw, who had founded Blue Orchids and played with The Fall and Nico. Goldshaw began handling Clarke's affairs and the two toured with the Mescaleros and several times supporting the Fall. He also duetted with Reverend Jon McClure at a Reverend and the Makers concert at London's Spread Eagle, performing the poem \"Last Resort\", which would later be released as the B-side for the band's single \"Heavyweight Champion of the World\". Clarke also recorded a song with the band entitled \"Dead Man's Shoes\". Clarke's recording of \"Evidently Chickentown\" from his album \"Snap, Crackle & Bop\" was also featured prominently in the closing scene of \"The Sopranos\" episode \"Stage 5\". A live performance of the same poem appears in the film \"Control\" with Clarke portraying himself in a re-creation of a 1977 concert in which he supported Joy Division, despite being 30 years older than the events depicted in the film. \"Evidently Chickentown\" (recited by Christopher Eccleston) is featured in the made-for-television film \"Strumpet\".\n\nClarke's poem \"Out of Control Fairground\" was printed inside the Arctic Monkeys' 2007 single \"Fluorescent Adolescent\" CD. The poem is also the inspiration behind the single's video in which clowns brawl. Alex Turner of the Arctic Monkeys has said he is very fond of Clarke's work and takes inspiration for lyrics from his poems.\n\nClarke was the subject of a BBC Four documentary, \"Evidently... John Cooper Clarke\", in May 2012, screened as part of the BBC's \"Punk Britannia\" season. That same year, Clarke featured in rapper Plan B's feature film \"Ill Manors\" and subsequently the \"Ill Manors\" album.\n\nIn July 2013, Clarke was awarded an honorary doctorate of arts in \"acknowledgement of a career which has spanned five decades, bringing poetry to non-traditional audiences and influencing musicians and comedians\" by the University of Salford. Upon receipt, Clarke commented: \"Now I'm a doctor, finally my dream of opening a cosmetic surgery business can become a reality.\" His poem \"I Wanna Be Yours\" was adapted by Arctic Monkeys and frontman Alex Turner for the band's fifth album, \"AM\", released on 9 September 2013.\n\n2015 saw Clarke present a documentary on Thomas de Quincey's \"Confessions of an English Opium Eater\" in the BBC's second series of \"The Secret Life of Books\".\n\nOn 13 January 2018, Clarke appeared as a contestant on an academic version of BBC One's \"Pointless Celebrities\" partnered with historian Suzannah Lipscomb; they reached the head-to-head round.\n\nIn July 2019 Clarke was the guest for BBC Radio 4's \"Desert Island Discs\". A fan of the show for 60 years, he described it as having \"all the finality of a suicide note, without the actual obligation of topping yourself\". His book choice was \"Against Nature\" by Joris-Karl Huysmans, his luxury item was a boulder of opium twice the size of his head and his favourite track was \"How Great Thou Art\" by Elvis Presley.\n\nClarke has lived for nearly 20 years in Colchester, Essex, with his second wife, Evie, who is French. They have one daughter, Stella.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932729", "title": "Horwitz", "text": "Horwitz\n\nHorwitz is a surname, current among Ashkenazi Jews. It is derived from the Yiddish pronunciation of the name of the town of Hořovice in Bohemia. \n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932736", "title": "Chinese Navy (disambiguation)", "text": "Chinese Navy (disambiguation)\n\nTwo modern navies have been known in English as the Chinese Navy:\n\nFor Chinese navies before 1912, see:\n"}
{"id": "1932741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932741", "title": "Hydrogen station", "text": "Hydrogen station\n\nA hydrogen station is a storage or filling station for hydrogen, usually located along a road or hydrogen highway, or at home as part of the distributed energy resources (DER) concept. The stations are usually intended to provide fuel for hydrogen-powered vehicles, but the hydrogen can also be used to power small devices. Vehicles use hydrogen as fuel in one of several ways, including fuel cells and mixed fuels like HCNG. The hydrogen fuel dispensers measure the fuel dispensed by weight.\n\nA global map of hydrogen filling stations is available.\n\nJapan built a number of hydrogen filling stations under the JHFC project from 2002 to 2010 to test various technologies of hydrogen generation. By the end of 2012 there were 17 hydrogen stations and 19 new stations were expected to be installed by 2015. The Japanese government expects to add up to 100 hydrogen stations under a budget of $460 million. That amount covers 50% of the installation costs, with the last stations operational by 2015. JX Energy expects to install 40 stations by 2015, and another 60 between 2016 and 2018. Toho Gas and Iwatani Corp After that, they expect to install an additional 20 stations. Toyota Tsusho and Air Liquide made a joint venture to build 2 hydrogen stations, which were planned to be ready by 2015. Osaka Gas planned 2 stations for 2014–15. A task force led by Yuriko Koike, Japan's former environment minister, and supported by the country's Liberal Democratic Party, was set up to oversee the process.\n\nAs of 2018, approximately 18,000 full cell electric vehicles (FCEV) were produced in Korea (domestic demand: 9,000 vehicles), which means that more hydrogen recharging stations are required across the country. In response to the rising demand for FCEVs, the Korean government established plans to increase the number of hydrogen recharging stations to 310 by 2022. According to the Ministry of Environment, there are 14 stations at the moment, with 10 more coming by the end of 2018.\n\n, there are more than 49 stations in Europe capable of filling 4–5 cars per day.\n\nThere were two public stations in the hydrogen link network in 2014. Four more were expected to open in 2015. H2 Logic, a part of Nel ASA, is building a factory in Herning to manufacture 300 stations per year, with each station capable of dispensing 200 kg of hydrogen per day, and 100 kg in 3 hours.\n\nThere were three hydrogen stations in 2016, one of which was movable. None of these stations are currently in operation. The stations could fill a car with 5 kg in three minutes, based on international standard SAE J2061 with refueling pressures of 350 or 700 bar. Europe's second largest electrolysis (of water, capacity 1,400,000 kg/a high-purity hydrogen) hydrogen production plant is operating in Kokkola, Finland.\n\nAs of September 2013, there are 15 publicly available hydrogen fuel stations in operation. Most, but not all of these stations are operated by partners of the Clean Energy Partnership. The number of stations nationwide was expected to increase to 50 by 2015 under a letter of intent through its public private partnership Now GMBH. program NIP with a subsidy of 20 Million Euro. This was accomplished in 2018. H2 Mobility GmbH & Co. KG wants to raise that number to 100 stations from 2015 to 2019 and to 400 stations as the number of hydrogen cars increases, at a cost of €350 million Euro.\n\nIceland opened its first commercial hydrogen station in 2003 as part of the country's initiative to implement a hydrogen economy.\n\nThe first commercial hydrogen station was opened in 2015 in Bolzano.\n\nThe Netherlands opened its first public refuelling station on September 3, 2014, in Rhoon near Rotterdam. The station uses hydrogen from a pipeline that runs from Rotterdam to Belgium. Two private stations in Amsterdam and Arnhem were set to open to the public before 2017, while the station at Helmond is not open for public access.\n\nNorway's first Hynor hydrogen fuelling station was opened in February 2007, as part of the Scandinavian hydrogen highway partnership. Uno-X, in partnership with Nel Asa, planned to build 20 stations before 2020, including a station with on-site hydrogen production from excess solar energy, which would be the first such station in existence.\n\nUNIDO launched in May 2010 on behalf of the International Centre for Hydrogen Energy Technologies. They plan to build a station on The Golden Horn in Istanbul. This station will be used for the refuelling of a hydrogen fuel cell driven passenger boat, as well as for a hydrogen-powered bus.\n\nIn 2011 the first public hydrogen station opened in Swindon. In 2014 HyTec opened the London Hatton Cross station. On March 11, 2015, the London Hydrogen Network Expansion project opened the first supermarket-located hydrogen refuelling station at Sainsbury's in Hendon. Aberdeen opened its first hydrogen station in 2015, in Kittybrewster, for buses and council vehicles. In 2018 this station opened to the public, and in 2017 a second station was opened in the suburb of Cove Bay. Hydrogen stations in Bedfordshire and Stratford were scheduled to open to the public before 2016. The HyFive project had 3 stations planned for London by 2015. On October 9, 2014, the British government announced funding of £11 million to have 15 public hydrogen refuelling stations built at the end of 2015. In September 2015, Shell and ITM Power announced a strategic siting partnership for the placement of an initial three ITM hydrogen refuelers on Shell forecourts in London and the South East of the UK.\n\nFive stations have been built in British Columbia since 2005. There are no official plans to build any more fuelling stations in Canada, as the hydrogen fuelling project ended in March 2011. In 2018, Shell Canada launched an initiative to build more hydrogen fuelling stations starting with the first in Vancouver. They currently plan on building at least two more within the city.\n\nHydrogen recharging stations can be divided into off-site stations and on-site stations depending on how they supply hydrogen to vehicles (whether they produce their own hydrogen or not). Hydrogen recharging stations that have been built across Korea at the moment are mostly off-site (tube trailer-type) stations. Moving forward however, stations for large capacity hydrogen buses are expected to be on-site stations. \n\nA hydrogen highway is a chain of hydrogen-equipped filling stations and other infrastructure along a road or highway. Italy and Germany are collaborating to build a hydrogen highway between Mantua in northern Italy and Munich in southern Germany.\n\nHydrogen home stations come in different types.\n\n\n\n\nCurrently, the hydrogen recharging stations built by Hyundai Motor Group can recharge up to 70 Hyundai Nexo vehicles per day, assuming that the station is open for 14 hours daily. However, hydrogen recharging stations without high-pressure (900bar) storage tanks may require some additional downtime to repressurize the hydrogen in its recharging system if they refuel too many vehicles in a day.\nIn the future, hydrogen recharging stations moving forward will feature more robust equipment (minimum 1,200kg/day for a 24-hour business day) to make sure they can serve a greater number of FCEVs.\n\nHydrogen fuel is hazardous because of its low ignition energy, high combustion energy, and because it easily leaks from tanks. Explosions at hydrogen filling stations have been reported. \n\nHydrogen fuelling stations generally receive deliveries from hydrogen suppliers. An interruption at a hydrogen supply facility can shut down multiple hydrogen fuelling stations due to an interruption of the supply of hydrogen.\n\nSince the turn of the millennium, filling stations offering hydrogen have been opening worldwide. However, they are far from replacing the existing extensive gasoline fuel station infrastructure, which in the US alone numbered 168,000 gas stations, in 2004, which generated revenues of US$536 billion in 2014. According to Joseph Romm in a book he wrote in 2004, replacing these would cost a half trillion U.S. dollars. \n\nThe cost of the necessary European-wide hydrogen fueling infrastructure could be five times lower than the cost of the charging network required for battery and plug-in hybrid vehicles. When viewed as cost per station, EV stations are cheaper than the $3 million per hydrogen station. However, the reason that hydrogen infrastructure is less expensive than electric, even though the individual station cost is higher, is quicker vehicle fueling and longer refueling intervals, thus needing far fewer hydrogen stations per million fuel cell cars than charging stations per million battery electric cars.\n\nhttp://www.prweb.com/releases/2014/07/prweb12042788.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "1932755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932755", "title": "Jōban Line", "text": "Jōban Line\n\nThe is a railway line in Japan operated by East Japan Railway Company (JR East). It begins at Nippori Station in Arakawa, Tokyo and approximately parallels the Pacific coasts of Chiba, Ibaraki, and Fukushima Prefectures before the line officially ends at Iwanuma Station in Iwanuma, Miyagi. However, northbound trains at Tokyo originate at (and Shinagawa with the opening of the Ueno–Tokyo Line on March 14, 2015) rather than Nippori; likewise, many trains continue past Iwanuma onto the Tōhoku Main Line tracks to .\n\nThe name \"Jōban\" is derived from the names of the former provinces of Hitachi (常陸) and Iwaki (磐城), which are connected by the line to reach Tokyo.\n\nThe section of the Jōban Line between Tomioka and Namie, which extends through the exclusion zone surrounding the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear meltdown, closed in the wake of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, but was reopened on 14 March 2020.\n\n\nThe Jōban Line connects Tokyo and the Tōhoku region. After the opening of the Tōhoku Shinkansen in 1982, the Jōban Line was split into two parts at Iwaki. South of Iwaki is mainly double track (Ayase - Toride is quad track), and north of Iwaki is predominantly single track. After the Fukushima disaster in 2011, the Jōban Line is further segmented in the Iwaki – Sendai section.\n\nThis entire section is served by a variety of services, which will be explained below by the sections where they operate in.\n\nLimited express trains operate across the entire section. See \"Hitachi\" and \"Tokiwa\" for details.\n\nThis section is mainly served by local, rapid, medium distance train services serving the Greater Tokyo area.\n\n\nTrains that run beyond Toride are distinctly referred to as the Jōban Line 常磐線, without the term \"Rapid\". Trains that are called Jōban Line (Rapid) cannot go beyond Toride, as their rolling stock cannot be powered by alternating current, which is the type of electrification that the section uses.\n\nThis section is mainly served by local trains.\n\n\nThis section is mainly served by local trains.\n\n\nBefore the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, local trains and limited express trains used to run across the entire section. However, due to the damages caused after the disaster, the section between Tomioka to Harunomachi had to be closed down, and services were suspended. After certain sections of the line were reconstructed, regular services were gradually allowed to resume.\n\nThis section is served by local service trains. Trains cannot continue on beyond Tomioka as they once did, because the section beyond is closed (explained below).\n\nThis section, which extends through the exclusion zone surrounding the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear meltdown, was suspended after the 2011 disaster. This section re-opened on 14 March 2020. Prior to this date, services were provided by an interim bus service.\n\nThis section is served by local service trains, which serves the Greater Sendai area.\n\nThe section was once partially closed due to the 2011 disaster, but has since reopened in stages. The reconstructed segment between Hamayoshida and Sōma was reopened on 10 December 2016, prior to which services were provided by an interim bus service. JR East is currently inspecting the segment between Namie and Odaka in preparation for the surrounding areas being cleared for re-settlement. Train services between Namie and Odaka resumed on 1 April 2017. Train services between Tatsuta and Tomioka resumed on 21 October 2017.\n\n\n\nLegend\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Mito Railway opened the line in sections between 1889 and 1905. The dates of the individual section openings are given below. After the line was nationalised in 1906, a program of double-tracking commenced in 1910, with the 219 km section between Nippori and Yotsukura completed in 1925. The Hirono - Kido and Ono - Futaba sections were double-tracked in 1976.\n\nThe first section electrified was Nippori - Matsudo (at 1,500 V DC) in 1936, and extended to Toride in 1949. The Toride - Kusano section was electrified at 20 kV AC between 1961 and 1963, and extended to Iwanuma in 1967.\n\nThe 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami caused severe disruption to the line, with services to Iwaki (209.4 km from Nippori) re-established by 17 April, to Yotsukura (a further 9.8 km) by 14 May, and to Hirono (another 13.2 km) by 10 October 2011. Services on the 8.5 km Hirono - Tatsuta section returned on 1 June 2014.\n\nAt the northern end, services on the isolated 20.1 km Haranomachi - Soma section were restored on 21 December 2011, with services from Iwanuma to Hamayoshida (13.5 km) restored on 16 March 2013. Services resumed on the 9.4 km Haranomachi - Odaka section on 12 July 2016 and the 22.6 km Hamayoshida - Soma section was rebuilt at a higher, tsunami-proof level, and reopened on 10 December 2016, re-establishing the connection to Sendai for stations north of Odaka. The line fully reopened on 14 March 2020.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932759", "title": "Making out", "text": "Making out\n\nMaking out is a term of American origin dating back to at least 1949, and is used to refer to kissing, including extended French kissing or heavy kissing of the neck (called \"necking\"), or to acts of non-penetrative sex such as heavy petting. Equivalent terms in other dialects include the British English getting off and the Hiberno-English shifting. When performed in a stationary vehicle, it has been euphemistically referred to as \"parking\", coinciding with American car culture.\n\nThe sexual connotations of the phrase \"make out\" appear to have developed in the 1930s and '40s from the phrase's other meaning: \"to succeed\". Originally it meant \"to seduce\" or \"to have sexual intercourse\". \n\nStudies indicate that at the beginning of the 20th century, premarital sex increased, and with it, petting behavior in the '20s. The Continental zeitgeist is amusingly illustrated by a letter that Freud wrote to Sándor Ferenczi in '31, playfully admonishing him to stop \"kissing\" his patients; Freud warned him lest \"a number of independent thinkers in matters of technique will say to themselves: Why stop at a kiss? Certainly one gets further when one adopts 'pawing' as well, which, after all, doesn't make a baby. And then bolder ones will come along who will go further, to peeping and showing – and soon we shall have accepted in the technique of analysis the whole repertoire of \"demi-viergerie\" and petting parties\".\n\nBy the postwar period, necking and petting became accepted behavior in mainstream American culture as long as the partners were dating. A 1956 study defined \"necking\" as \"kissing and light caressing above the neck\" and \"petting\" as \"more intimate contact with the erogenous zones, short of sexual intercourse\". Alfred Kinsey's definition of \"petting\" was \"deliberately touching body parts above or below the waist\", compared to \"necking\" which only involved general body contact.\n\nMaking out is usually considered an expression of romantic affection or sexual attraction. An episode of making out is frequently referred to as a \"make-out session\" or simply \"making out,\" depending on the speaker's vernacular. It covers a wide range of sexual behavior, and means different things to different age groups in different parts of the United States. It typically refers to kissing, including prolonged, passionate, open-mouth kissing (also known as French kissing), and intimate skin-to-skin contact. The term can also refer to other forms of foreplay such as heavy petting (sometimes simply called petting), which typically involves some genital stimulation, but usually not the direct act of penetrative sexual intercourse.\n\nThe perceived significance of making out may be affected by the age and relative sexual experience of the participants. Teenagers sometimes play party games in which making out is the main activity as an act of exploration. Games in this category include seven minutes in heaven and spin the bottle.\n\nTeenagers may have had social gatherings in which making out was the predominant event. In the United States, these events were referred to as \"make-out parties\" and would sometimes be confined to a specific area, called the \"make-out room\". These make-out parties were generally not regarded as sex parties, though heavy petting may have been involved, depending on the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932760", "title": "International Recording Media Association", "text": "International Recording Media Association\n\nThe International Recording Media Association (IRMA), previously known as the International Tape Association (ITA), was an international trade association dealing with every facet of recording, media and related industries. Their membership includes raw material providers, manufacturers, replicators, duplicators, packagers, copyright holders, and others.\n\nFounded in 1970 by media pioneer Larry Finley, IRMA today counts such recording media giants as Sony, Panasonic, JVC, BMG, Universal, Fuji, Eastman Kodak, Warner, and EMI among its member companies.\n\nAccording to their official website:\n\nWith the advent of digital delivery IRMA evolved into the CDSA, the Content Delivery & Security Association. Their aim IP protection. The CDSA merged with the MESA (Media & Entertainment Services Alliance) by bringing additional aspects of digital delivery, fulfilment and distribution in a single organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932765", "title": "Blood banana", "text": "Blood banana\n\nThe blood banana (\"Musa acuminata\" var. \"zebrina\"), is a variety of the wild banana \"Musa acuminata\" native to Sumatra, Indonesia. The blood banana is named that way because underneath the skin there are bones soaked with blood. Blood bananas are sometimes sold in supermarkets, which has led other supermarkets to specifically advertise that their bananas are boneless. \n\nThe blood banana is a variety of the wild banana species \"Musa acuminata\", one of the two ancestors of modern edible bananas. It was once classified as separate species under the now invalid names (synonyms) \"Musa zebrina\" and \"Musa sumatrana\". It was also sometimes incorrectly classified as a cultivar. The variety is not accepted by some sources, including the World Checklist of Selected Plant Families, which regards it as part of the nominate subspecies of \"Musa acuminata\", \"M. acuminata\" subsp. \"acuminata\".\n\nThe blood banana is also known as the red banana tree, though it should not be confused with the red banana cultivar. Other common names in English include seeded red banana, Sumatra ornamental banana, and maroon-variegated banana plant. They are also known as in Spanish, () in Japanese, () in Thai, and in Vietnamese.\n\nBlood bananas are characterized by dark red patches of variable sizes on their dark green leaves. Their pseudostems are characteristically very slender. They bear small, slender fruits filled with grape-like seeds.\n\nBlood bananas are native to Java, Indonesia. They are notable for being one of the earliest banana subspecies to be spread by humans out of Southeast Asia. Introduced eastward to Africa, they became the ancestors for the genetically distinct and commercially important East African Highland bananas (Mutika/Lujugira subgroup of the AAA group).\n\nIt is probably the only seeded banana to ever be introduced into Hawaii before European contact. It is known as the in Hawaiian, though the name is also applied to the species \"Musa balbisiana\", which was introduced later on.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932771", "title": "Hami", "text": "Hami\n\nHami is a prefecture-level city in Eastern Xinjiang, China. It is well known as the home of sweet Hami melons. In early 2016, the former Hami county-level city was merged with Hami Prefecture to form Hami prefecture-level city now known as Yizhou District.\n\nCumuḍa (sometimes \"Cimuda\" or \"Cunuda\") is the oldest known endonym of Hami, when it was founded by a people known in Han Chinese sources as the \"Xiao Yuezhi\" (\"Lesser Yuezhi\"), during the 1st millennium BCE.\n\nThe oldest attested Chinese names is \"\" (; by the time of the Han dynasty it was referred to in Chinese as \"\" () or \"\" (), in the Tang dynasty as , .\n\nBy the 10th century CE, the city and its residents were known to the Han as \"\" (). A monk named Gao Juhui, who had traveled to the Tarim Basin, wrote that the \"Zhongyun\" were descendants of the \"Xiao Yuezhi\" and that the king of Zhongyun resided near Lop Nur.\n\nFollowing the subsequent settlement of Uyghur-speaking people in the area, Cumuḍa became known as \"Čungul\", \"Xungul\", \"Qumul\", \"Qomul\" and \"Kumul\" (Yengi Yezik̡: \"K̡umul\", \"K̡omul\").\n\nThe toponym also appears as \"\" in the History of the Yuan dynasty, the biographies of which include references to the place using both names: Baurchuk Art Tekin () bases his troops at \"Hāmìlì\" in \"juan\" 122, while one Tabun () is recorded as being a man of \"Yīwúlú\" in \"juan\" 124.\n\nDuring the Yuan dynasty the Mongolian name for the place, \"Qamil\", transcribed into Chinese as \"\" (), was widely used.\n\nMarco Polo reported visiting \"Camul\" in the mid-14th century and that was the name under which it first appeared on European maps, during the 16th century.\n\nFrom the Ming dynasty onwards, Qumul was known in Han sources as \"\" ().\n\nWhen Matteo Ricci visited the city in 1605 in his account of the Portuguese Jesuit Benedict Goës, he used the same spelling as well.\n\nLionel Giles has recorded the following names (with his Wade–Giles forms of the Chinese names converted to Pinyin):\n\n\nHami is a modern city named after the Chinese name for the wider province, a disputed region claimed by various states throughout history, and its historic capital, Qocho, about 325 km to the west.\n\nDuring the Later Han dynasty, Hami repeatedly changed hands between the Chinese and Xiongnu who both wanted to control this fertile and strategic oasis. Several times the Han set up military agricultural colonies to feed their troops and supply trade caravans. It was especially noted for its melons, raisins and wine.\n\nThe decline of the Xiongnu and the Han dynasty led to relative stability and peace for Hami and the surrounding area. However, in 456, the Northern Wei dynasty occupied the Hami region. Based here, they launched raids against the Rouran Khagante. After the decline of the Northern Wei dynasty around the 6th century, the First Turkic Khaganate assumed control of the region. Hami was then tossed around between the western and eastern branches of the khaganate.\n\nXuanzang visited the oasis town, famous for its melons, the first of a string of oases supplied by the Tian Shan Mountains. This water had been preserved in underground wells and channels since time immemorial. The town had long been inhabited by a Chinese military colony. During the early Tang dynasty and reaching into the Sui dynasty, the Chinese colony had accepted Turkic rule. Xuanzang stayed at a monastery inhabited at the time by three Chinese monks.\n\nThe Tang Dynasty asserted control over the region and occupied Hami in the 7th century. The Tibetan Empire and the Tang vied for control of the region until the Chinese were repelled in 851. After the collapse of the Uyghur empire, a group of Uyghurs migrated to the Hami region and ushered in an era of linguistic and cultural change of the local population. The Mongols conquered this region during the Yuan Dynasty. Later Gunashiri, a descendant of Chagatai Khan, founded his own small state called Qara Del in Kumul or Hami, which accepted Ming supremacy in the early 15th century, but was conquered by another branch of Mongols later on.\nThe Ming Dynasty established this region as Kumul Hami in 1404 after the Mongol kingdom Qara Del accepted its supremacy. But it was later controlled by Oirat Mongols. Hami officially accepted and converted to Islam in 1513. Since the 18th century, Kumul became the center of the Kumul Khanate, a semi-autonomous vassal state within the Qing Empire and the Republic of China as part of Xinjiang. The last ruler of the khanate was Maqsud Shah.\n\nA traveler in 1888 gave the following description of the city:\n\nHami is located at the border with Gansu province.\n\nHami (Kumul) is in a fault depression at above sea level, and has a temperate zone, continental desert climate (Köppen \"BWk\") (see Hami Desert), with extreme differences between summer and winter, and dry, sunny weather year-round. On average, there is only of precipitation annually, occurring on 25 days of the year. With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 68% in December to 79% in September and October, the city receives 3,285 hours of bright sunshine annually, making it one of the sunniest nationally. The monthly 24-hour average temperature ranges from in January to in July, while the annual mean is . The diurnal temperature variation is typically large, at about an average for the year.\n\nAs of 2015, 427,657 of the 616,711 residents of the county were Han Chinese, 109,072 were Uyghur, 55,550 were Kazakh and 17,588 were Hui.\n\n, Hami had a population of about 580,000 of which 68.4% were Han Chinese and 31.6% ethnic minorities, mostly Uyghurs, Kazakhs, and Hui.\n\nThe Hami area is known for its large amount of high quality raw resources with 76 kinds of metals already detected. The major mineral resources of this area include coal, iron, copper, nickel, gold.\n\nA newly discovered nickel deposit in Hami is estimated to contain reserves of over 15.8 million tons of the metal, it therefore ranks as China's second largest nickel mine. Around 900,000 tons of nickel has already been detected. Some local copper and nickel mining enterprises are reported to have begun operation, with Xinjiang Nonferrous Metals Group mining company running its nickel smelter crude production furnace at Hami Industrial Park.\n\nHami is connected to Xinjiang and the rest of China by high-speed and conventional rail links. The Lanzhou–Xinjiang High-Speed Railway, a passenger dedicated high speed rail line running from Lanzhou in Gansu Province to Ürümqi passes through the city. Hami is a stopping point for the Lanzhou–Xinjiang Railway and Ejin–Hami Railway, two lines that are part of trans-national transport corridors. The Lanzhou–Xinjiang Railway carries passengers and freight, connecting the rest of China to Central Asia and beyond as part of the New Eurasian Land Bridge through a border cross in Kazakhstan, and the Ejin–Hami Railway moves passengers and freight as part of a planned corridor beginning in the Bohai Gulf in North China to Torugart Pass on the border with Kyrgyzstan. A short rail line of transports potassium salts mined near Lop Nur to Hami.\n\nBy road Hami is located along China National Highway 312, an east–west route of from Shanghai to Khorgas, Xinjiang in the Ili River valley, on the border with Kazakhstan.\n\nHami Airport is a one-gate airport located northeast of the city center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932779", "title": "Sabin of Bulgaria", "text": "Sabin of Bulgaria\n\nSabin () was the ruler of Bulgaria from 765 to 766.\n\nSome scholars think that Sabin was omitted from the Namelist of Bulgarian Rulers because he was a Slav, but his name could indicate Latin or even Iranian origins. He was related by marriage to Kormisosh, who was either a father-in-law or a brother-in-law of Sabin. Since the relation is by marriage, Sabin would not have actually belonged to the Vokil (=Ukil?) clan.\n\nSabin rose to the throne after the murder of Telets in 765 and represented that part of the Bulgarian nobility which was seeking a policy of accommodation with the Byzantine Empire. Accordingly, he swiftly dispatched secret emissaries to Emperor Constantine V Kopronymos, who had recently defeated Sabin's predecessor Telets, seeking to re-establish peace. When the negotiations were discovered, the Bulgarians rebelled and held an assembly, in which they accused Sabin of causing Bulgaria's enslavement by the Byzantines.\n\nDeserted by his supporters, Sabin fled to Byzantine Mesembria (Nesebăr) in 766, from whence he went to Constantinople. There he was received by the emperor, who arranged for the transfer of Sabin's family from Bulgaria. In 768 Sabin attended Constantine V's negotiations with a new Bulgarian ruler, Pagan, but the emperor's words on behalf of the former monarch made little impression. Sabin passed the remainder of his life in exile.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932780", "title": "Samiha Khalil", "text": "Samiha Khalil\n\nSamiha al-Qubaj Salameh Khalil (Arabic: سميحة خليل) in Anabta, District of Tulkarm 1923 – February 26, 1999 in Ramallah), also known as Umm Khalil, was a Palestinian charity worker as well as a prominent figure in Palestinian politics.\n\nBorn in a village, she dropped out of highschool at the age of seventeen to marry Salameh Khalil. After the 1948 War, the couple fled to Gaza where they raised a family of five children, and in 1964 Samiha finally returned to school and graduated.\n\nIn 1965, Khalil came to the public eye when she founded the al-Inaash al-Usra society in her garage - it would grow to become the largest and most effective Palestinian welfare organization. In 1977 she became the first and only female member of the National Front Committee.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Khalil was tied to the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine and detained six times by the IDF; she saw two of her children deported from Israel and the other three (who had been out of the country at the time) forbidden from re-entering. She was eventually placed under town-arrest in al-Bireh.\n\nIn 1996 she ran for president of the Palestinian Authority, losing to Yasser Arafat, while garnering 11.5% of the vote.\n\nA grandmother of 13, Khalil remained an active member in the political scene, serving on the Palestinian National Council up until her death in 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932784", "title": "Age of Empires", "text": "Age of Empires\n\nAge of Empires is a series of historical real-time strategy video games, originally developed by Ensemble Studios and published by Xbox Game Studios. The first game of the series was \"Age of Empires\", released in 1997. Seven other games and three spin-offs have been released.\n\n\"Age of Empires\" focused on events in Europe, Africa and Asia, spanning from the Stone Age to the Iron Age; the expansion game explored the formation and expansion of the Roman Empire. The sequel, \"\", was set in the Middle Ages, while its expansion focused partially on the Spanish conquest of Mexico. The subsequent three games of \"Age of Empires III\" explored the early modern period, when Europe was colonizing the Americas and several Asian nations were on the decline. The newest installment, \"Age of Empires Online\", takes a different approach as a free-to-play online game utilizing Games for Windows Live. A spin-off game, \"Age of Mythology\", was set in the same period as the original \"Age of Empires\", but focused on mythological elements of Greek, Egyptian, and Norse mythology. A fourth main installment in the series, \"Age of Empires IV\", is under development.\n\nThe \"Age of Empires\" series has been a commercial success, selling over 25 million copies. Critics have credited part of the success of the series to its historical theme and fair play; the artificial intelligence (AI) players have fewer advantages than in many of the series' competitors.\n\nThe games in the series focus on historical events throughout time. \"Age of Empires\" covers the events between the Stone Age and the Classical period, in Europe and Asia. Its expansion, \"\", follows the formation and rise of the Roman Empire. \"\" and its follow Europe and Asia through the Middle Ages. \"The Age of Kings\" expansion pack, \"\", is set during the same period, but also includes scenarios about the Spanish conquest of Mexico, El Cid, and Attila the Hun. \"Age of Empires III\" and its first expansion, \"\", take place during the European colonization of the Americas. Its second expansion, \"\", follows the rise of Asia in the same period. Age of Empires Online focuses on the Greek and Egyptian civilizations. The series' spin-off, \"Age of Mythology\", and its expansion pack, \"\", are set during the Bronze Age, but focus on mythology as their themes, rather than history.\n\n\"Age of Empires\", released on October 26, 1997, was the first game in the series, as well as the first major release from Ensemble Studios. It was one of the first history-based real-time strategy games made, utilizing the Genie game engine. GameSpot described it as a mix of \"Civilization\" and \"\". The game gives players a choice of 12 civilizations to develop from the Stone Age to the Iron Age. The expansion pack, \"The Rise of Rome\", published by Microsoft on October 31, 1998, introduced new features and four new civilizations, including the Romans. Although the two games had contained many software bugs, patches resolved many of the problems.\n\n\"Age of Empires\" was generally well received, despite some highly negative reviews. GameSpot criticized a confused design, while \"Computer and Video Games\" praised the game as strong in single and multiplayer. The Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences named \"Age of Empires\" the 1998 \"Computer Strategy Game of the Year.\" For several years, the game remained high on the sales charts, with over three million units sold by 2000. \"The Rise of Rome\" sold one million units in 2000 and attained 80% as an score from GameRankings.\n\nIn June 2017, Adam Isgreen, creative director of Xbox Game Studios announced \"Age of Empires: Definitive Edition\" at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2017. It will feature overhauled graphics with support for 4K resolution, a remastered soundtrack, and other gameplay improvements, and was planned to be released on October 19, 2017, but was delayed until February 20, 2018, when it was released on the Microsoft Store. On May 30, 2019, Microsoft announced that the Definitive Edition would be coming to Steam in the future, along with the Definitive Editions of both Age of Empires II and Age of Empires III.\n\n\"Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings\", released on September 30, 1999, used the Genie game engine, and had gameplay similar to its predecessor. \"Age of Kings\" is set in the Middle Ages, from the Dark Ages to the Imperial Age. It allows players to choose one of 13 civilizations, from Europe, Asia, and the Middle East.\n\nOn August 24, 2000, Microsoft published the expansion, \"The Conquerors\". It added new units and five new civilizations, including two Mesoamerican civilizations: the Maya and the Aztec. \"The Age of Kings\" was a bigger critical success than the first two games, with Game Rankings and Metacritic scores of 92%. Microsoft shipped out more than two million copies to retailers, and the game received numerous awards and accolades. Critics agreed that \"The Conquerors\" expanded well on \"The Age of Kings\", though issues of unbalanced gameplay were raised. \"The Age of Kings\" and \"The Conquerors\" won the 2000 and 2001 \"Computer Strategy Game of the Year\" awards from the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences, respectively.\n\nIn April 2013, \"\" was released on the Steam digital distribution platform for Windows operating systems. The \"HD Edition\" includes both the original game and the expansion \"The Conquerors\", as well as updated graphics for high-resolution displays. In November 2013, a second expansion entitled \"The Forgotten\" was released by Microsoft exclusively for the \"HD Edition\". A third expansion named \"The African Kingdoms\" was released by Microsoft in November 2015, also exclusively for the \"HD Edition\". A fourth expansion entitled \"Rise of the Rajas\" was released on 19 December 2016. On August 21, 2017, Microsoft announced \"\".\n\nIn June 2019, Adam Isgreen, now the Franchise Creative Director for Age of Empires, shared more information regarding the at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2019. He confirmed that the Definitive Edition was being developed by Forgotten Empires, Tantalus Media, and Wicked Witch Software. He announced that the game would feature \nnew 4K graphics, Xbox Live support for multiplayer, exclusive achievements, four new civilizations (Bulgarians, Cumans, Lithuanians, Tatars), three new campaigns, a new spectator mode and tournament features, and additional quality of life improvements. It was released on November 14, 2019. Bert Beeckman, co-founder of Forgotten Empires, confirmed on June 12 that Age of Empires II: HD Edition would not be removed from sale after the release of Age of Empires II: Definitive Edition.\n\n\"Age of Empires III\", released on October 18, 2005, was built on an improved version of the \"Age of Mythology\" game engine with the most significant changes being the updated graphics engine and the inclusion of the Havok physics middleware engine. The game is set in the period between 1421 and 1850, and players can choose one of eight European nations. The game introduced a large number of features, such as home cities. Described by Ensemble Studios as \"an important support system to your efforts in the New World,\" home cities help provide the player with resources, equipment, troops, and upgrades. They can be used across multiple games, and upgraded after each battle; the feature was compared to a role-playing game character by Ensemble Studios. The first expansion to \"Age of Empires III\", \"The WarChiefs\", was released October 17, 2006. Most gameplay changes in the expansion pack were small, but it introduced three new civilizations, with a focus on Native Americans. Most notable was the introduction of the unit. The second expansion, \"\", went on sale October 23, 2007. It was a jointly developed product; Big Huge Games helped Ensemble Studios develop the game, with Brian Reynolds joining Bruce Shelley as lead designer. The game expanded the \"Age of Empires III\" universe into Asia, and introduced three new civilizations. Reception towards \"Age of Empires III\" was mixed; Game Revolution described it as \"about as much fun\" as a history textbook, while GameZone argued it was \"one of the best looking games, much less an RTS game, that is out on the market currently\". It sold more than two million copies, and won the GameSpy \"real-time strategy game of the year\" award. \"The WarChiefs\" failed to equal the success of its predecessor, with a lower score on both Game Rankings and Metacritic, and \"The Asian Dynasties\"' score was lower still with 80%.\n\nSeveral collectors' editions of \"Age of Empires III\" included a hardcover artbook. The last page of the artbook has a pictorial depiction of the series; the Roman numerals below each panel range from I to V, indicating the series would include an \"Age of Empires IV\" and \"Age of Empires V\". Ensemble Studios employee Sandy Petersen said that the image \"was total speculation on [their] part.\"\n\nIn 2008, Microsoft announced they were closing down Ensemble Studios following the completion of \"Halo Wars\". Some of its employees would form a new team as part of Microsoft Studios. Kevin Unangst, director of Games for Windows, denied it was the end of the \"Age of Empires\" series, telling \"The San Francisco Chronicle\" \"we're very excited about the future potential for \"Age of Empires\"\". \"Edge\" confirmed, in an interview with Microsoft's corporate vice president of interactive entertainment, Shane Kim, that Microsoft continued to own \"Age of Empires\" and that they had plans to continue the series. However, Bruce Shelley wrote in his blog that he would not be part of any new studios formed.\n\nOn August 21, 2017, Microsoft announced \"Age of Empires III: Definitive Edition\". On May 30, 2019, Microsoft announced that the \"Definitive Edition\" would be coming to Steam in the future, along with the Definitive Editions of both Age of Empires and Age of Empires II.\n\nOn January 23, 2020, Microsoft announced that the closed beta is set to begin in early February of that year. The beta will have a limited rollout, but players can sign up to be an Insider at the official website, and adjust profile settings to get into the pool of invitees. Invites will be distributed by email. Betas will run on both Steam and the Microsoft Store, and each beta session will include a small piece of the game. Larger numbers of invites will be distributed for beta sessions in March. There will be campaign betas, as well, but these will be limited to an even smaller group of players.\n\nThe first closed beta session began on February 11, 2020 and ended on February 19, 2020. The second closed multiplayer session began on March 31 and will run through April 7. \n\nOn August 21, 2017, Microsoft announced \"Age of Empires IV\", developed by Relic Entertainment. Microsoft's Executive Vice-President of Gaming, Phil Spencer, confirmed on June 11, 2019, that \"Age of Empires IV\" is still in development, with more information coming later in 2019. On November 14, 2019, gameplay footage of \"Age of Empires IV\" was shown at the XO19 event. It showed medieval warfare between English and Mongol forces. The release of \"Age of Empires IV\" is rumored to be in 2021.\n\n\"Age of Mythology\" shared many elements of gameplay with the main series, and was considered a part of the series, despite its different focus. The campaign in \"Age of Mythology\" tells the story of an Atlantean, Arkantos, and his quest to find why his people are out of favor with Poseidon. Microsoft published the game on October 30, 2002, and its expansion, \"The Titans\", on October 21, 2003. \"The Titans\" featured the Atlanteans as a new civilization. Its campaign is shorter than previous expansions, and centers on Kastor, son of Arkantos, who falls for the lies of the titans and frees them from Tartarus. \"Age of Mythology\" sold more than one million units in four months. It scored 89% on Game Rankings and Metacritic. \"The Titans\" failed to equal the sales success of \"Age of Mythology\", although critics rated it highly.\n\nBackbone Entertainment developed \"\" as a turn-based game for the Nintendo DS. Majesco Entertainment published the game on February 14, 2006. It is similar to other turn-based games, such as \"Advance Wars\", but with a gameplay based on its PC . \"Age of Empires: The Age of Kings\" scored 80% on Game Rankings and Metacritic. Konami brought a game of the same title to the PlayStation 2 around five years earlier than the DS version, but the game had little promotion, and sold poorly.\n\nOn August 16, 2010, Microsoft announced \"Age of Empires Online\", which was a free-to-play Games for Windows Live online game, it developed in collaboration with Robot Entertainment. It featured Free-to-play experiences via Games for Windows LIVE as well as: A persistent online capital city that lives and grows even when you're offline, Cooperative multiplayer quests, trading and a level-based system that lets you progress at your own pace. Premium content could be earned or purchased, such as access to blueprints and special items, as well as more quests and features. In September 2013, it was announced that the game would remain functional until July 1, 2014, after which it would be shut down due to the content being too expensive to maintain.\n\nOn April 13, 2014, \"\" was announced. It was developed by KLab Games for the iOS, Android and Windows Phone. It was released on December 7, 2015, with the service terminated on 30 November 2016.\n\nOn August 25, 2014, \"\" was announced. It is a touch-based game developed by Smoking Gun Interactive. It was released on September 17, 2014 for the Windows PC and Windows Phone 8.\n\nThe development phases of the \"Age of Empires\" games were similar in several ways. Due to the games being based on historical events, the team often had to do large amounts of research. However, the research was not in depth, which, according to \"Age of Empires\" designer Bruce Shelley, is \"a good idea for most entertainment products.\" Shelley also said that Ensemble Studios took most of the reference material from children's sections at libraries. He pointed out the goal was for the players of the game to have fun, \"not [its] designers or researchers.\" At the Games Convention Developers Conference in 2007, Shelley continued with this thought and explained that the success of the series laid in \"making a game which appealed to both the casual and hardcore gamer.\" Shelley also remarked the \"Age of Empires\" games were not about history in itself, but rather \"about the human experience;\" they focused not simply on what humans had done but on what they could do in the future such as \"going into space.\" Ensemble Studios developed \"Age of Mythology\" in a different way than the previous two games. The team had worried they \"couldn't get away\" with a third historical-based game, and chose mythology as the setting after they had discussed several options.\n\nThe artificial intelligence (AI) used in the \"Age of Empires\" series has been developed and improved regularly by designers. AI specialist Dave Pottinger noted the development team gave the AI in the original game a very high priority, and spent over a year working on it. He said that the AI in the game relies on tactics and strategies to win, instead of \"cheating\" by giving bonus resources to itself, or tweaking its units to be stronger than normal. Pottinger later noted that the \"Age of Empires\" series team took great pride in their AI playing a \"fair game\" and didn't know what the player was doing and had to play by the same rules as its human opponents.\n\n\"Age of Empires\" allows players to choose to play either along specialized, story-backed conditions or as individual battles against the AI (and other players). Choosing to battle against the AI – rather than following the storyline – allows the AI to adapt to players' strategies and even remember which games it won and lost. The AI eventually overcomes players' strategies and easily destroys their villages after several games. For instance, in \"Age of Empires III,\" this is referred to as playing a \"Skirmish.\" However \"Age of Empires III\" allows players to refine their strategies further against the AI by \"Building a Deck,\" which allows players to replace \"Home City\" shipments with improved alternatives.\n\nIn \"Age of Empires II: The Conquerors\" the AI was given a high priority, the result being the \"smart villager\" feature, which was included in subsequent games of the series. After building a structure that stores or produces resources, smart villagers would proceed to collect resources related to the structure, such as crops from farms or ore from exposed deposits.\n\n\"Age of Mythology: The Titans\" lets players use an AI debugger when creating custom scenarios; players can change the settings of computer players and make them act according to certain patterns. More basic changes to the AI had previously been available in the series' first two games.\n\nThe graphics and visuals of \"Age of Empires\" improved with each successive release. From the original release to the second, \"Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings,\" noteworthy improvements gained praise from several critics. With the release of \"Age of Mythology\" the praise continued, and the fourth release, \"Age of Empires III,\" garnered even more.\n\nGameSpot praised the improved graphics in the second release, \"Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings.\" Eurogamer welcomed its introduction of female villagers as compared with the original male only version. Allgame praised the advanced grouping and path-finding systems in the second release. Despite the improved graphics, Allgame complained that units in \"Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings\" were at times difficult to distinguish from one another, a point numerous reviewers agreed on. Nevertheless, Game Revolution wrote that the second release was \"the best looking of the 2D RTS games out there right now.\"\n\nThe graphics continued to improve in \"Age of Mythology\" and was praised by a majority of reviewers. IGN ranked the graphics in this third release, \"a joy to watch ... awesome.\" GameSpot assented, also rating the graphics a 9 out of 10. Game Revolution agreed, and PC Gamer stated that the graphics in the third release \"are packed with detail.\"\n\nThe trend in improved graphics continued well into the next release, \"Age of Empires III,\" much to the delight of reviewers. IGN stated, \"After seeing the screenshots, our jaws hit the floor at the amount of detail.\" \"1UP.com\" described \"Age of Empires III\" as \"one of the most beautiful games you will put on your computer for the foreseeable future.\" GameSpy agreed, stating, \"\"Age III\"s graphics are unmatched in the strategy genre.\" \"Age of Empires III\" builds on and introduces new features to the prior release, \"Age of Mythology,\" such as the inclusion of the award-winning Havok physics simulation middleware game engine for the Windows version and PhysX for the Mac OS X. The innovative result is that pre-created animations are avoided; instead events are calculated according to the physics engine. Consequently, views of events like building destruction and tree felling are not pre-recorded. GameSpot also admired the graphics in the fourth release but complained about \"the awkward unit behavior.\" Other graphical features of the game include bloom lighting and support for pixel shader 3.0.\n\nGameSpy awarded \"Age of Empires III\" the \"Best Graphics\" award at GameSpy's \"Game of the Year 2005.\"\n\nStephen Rippy has been the series' music director since the first game. He has had occasional help from his brother, David Rippy, as well as Kevin McMullan. He created the original music in \"Age of Empires\" with sounds of instruments from the periods in the game. These sounds came from actual instruments, and their digital samples. The tunes were the result of extensive research on the cultures, styles, and instruments used. Rippy said that sound development on \"The Age of Kings\" was easy, since there was knowledge of the instruments used in the Middle Ages. Therefore, they were able to reproduce the tunes for the soundtrack of the game. In \"Age of Mythology\", an orchestral instrumentation was used, instead. According to McMullan, the team also collected large numbers of audio recordings from zoos, and created \"a massive sound library of [their] own material.\" The music of \"Age of Empires III\" was similar to \"The Age of Kings\", in which the team used more historical instruments; Rippy noted the team used instruments such as \"bagpipes and field drums\" to give it a realistic feel.\n\nEnsemble Studios worked together with Big Huge Games to develop \"The Asian Dynasties\", \"Age of Empires III\"s second expansion. This was the first joint venture for both teams. The reason for them doing so was compatible schedules: Ensemble Studios was busy with other projects—particularly \"Halo Wars\"—while Big Huge Games' real-time strategy team had few projects at that time. Big Huge Games did most of the work, but Ensemble Studios designers Greg Street and Sandy Petersen joined in the brainstorming, and had control over the final product. Both studios had roles in testing the game before its release.\n\nThe \"Age of Empires\" series has been a commercial success. As of 2008, five of its games have each sold more than one million copies. According to Gamasutra, \"Age of Empires\" had sold more than three million copies, and \"The Rise of Rome\" sold one million copies as of 2000. Around the same time, Microsoft announced that they shipped over two million copies of \"The Age of Kings\". In 2003, Microsoft announced the sales of one million copies for \"Age of Mythology\". By 2004—prior to the release of \"Age of Empires III\"—the \"Age of Empires\" franchise had sold over 15 million copies. On May 18, 2007, Ensemble Studios announced that two million copies of \"Age of Empires III\" had been sold.\nGames in the series have consistently scored highly on video game review aggregator websites GameRankings and Metacritic, which collect data from numerous review websites. As noted in the adjacent table, the highest rating game is \"Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings\", receiving a 92% score from both sites.\n\nCritics have credited \"Age of Empires\" for influencing real-time strategy (RTS) games such as \"Rise of Nations\", \"Empire Earth\", and \"\". \"\" was also influenced by the series: it utilized the Genie game engine, as \"Age of Empires\" and \"Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings\" had, and was considered by critics to be a very close replica to the games; IGN began their review with the statement \"I love \"Age of Star Wars\", I mean \"Star Empires\". Whatever it's called, I dig it.\" and GameSpot wrote that \"fundamentals of the \"Age of Empires II\" engine are so intact in \"Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds\" that veterans of that game can jump right in.\" In October 2005, Shelley commented on the impact of the series. In a GameSpy interview, he explained that parents would \"tell Ensemble Studios that their kid is reading books about ancient Greece because they enjoy playing with the triremes so much, or that they want to check out books about medieval history because [the] game taught them what a trebuchet was.\"\n\nShelley has said that the key to the success of the games was its innovation, rather than imitation of its peers. He also claimed the unique elements in the games \"helped establish the reputation of Ensemble Studios as masters of the real-time strategy genre.\" Mark Bozon of IGN wrote in his review of \"The Age of Kings\", \"The \"Age of Empires\" series has been one of the most innovative real-time strategy games for PC in the last decade or so.\" Gamenikki called Ensemble Studios \"the developer that started it all\" when they talked about how much \"Age of Empires III\" had done to advance the real-time strategy genre. Shelley has acknowledged the success and innovation of \"Age of Empires\" helped to ensure Ensemble survive its early periods since startup. In 2005, Shelley complained of critics holding an \"innovation bias\" against the series; citing the 60% score from \"Computer Gaming World\", he said that despite \"Age of Empires III\" being \"perhaps the best selling PC game in the world\", reviewers expected \"something really new\", and rated it harshly.\n\nBungie chose Ensemble Studios to develop \"Halo Wars\", an RTS game based on their \"Halo\" series. They said that one of the reasons they chose to work with Ensemble was because of the \"Age of Empires\" series. They also noted that Ensemble was the perfect choice \"to realize the original vision of \"Halo\"\", which started life as an RTS.\n"}
{"id": "1932787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932787", "title": "Richard Jacques", "text": "Richard Jacques\n\nRichard Adrian Jacques (; born 2 April 1973) is a British composer of film, television and video game music. Best known for his critically acclaimed orchestral scores for blockbuster franchises such as , Mass Effect, LittleBigPlanet 2, Alice In Wonderland, Starship Troopers and Headhunter, Jacques has collaborated with numerous premier TV and movie theatre campaigns for some of the world's largest media agencies including Saatchi & Saatchi and McCann Ericsson, and some of the best global brands such as Audi, Bacardi, Mercedes-Benz and Stella Artois. His music for television includes top brand shows for the BBC, ITV and Channel 4. \n\nBorn in Leamington Spa, England, Jacques was interested in composing music from an early age. He was awarded a scholarship to attend the Royal Academy of Music in London, studying trombone and piano, and showed a keen interest in composition in multiple styles including orchestral, jazz and popular music genres. He then attended Wells Cathedral School aged 16 as a Specialist Musician, where he also took up Percussion. In 1994 Jacques graduated with a Batchelor of Arts degree in Music from Colchester Institute / University of Essex. He was immediately hired as an in-house composer at Sega Europe.\n\nAt Sega Europe, Jacques began by composing soundtracks for a number of Sega Saturn and Dreamcast games such as , Sonic 3D, Jet Set Radio, Metropolis Street Racer and Jet Set Radio Future.\n\nJacques's perhaps best known and acclaimed work at SEGA came with 2001's \"Headhunter\" was the first video game soundtrack to be recorded with A-list musicians at Abbey Road Studios' Studio One. The soundtrack was well received, and won multiple awards including Game Audio Network Guild 'Recognition Award', and was performed at the first Symphonic Game Music Concert at The Gewandhaus in Leipzig and Video Games Live events including the inaugural concert at the Hollywood Bowl in 2015. Jacques left Sega Europe shortly after Headhunter's release and became a freelance composer, continuing his relationship with SEGA by scoring in 2004.\n\nJacques went on to compose the BAFTA and Ivor Novello nominated original music for , which is a big energy score that immerses the audience in a thrilling, cinematic Bond experience. The score received top honours for \"Best Original Composition\" from the Music and Sound Awards 2012. After this, Jacques composed the music for the Alice In Wonderland game, for Disney in 2010, and Little Big Planet 2 for Sony in 2011.\n\nSoon after, Richard opened a new studio in central London AUDISSI where which he writes original music for new advertising, television. video games and other visual media projects, including an animated feature film. This included music for TV game-shows such as: The Crystal Maze, Fifteen to one, Prize Island and Catchphrase, amongst other shows.\n\nIn 2018, Jacques was presented with the Lifetime Achievement award from the Game Audio Network Guild.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932800", "title": "Extranjero", "text": "Extranjero\n\nExtranjero was a 1990 album by Franco De Vita released on the CBS Records label. The CD produced three singles, most notably the critically acclaimed \"No Basta,\" which spent four weeks at No. 1 on the Billboard Latin music charts in the United States. Other singles from the album included \"Ya Lo He Vivido\" and \"Será.\"\n\nAll the songs written and composed by Franco De Vita.\n"}
{"id": "1932808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932808", "title": "Tal Chhapar Sanctuary", "text": "Tal Chhapar Sanctuary\n\nTal Chhapar Sanctuary is a sanctuary located in the Churu district of Northwestern Rajasthan in the Shekhawati region of India. It is known for blackbucks and is also home to a variety of birds. The sanctuary is 210 km from Jaipur on the fringe of the Great Indian Desert and situated on road from Ratangarh to Sujangarh. The Tal Chhapar sanctuary lies in the Sujangarh Tehsil of Churu District. It lies on the Nokha-Sujangarh state highway and is situated at a distance of 85 km from Churu and about 132 km from Bikaner. The nearest railway station is Chappar which lies on Degana-Churu-Rewari line of North Western Railways. The nearest airport is Jaipur which is 215 km from Chappar.\n\nTal Chhapar is a refuge of the blackbuck.\n\nThe sanctuary is named after Chhapar village which is located at 27°-50' North and 74°-25' East. It is a flat saline depression locally known as a \"tal\" that has a unique ecosystem in the heart of the Thar Desert. Perched at a height of 302 meters (990 feet) above sea level. Tal Chhaper Sanctuary, with almost flat tract and interspersed shallow low-lying areas, has open grassland with scattered \"Acacia\" and \"Prosopis\" trees which give it an appearance of a typical savanna. The word \"tal\" means plane land. The rain water flows through shallow low-lying areas and collect in the small seasonal water ponds.\n\nThe geology of the zone is obscured by the wind blown over-burden. Some small hillocks and exposed rocks of slate and quartzite are found in the western side of the sanctuary. The area between hillocks and the sanctuary constitutes the watershed area of the sanctuary. The whole sanctuary used to be flooded by water during the heavy rains but with salt mining going on in the watershed, hardly any rain falling on the hillocks reaches the sanctuary. Near by villages are Jogalia, Jaitasar, Bidasar.\n\nThe forest of this region falls under major group \"Tropical Forest\" as per classifications of Indian forests by Champion & Seth. The forest of sanctuary area again falls under the group \"Topical Thorn Forest\" and sub group 6B/C \"Desert Thorn Forests\".\n\nThe sanctuary area is mostly covered by grasses with a very few trees.\n\nIt lies on the passageway of many migratory birds such as harriers. These birds pass through this area during September. Birds commonly seen in the sanctuary are harriers, eastern imperial eagle, tawny eagle, short-toed eagle, sparrow, and little green bee-eaters, black ibis and demoiselle cranes, which stay till March. Skylarks, crested larks, ring doves, and brown doves are seen throughout the year.\nDesert fox and desert cat can also be spotted along with typical avifauna such as partridge and sand grouse.\n\nTal Chappar Sanctuary comes alive with the chirping of various migratory birds including Montagu's harrier, marsh harrier, pale harrier, imperial eagle, tawny eagle, short toed eagle, sparrow hawk, skylark, crested lark, ring drove, brown dove, blue jay, southern grey shrike, Indian spotted creeper, green bee eaters, black ibis and demoiselle cranes.\n\nIn the Tal Chhapar Sanctuary, a special type of grass is found. This grass is called \"Mothiya\" locally. The word \"Mothiya\" comes from the word \"Moti\" or from the Hindi word for pearl. The shape of the seed of this grass is like very fine round shaped pearls. Mothiya has a very sweet taste. People enjoy eating it, but it is found in very small quantities. Production is only a few kilograms every season. Mothiya is also food for blackbucks and birds which dig it from the earth with their starks.\n\nThis region is characterized by a distinct winter (from October to February), summer (March to June) and monsoon (July to September). The zone has a dry climate with a large variation in temperature wind blows south – west during summer. In May and June winds become very hot and that is called \"loo\" The maximum temperature reaches up to in June and the minimum temperature falls to in December – January. The Tal Chhapar Zone comes under the principal arid zone of the country. Rainfall in this region is highly erratic. There is a large variation in mean annual rainfall in this region. The average rainfall in this region is about 300 mm.\n\nThere are two rest houses situated in the sanctuary area and being maintained by the forest department having four suites accommodation. These rest houses come under the control of Deputy conservator of forest, Churu. Anyone can contact for accommodation to DCF, Churu. Chhapar – Sujangarh state highway divides the sanctuary area into two parts. In the sanctuary there are Kacha tracks which are used for inspection, patrolling & viewing the fauna of the sanctuary.\n\nIn February 2006, Tal Chhaper was included in the itinerary of the \"Heritage on Wheel\" train. Now tourists have the opportunity to visit the sanctuary twice in a week by train.\n\nIn March 2006, Rs. 2 crore and 82 lacs budget announced by Hon'ble C.M. in her budget speech 2006-07 for the development of Tal Chhapar Sanctuary, for 2006-07 to 2010-11 (a five-year plan). The forest department has improved the grassland ecosystem of Tal Chhapar by undertaking several soil and water conservation works.\n\nTal Chhaper Sanctuary was included in the tourism map of Rajasthan tourism. Hon’ble CM has announced a project in the budget speech 2006-07 for the development of the sanctuary as an eco-tourism and wildlife tourism spot. The project includes a five-year action plan amounting to Rs.2.82 crores for integrated development of the sanctuary. Budget provision for Rs.1.10 crores in the current financial year has been sanctioned. A high-level committee headed by Principal Secretary, Forest and comprising the famous architect Ms. Revathi Kamath, fashion designer international fame Ms. Bibi Russel, commissioner Tourism and Chief wildlife warden visited the sanctuary to make a comprehensive and integrated development action plan. Rajendra Dadhich president Rajasthan Vikas Parisad, Mumbai also visited.\n\nThe sanctuary has become an important destination for the birders, who visit in large numbers during winters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932815", "title": "Walker Law", "text": "Walker Law\n\nThe Walker Law passed in 1920 was an early New York state law regulating boxing. The law reestablished legal boxing in the state following the three-year ban created by the repeal of the Frawley Law. The law instituted rules that better ensured the safety of combatants and reduced the roughness of the sport. The law limited matches to fifteen rounds, required a physician in attendance, restricted certain aggressive acts such as head-butting, and created a regulatory commission, the New York State Athletic Commission.\n\nThe first main event conducted under this new law was the Joe Welling vs. Johnny Dundee bout. Sammy Nable vs. Bobby Hanson possibly was the very first bout ever conducted under the law.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932821", "title": "Magic Knight Rayearth (video game)", "text": "Magic Knight Rayearth (video game)\n\nThe game focuses on three characters who travel the world of Cephiro to rescue an abducted princess named Emerald.\n\nThe overall plot is very similar to the first story arc in the manga and anime, with eighth-grade girls Hikaru Shidou, Umi Ryuuzaki and Fuu Hououji finding themselves drawn from their respective field trips to the Tokyo Tower into the world of Cephiro. There, Master Mage Clef inform them that, in order to return to Tokyo, the three girls must become the Magic Knights and rescue Cephiro's current Pillar, Princess Emeraude (named as Princess Emerald in the English version), from her abductor, the high priest and antagonist Zagato (named as Zagat in the English version).\n\nAll of the characters from the first arc of the manga are present in the game, as well as anime-exclusive character Inouva. However, the game presents several new locations and characters, thus considerably expanding the overall plot. The player can also read each of the girls' journals, which receive new entries after key events in the game, providing their individual insights on the events.\n\nUnlike in the manga and anime, all of Zagato's minions die throughout the game, including Ascot, Caldina and Rafarga.\n\nThroughout the game, the player controls a party of three characters. However, only one character can battle at a time; though the other two characters will follow behind the active character, they cannot attack and are unaffected by all enemy attacks and even environmental hazards. The player can instantly change the active character at any time. In essence, the three characters confront the enemies, puzzles, and assorted threats of the game in a tag team fashion.\n\nUnlike most RPGs, character upgrades and magic spells are mostly acquired upon progressing to certain points in the game, rather than by independent accomplishments. (The exceptions are maximum HP and maximum MP, which are increased by finding special items.) This is much like the Saturn's first RPG, \"Virtual Hydlide\", with the important difference that weapons and armor in \"Magic Knight Rayearth\" are upgraded as part of general level ups and do not exist as distinct gameplay elements.\n\nWhile the anime and manga both have the Magic Knights using color-coordinated swords, in the game only Hikaru uses a sword, while Umi uses a foil and Fuu a bow and arrow. Each of the three weapons has its own advantages and disadvantages. For instance, the bow works long range but requires precise aim, whereas the sword slices with broad strokes that make it easy to hit enemies but is short range only. The need to aim the bow is mostly removed once it is upgraded, since Fuu can then charge the weapon to make it \"lock on\" to the nearest target. However, unlike the sword and foil, the bow's attack power does not increase when it is charged up.\n\n\"Magic Knight Rayearth\" is based on the anime by Clamp of the same name. The game was one of 12 Sega Saturn games announced when the system was first unveiled at the June 1994 Tokyo Toy Show.\n\nThe localization of the game was handled by Working Designs. In an interview published in June 1996, the company said that the game was one of the biggest localization projects the company had ever undertaken. They pointed to the audio and dubbing alone taking up to several months alone to complete, and the game being heavily in text as reasons for why the project was so big. At the time, they said they were aiming for a late summer 1996 release date.\n\nThe North American release was originally slated for July 1996, but was delayed more than two years.\n\nAs noted in the instruction booklet, Working Designs' opening animation would have mimicked the Japanese version of the game (gems morphing into the logo) but once Working Designs \"were made aware of a logo created for the English Rayearth\" by Media Blasters, they decided to change the opening to incorporate the new logo.\n\nAs written in the translation notes in the instruction manual of the North American version, some of the source code to the original Japanese version had been lost due to a hard drive crash. The missing code was completely rebuilt for the US version.\n\nThree versions of the opening song were recorded, two of which are accessible on the game disk. Working Designs was unable to acquire the original Japanese opening theme, \"Yuzurenai Negai\" by Naomi Tamura, for the English release, and instead used the melody of the Japanese version with different lyrics. The original version was only released on Working Design's website, and had an entirely different singer and instrumentals than the two versions of the song that were released on the game. This version was a lot closer to the original anime's theme, but with Working Designs' English lyrics.\n\nThe game, as with most of Working Designs' translated titles, was packaged with different artwork on the CDs to increase their value among collectors. The CDs came with three different designs, one for each of the game's heroines.\n\nThe game currently holds a 70.03% average on \"GameRankings\".\n\nOn release in Japan, in 1995, \"Famitsu\" magazine scored the game a 26 out of 40. The localized version received mild to positive scores upon its release in North America in 1998. The game received a 5.1 mediocre review from Andrew Vestal of GameSpot. Though he found no problems with the game itself, he considered the localization of a three-year-old game to be a wasted effort due to the aging of the graphics, concluding that \"\"Magic Knight Rayearth\" is too little, too late\". \"Game Informer\" scored the game 7 out of 10, and called it rather dated. \"EGM\" scored the game 7.12 out of 10.\n\n\"Retro Gamer\" included it on their list of ten essential Saturn imports as \"easily the best playable import RPG, thanks to a highly entertaining localisation by Working Designs, its fun combat system (you effectively control one character at a time, switching between them tag-team style) and some delightful 2D visuals\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1932823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932823", "title": "Hans Rothfels", "text": "Hans Rothfels\n\nHans Rothfels (12 April 1891 – 22 June 1976) was a nationalist conservative German historian. He supported an idea of authoritarian German state, dominance of Germany over Europe and was hostile to Germany's eastern neighbours. After his applications for honorary Aryan status were rejected, due to his Jewish ancestry and increased persecution of Jewish people by Nazis, he was forced to emigrate to the United Kingdom and later to the United States during the Second World War, after which he became opposed to the Nazi regime. Rothfels returned to West Germany after 1945 where he continued to influence history teaching and became an influential figure among West German scholars.\n\nRothfels was born to a wealthy Jewish family in Kassel, Hesse-Nassau. In 1910, he converted to Lutheranism. He converted to Protestantism before the First World War broke out. He was studying history and philosophy at Heidelberg University when World War I broke out in 1914. As a student, Rothfels had been a leading pupil of Friedrich Meinecke. Rothfels served in the German Army as a reserve officer and was badly wounded near Soissons. He lost one of his legs and was in a hospital until 1917. He was awarded the Iron Cross, Second Class. In 1918, Rothfels's dissertation on Carl von Clausewitz, \"Carl von Clausewitz: Politik und Krieg\", led to Heidelberg granting him a degree in History. In 1920, Rothfels's dissertation was published as a book. In 1922, he edited and published a collection of Clausewitz's private letters. In addition, Rothfels published several collections of Otto von Bismarck's letters, and was the first historian to be authorized by the Bismarck family to publish the Iron Chancellor's correspondence. Rothfels was noted for his claim that Bismarck was neither the \"iron chancellor\" of \"banal legend\" nor an \"opportunist\", but rather a profoundly religious man struggling to deal with a reality that whose full complexity was only understandable to God. He defended Bismarck's Germanization policies against Poles claiming they were \"defensive\".\n\nBetween 1924 and 1926, Rothfels taught at the University of Berlin. From 1926 to 1934, he worked as a professor, holding the Chair of History at the University of Königsberg. During his time in Königsberg, he was well known for his highly nationalistic interpretation of German history. A reactionary in his politics, Rothfels was hostile towards the Weimar Republic, through combination of authoritarianism and mass national movement, he hoped, it would be destroyed, and connections with Western democracies broken, and envisioned that on ruins of this state a new Reich would emerged formed out of East Prussian Baltic Northeast and Southeastern outposts of former Habsburg Empire. In foreign affairs, he often denounced the Treaty of Versailles and the eastern borders it had imposed on Germany. Rothfels advocated German domination of Eastern Europe and making its population into serfs. As a historian, his major interests were Otto von Bismarck, Clausewitz, and later on, the conservative German opposition to Adolf Hitler. A major interest of Rothfels in the 1920s was his belief in the obsolescence of the nation-state, and the need for a \"loosening up\" of the Versailles borders through increased protection of minorities. Rothfels promoted an idea of race classification based on readiness of non-German ethnic groups in Eastern Europe to submit themselves to rule of German Third Reich The Eastern and Southeastern nationalities were to be \"restructured\" and integrated with German \"master race\". Non-Germans would have been subject to hierarchical employment conditions and essentially have status of indentured workers, based on racist criteria Those living outside the \"German sphere\" were to be classified by hierarchy based on their \"cultural heritage\" and ruled under direction of Germans and a vassal class that would collaborated with them.\n\nAlthough supportive of right-wing politics (according to some, he might have voted for Hitler in 1932), he was subject to increasing persecution, being Jewish by birth. Eventually, Rothfels was forced to leave his university position due to his Jewish ancestry, despite intervention by Hermann Rauschning the Nazi president of Danzig Senate and Theodor Oberlander, director of League of German East (Bund der Deutschen Osten) and NSDAP's East Prussian intelligence agency and forbidden to teach a year later. While Rothfels tried to get an honorary Aryan status with support by Joachim von Ribbentrop, his efforts were fruitless. Subject to increasing persecution and discrimination by the State, he reluctantly left Germany in 1938 for Britain. What decided the issue for him was his experience during the Kristallnacht pogrom when his house was looted and trashed by the SA and he himself was arrested and held by the Gestapo for several hours, during which he was deprived of his crutches and beaten up. Together with his wife and their three children, Rothfels left for the United Kingdom, where he hastily began to learn English, a language that he subsequently mastered.\n\nAfter teaching at St. John's College, Oxford from 1938 to 1940, Rothfels was interned on the Isle of Man. During this time his only known publication was an essay from 1940 in which he discussed Soviet and German interaction in the Baltics. Rothfels defended German hegemony over this \"outpost of Western Europe and Western civilization\" and complained about resettlement of Germans there due to Soviet-Nazi treaties. Rothfels left for the United States, where he stayed until 1951, and took U.S. citizenship. He taught at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island and at the University of Chicago in Chicago, Illinois where he became a professor. Considering his views at that time, a Jewish-German student was surprised that Rothfels was forced to leave Germany in the first place. During his time in the United States, he befriended the American publisher Henry Regnery and became actively involved in the Republican Party.\n\nIn an essay published in 1943, in the book \"The Makers of Modern Strategy\" on Clausewitz, has been praised by Michael Howard as the first serious essay ever published on Clausewitz in English. In his essay, Rothfels argued that Clausewitz's military theories were more sophisticated than the \"Mahdi of Mass\" interpretation of Clausewitz that had been popularized by such historians as Sir Basil Liddell Hart. Rothfels argued that it was inappropriate to view Clausewitz in the context of later events; instead Rothfels insisted on understanding Clausewitz and his theory of war in the context of the Napoleonic Wars and on understanding the Clausewitz the man as the key to understanding Clausewitz the military thinker. Rothfels maintained Clausewitz's personality, social background, war experience, and his schooling all needed to be understood to properly appreciate his theories about war. Most notably, Rothfels portrayed Clausewitz as a man under considerable psychological strain caused by his commoner background in the largely aristocratic Prussian Army. Through Rothfels contended that aspects of \"Vom Krieg\" were outdated due to advances in military technology and tactics, nonetheless, Rothfels felt that Clausewitz was the most important military philiosopher of all time. The U.S. military historian Peter Paret has differed with some of Rothfels's interpretation of Clausewitz, but acknowledged Rothfels as a major influence on his work on Clausewitz.\n\nIn 1948, Rothfels published his most famous book, \"The German Opposition To Hitler\", which celebrated those conservatives who attempted the July 20 Plot of 1944, which was based upon a lecture given at the University of Chicago in 1947. Rothfels, who remained a steadfast German nationalist all his life, saw the conspirators against the National Socialist regime as representative of all that was best about German life and argued that the actions of the conspirators had restored Germany's honour from the disgrace the Nazis had brought upon it. Rothfels accepted Edmund Burke's idea that the best defenders of liberty come from the upper crust of society and cast the men and women of July 20 as a perfect example of Burke's theory. Rothfels claimed that the German opposition was motivated by the highest possible ethical and moral considerations, and asserted that there were no self-interested motives whatsoever amongst the men and women of the July 20. Rothfels argued that the actions of the July 20 conspirators were motivated a sense of \"noblesse oblige\", devotion to the principles of Christianity and the highest form of patriotism. Rothfels was fond of pointing out the difficulties involved in attempting to overthrow one's government in war-time, which in Rothfels view, was a sign of the true patriotism of the July 20 conspirators.\n\nRothfels saw Nazism as a type of totalitarianism, and often argued that there was no moral difference between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union; in his view, the Cold War was merely a continuation of the struggle between what he called the \"conservative freedom movement\" and totalitarian forces. In particular, Rothfels was opposed to any sort of \"Sonderweg\" interpretation of German history, and argued that Nazism was the result of the general problems of modern civilization, which Rothfels saw as based on a set of values that were overtly materialistic, secular, and dehumanizing, and which had reduced most people to a mindless mass. Rothfels wrote \"In many respects, Nationals can be considered as the final summit of an extreme consequence of the secularization movemement of the nineteenth century\". In Rothfels's view, the values of modern mass civilization had led most people to forget the fundamental values of the West, which in his opinion were based on respect for God and the individual. Rothfels argued that \"Modern mass civilization generates a reservoir of evil forces whose release spells barbarism...What triumphed after the pseudo-legal revolution of 1933 was in fact and to a great extent the dark forces forming the sedimment of every modern society\". Rothfels argued that the Nazis came to power as a result of a series of unfortunate developments that had occurred in \"Germany\" after World War I such as the Great Inflation of 1923 and the Great Depression, and often criticized those in his view promoted the view that sought to equate \"Deutschum\" with Nazism such as Sir Lewis Bernstein Namier, William L. Shirer, A.J.P. Taylor and Sir John Wheeler-Bennett. Moreover, far from Nazism being rooted in German traditions, Rothfels claimed that the strongest opposition to Nazism came from those grounded in traditional values. In Rothfels's opinion, \"the traditions of a genuine 'Prussian militarism'\" provived the principle \"bulwark against nationalistic and demagogic excesses\". \"The German Opposition to Hitler\" ended with a call for people all over the West to embrace what Rothfels regarded as the noble ideas of the conservative opponents of Nazism, which Rothfels saw as leading to back to the higher values of the West.\n\n\"The German Opposition To Hitler\" was a controversial book because Rothfels focused his attention largely on anti-Nazis on the Right and for the most part ignored anti-Nazis on the Left. In addition, many felt that the book was a hagiographical treatment of anti-Nazi conservatives. His motive in writing the book was in part to prevent the emergence of a new stab-in-the-back legend that might once again undermine democracy in Germany. He was dismayed by public opinion polls taken immediately after World War II in the American zone of occupation that showed the majority of Germans had a low opinion of the men and women involved in the July 20 plot. Rothfels was determined that Germans should see them as heroes, not villains.\n\nIn 1951, Rothfels returned to West Germany, where he taught at the University of Tübingen. He worked hard for the rest of his life to exonerate German nationalism from the taint of Nazism. Upon his return to Germany, Rothfels founded the \"Institut für Zeitgeschichte\" (Institute for Contemporary History), an historical study center devoted to the Nazi period. The institute's journal, the \"Vierteljahrshefte für Zeitgeschichte\" (Journal for Contemporary History) has become one of the world's leading periodicals for the study of Nazi Germany. Within a few years, the \"Vierteljahrshefte für Zeitgeschichte\" had the highest circulation of any historical journal in West Germany. During the 1950s, Rothfels was one of the few German historians who attempted a serious examination of the Holocaust, which was a subject that most German historians preferred to ignore during that decade. In particular, he broke new ground by publishing Kurt Gerstein's reports relating to the Final Solution in the first edition of the \"Vierteljahrshefte für Zeitgeschichte\" in 1953 and another article in 1959 that examined the plight of Polish Jewry under Nazi rule.\nIn his works Rothfels aimed at minimising the German hostility to Jews, while highlighting any attempts to save them by German individuals. Crimes and support for anti-semitism were downplayed, and opposition to racial discrimination portrayed by Rothfels as dominant. As such his text produced a vision of history in which for example the 1930s were virtually absent from anti-semitism, and non-Jewish Germans were completely willing to help Jews.\n\nAfter his return to Germany, Rothfels was a pioneer of contemporary history, the study of the \"epoch of those who lived at the time\" to use Rothfels's words. In Rothfels's view, contemporary history was the study of the recent past, where despite or rather because the lack of documentation caused by studying events so close to the past and the challenge of writing about events that one experienced oneself, required special patience, skill and ability of the part of the historian. In particular, Rothfels called for historians working in the field of contemporary history to approach matters in an objective and neutral matter while keeping in mind the moral questions. In practice, contemporary history came to refer history from 1914 on.\n\nAfter his return to Germany, Rothfels took a strong stand against those whose work he felt could exonerate the Nazis. In 1954, he and one of his star pupils from the University of Chicago, Gerhard Weinberg had a renowned debate on the pages of \"Vierteljahrshefte für Zeitgeschichte\" with Andreas Hillgruber and Hans-Günther Seraphim over the issue of whether the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 had been a \"preventive war\" forced on Adolf Hitler by the possibility of Soviet attack on Germany. Hillgruber and Seraphim argued for the \"preventive war\" thesis while Rothfels and Weinberg opposed it, arguing that it was Nazi racial theories that were the origins of the German invasion of the Soviet Union. The majority opinion was that Rothfels and Weinberg destroyed Seraphim's and Hillgruber's arguments. Indeed, Hillgruber himself did a volte-face and renounced his former thesis as mistaken. Later, in 1961, Rothfels took a strong stand against the American neo-Nazi historian David Hoggan who claimed that the outbreak of war in 1939 had been due to an Anglo-Polish conspiracy against Germany. Also in 1961, Rothfels assisted Weinberg with the publication of Adolf Hitler's \"Zweites Buch\" which Weinberg had discovered in 1958, and for which Rothfels wrote the introduction.\n\nAnother area of interest for Rothfels was the expulsion of the ethnic German population from Eastern Europe after World War II. In the 1950s, Rothfels worked with Theodor Schieder, Werner Conze and other historians to produce the multi-volume \"Documentation of the Expulsion of Germans from East Central Europe\". Many later prominent historians such as Martin Broszat, Hans-Ulrich Wehler and Hans Mommsen were involved in this project.\n\nIn his lifetime and since his death, Rothfels has been a very controversial figure. Many see him as apologist for the anti-democratic German Right, and in particular, his attitude towards the Weimar Republic has recently been the subject of controversy in Germany. The historian Ingo Haar in his 2000 book \"Historiker im Nationalsozialismus\" called Rothfels an enemy of the Weimar Republic and a Nazi sympathizer. The historian Heinrich August Winkler has strongly criticized Haar, who had erroneously used a radio address Rothfels gave in 1930 praising Friedrich Ebert, Gustav Stresemann, and Paul von Hindenburg as great German leaders as a proof for Rothfels' support of Hitler. While Haar had implied the speech dates from 1933 and was addressed to Hitler after he took over power in Germany, Winkler verified the actual circumstances of the speech, which Rothfels repeated several times prior to 1933. Rothfels's critics contend that his planned 1933 radio address was too little, too late.\n\nRothfels and his inner circle at Königsberg in the early 1930s are often referred to as the \"Königsberg circle\" (). Its most prominent members, apart from Rothfels himself, were his students Theodor Schieder and Werner Conze. Whereas Rothfels had to emigrate, Schieder and Conze joined the NSDAP. They were active in the field of Ostforschung, where they supported ideas such as 'dejewification' (). After Rothfels' return the three became leading figures among the historians of the newly founded West Germany. They soon found themselves together in a commission led by Schieder that was set up by the government for documenting the expulsion of Germans after World War II.\nIn 1998 the 42nd \"Deutscher Historikertag\" marked the beginning of a public debate among German historians about the \"brown history\" of their field.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932831", "title": "Simplemente Mujer", "text": "Simplemente Mujer\n\nSimplemente Mujer: A 1984 album by Vikki Carr that won a Grammy Award for Best Mexican-American Recording. The album produced a hit single in the song \"Ni Princesa, Ni Esclava\". This was Carr's first recording with mariachi accompaniment. Label: Sony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932832", "title": "Wisteria floribunda", "text": "Wisteria floribunda\n\nWisteria floribunda (common name Japanese wisteria) is a species of flowering plant in the pea family Fabaceae, native to Japan. Growing to , it is a woody, deciduous twining climber. It was brought from Japan to the United States in 1830's. Since then, it has become one of the most highly romanticized flowering garden plants. It is also a common subject for bonsai, along with \"Wisteria sinensis\" (Chinese wisteria).\n\nThe flowering habit of Japanese wisteria is perhaps the most spectacular of the \"Wisteria\" genus. It sports the longest flower racemes of any wisteria; they can reach nearly half a meter in length. These racemes burst into great trails of clustered white, pink, violet, or blue flowers in early- to mid-spring. The flowers carry a distinctive fragrance similar to that of grapes. The early flowering time of Japanese wisteria can cause problems in temperate climates, where early frosts can destroy the coming years' flowers. It will also flower only after passing from juvenile to adult stage, a transition that may take many years just like its cousin Chinese wisteria.\n\nJapanese wisteria can grow over 30m long over many supports via powerful clockwise-twining stems. The foliage consists of shiny, dark-green, pinnately compound leaves 10–30 cm in length. The leaves bear 9-13 oblong leaflets that are each 2–6 cm long. It also bears numerous poisonous, brown, velvety, bean-like seed pods 5–10 cm long that mature in summer and persist until winter. Japanese wisteria prefers moist soils and full sun in USDA plant hardiness zones 5-9. The plant often lives over fifty years.\n\nThose marked have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932840", "title": "Cosas del Amor (Vikki Carr album)", "text": "Cosas del Amor (Vikki Carr album)\n\nCosas del Amor was a 1991 album by Vikki Carr that won a Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Recording. The album produced the hit single, \"Cosas del Amor\", written by Rudy Perez & Roberto Livi, which reached No. 1 on the U.S. Latin charts for more than two months. The album also reached No. 1, where it stayed for one month. In the United States, this is her most successful Spanish-language disc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932841", "title": "Ivo Miro Jović", "text": "Ivo Miro Jović\n\nIvo Miro Jović (born 15 July 1950) is a Bosnian politician and former Croat member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's tripartite Presidency, appointed to the post in Parliament on 9 May 2005 following the sacking of Dragan Čović by the High Representative on charges of corruption. He served until 6 November 2006.\n\nAfter he had graduated as a history teacher from the University of Sarajevo, Jović worked as a teacher in Ilijaš and Kiseljak. He became active in politics in 1997, as the Croatian Democratic Union had proposed him for a government position in the Central Bosnia Canton. In 1999, Jović entered the federal government, as Vice Minister of Culture, where he remained until 2001.\n\nFollowing the general elections of 2002, Jović was elected as a representative for his party in the House of Representatives of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. His most recent foreign appearance was at the 2005 World Summit in New York. On 1 October 2006, he was defeated in race for the Croat member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nIn 2013, Jović was appointed as an advisor to then Deputy Defence Minister Marina Pendeš. In 2015, she was charged by the State Prosecutor's Office for paying him a salary despite him not showing up to work. In February 2016, she was acquitted by the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the charges.\n\nJović is fluent in German, married and father of three children.\n"}
{"id": "1932846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932846", "title": "Albert Odyssey: Legend of Eldean", "text": "Albert Odyssey: Legend of Eldean\n\nAlbert Odyssey: Legend of Eldean is a role-playing video game produced by Sunsoft for the Sega Saturn. It was originally made for the Super NES, and ported to the Saturn late in its development. Released in Japan in August 1996, the game was made available in North America in July 1997 by Working Designs.\n\n\"Legend of Eldean\" is the first \"Albert Odyssey\" title to be released in English, as well as the first to feature traditional turn-based role-playing elements as opposed to tactical, strategy-based gameplay. It was created as a \"gaiden\", or sidestory to the original titles, and contains back story, characters, and plot that are independent from earlier games in the series. The North American version received mixed reviews.\n\n\"Albert Odyssey: Legend of Eldean\" is a traditional RPG, with an overhead perspective and combat based around the selecting of character actions from menus.\n\nThe game follows the adventure of Pike, a teenage boy whose family was murdered by a horde of monsters while still an infant, and is raised by a family of winged humanoids known as Harpies. Ten years later, his adoptive sister is turned to stone by an evil mage. Together with Cirrus, a talking sword housing the spirit of one of the legendary Eldean siblings, Pike travels the world to search for a cure, and discovers a plot by a group of evil magicians to turn the world's races against each other and revive the ancient god Vlag. Together with the help of friends he meets along his journey, Pike must prevent the evil's resurrection.\n\n\nThe characters were all designed by Toshiyuki Kubooka. \"Albert Odyssey: Legend of Eldean\" was originally developed for the Super NES, but when plans for this release fell through, the game was ported to the Saturn, with the chief alteration between the platforms being the addition of an orchestrated soundtrack.\n\nUnlike most Japanese RPGs of the time, \"Albert Odyssey: Legend of Eldean\" makes little use of voice acting or cinematics, presenting most of its story through text.\n\nThe music of \"Legend of Eldean\" was composed by in-house Sunsoft composer Naoki Kodaka, who wrote the score for the two previous \"Albert Odyssey\" titles. Background music consists of a combination of built-in synth from the Sega Saturn's internal sound chip and live instrumentation recorded at Japan's Music Farm Studio. Selected tracks were presented using CD-quality pulse-code modulation as opposed to sequenced, MIDI-based audio, resulting in fuller, more realistic sound.\n\nOn March 21, 1996, Sunsoft released an official soundtrack to the game in Japan published by Pony Canyon Records. The album consists of two discs, with the first fourteen tracks on disc one consisting of the live-recorded songs used in the game. Disc two contains a bonus sound effect digest featuring sound and voice clips used in the Japanese version, as well as two arranged tracks including the normal battle theme and end title.\n\n\"Legend of Eldean\" sold well during its original release in Japan, with the game moving enough copies to qualify for Sega's \"Saturn Collection\" distinction and was re-released in June 1997 at a budget price.\n\nThe game received largely middling reviews in North America. An exception was \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\", where critic Dan Hsu remarked that the game was \"not only beautiful (both musically and graphically), it has one of the best, most involving story lines seen in an RPG\", calling the game's dialogue \"witty\" and awarding it an Editor's Choice Silver Award. \"GameSpot\" stated that \"Although there are better RPGs out there, Albert Odyssey delivers where it counts\", commending Working Designs for their script as well as several gameplay improvements made to the North American release, but found much of the game's design to be \"unimaginative\". \"Game Players\" called the game a \"worthwhile venture\" and found that the town and dungeon graphics' \"subtle detailing and rich colors are beautiful things\", but declared that the overworld graphics and spell effects were lacking, calling them \"disappointingly bland, lacking any visual depth\". \"GameFan\" conversely declared that the in-battle graphics were \"very nice\", yet found fault in the game's slow pacing and dated presentation, especially when compared to newer, more cinematic role-playing games.\n\n\"GamePro\" stated that \"Although \"Albert Odyssey\" materializes on the Saturn with a fun cast of characters, a soothing soundtrack, and a compelling story line, the lack of solid gameplay and overall shortness of the adventure banish this RPG to the realm of rentals.\" They compared it unfavorably to \"Shining the Holy Ark\", which was released in the U.S. the same month as \"Albert Odyssey\". \"Game Informer\" criticized the slow pace of the gameplay, the monotonous battles, and the lack of any standout aspect, but concluded that \"Even if you don't even like RPG's[sic] Albert Odyssey warrants a rental at the very least. The laughs you'll get out of it are worth more than a couple of bucks.\" \"Next Generation\" stated that \"The magic spells and combat engine are not just slow and unimpressive, but downright painful to look at. ... Luckily, Working Designs polished up the storyline and text to make the game seem more valuable and made a valiant effort to make the most of a regrettably forgettable game.\" However, he recommended that Saturn-owning Working Designs fans instead hold out for their upcoming release of \"\". IGN also compared the game to future Working Designs titles, calling it \"more of a mild appetizer for \"Lunar\" and \"Magic Knight Rayearth\" - it'll hold you over, but it's not a satisfying meal in itself\", nonetheless calling the game \"pretty good\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932856", "title": "Brindo a La Vida, Al Bolero, A Ti", "text": "Brindo a La Vida, Al Bolero, A Ti\n\nBrindo a La Vida, Al Bolero, A Ti is a 1992 album by Vikki Carr that was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Recording. The album produced a hit single in the song \"Dejame\". It was published under the Sony label.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932861", "title": "Emociones (Vikki Carr album)", "text": "Emociones (Vikki Carr album)\n\nEmociones is a 1996 album by American vocalist Vikki Carr. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Recording. The album, which was released on the Polygram label, is a tribute to songwriters Manuel Alejandro and Roberto Carlos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932863", "title": "Exile (1988 video game series)", "text": "Exile (1988 video game series)\n\nThe \"Exile\" series centers on Sadler, a Syrian Assassin, who is the main character of each game. The original computer versions were notorious for featuring various references to religious historical figures, modern political leaders, iconography, drugs, and time-traveling assassins, although some of these aspects were considerably toned down or omitted in the later console games, with the English versions rewriting all the historical religious organizations into fictional groups.\n\n, the first game in the series, was originally released for the NEC PC-8801 on July 1988. It was subsequently released for the MSX2 and NEC PC-9801 on August and for the X1 turbo on September. The gameplay included action-platform elements, switching between an overhead perspective and side-scrolling sections. The plot of the original \"XZR\" has been compared to the later \"Assassin's Creed\" video game series. The soundtrack for the PC-8801 version was composed by Yujiroh, Shinobu Ogawa and Tenpei Sato.\n\nThe game centers on Sadler, a Syrian Assassin (a Shia Islamic sect) who is on a journey to kill the Caliph. The intro sequence briefly covers the history of the Middle East from 622 CE, the first year of the Islamic calendar, including a brief description of the Hijra, up until 1104 CE, the year of Sadler's birth. The game then starts in Baghdad, where Sadler rescues Rumi, and follows Sadler to Persia and then Babylon, where he must defend the Euphrates River from pollution by an oil magnate, encounter the Assyrian queen Semiramis and Babylonian goddess Ishtar, and visit the Tower of Babel in search of unicorns, before heading to Alexandria, becoming baptised in a Jewish village, and searching for Ouroboros. Eventually, Sadler makes his way back to Baghdad and murders the Caliph. It is then revealed that the Caliph was his father and they were separated when Sadler was kidnapped as a baby by the Assassins. The game then switches focus and enters a subplot about a Mongol invasion before Sadler is warped to the 20th century, where he must assassinate Russia's General Secretary and America's President, ending the game.\n\nLikely because of its controversial ending, Telenet chose not to port the original \"XZR\" when they decided to bring the series to home consoles three years later, opting to remake the sequel instead.\n\n was released on December 17, 1988 for the NEC PC-8801, NEC PC-9801, and MSX2. The soundtrack for the PC-8801 version was once again composed by Shinobu Ogawa and Tenpei Sato.\n\n\"XZR II\" depicts the further adventures of Sadler after the events of the previous game. Now living in the time of the Christian Crusades, Sadler makes an attempt to unite the world under one God and achieve world peace. Along the way, he performs a Masonic ritual in an attempt to revive Mani, and slaughters many Hindu and Buddhist deities. Sadler meets the head of the Knights Templar, Hugues de Payens, and helps him search for the Holimax, a holy artefact. Sadler travels to several different countries, including France (where Rumi is kidnapped), India, Cambodia, and Japan. In a Cambodian temple, Sadler resurrects the Manichaean prophet Mani. In Japan, Sadler rescues Ninkan, who in real life was head of Japanese sex cult Tachikawa-ryu. Afterwards, Sadler travels back in time to Eden and meets Bacchus. Sadler also murders Hiram Abiff, a Masonic figure. After defeating Jubelum of the Three Ruffians, Sadler receives the Holimax.\n\n, the first console installment of the series, was first released for the PC Engine CD-ROM² System on March 29, 1991. A Mega Drive version was released during the same year on December 6. Both versions of the game were released in North America the following year, with the Genesis version published by Renovation Products and the TurboGrafx-CD version published by Working Designs. \"Exile\" is a remake of \"XZR II\" which rewrites most of the story, cutting one portion of the final act in which Sadler time travels to the present day (as it referenced the ending to the original \"XZR\"), and removes the character of Sufrawaldhi, Sadler's fourth traveling companion.\n\nThe Genesis version removed scenes deemed inappropriate, such as a burning village and instances of naked women in the later areas. Working Designs was asked by NEC to change some of the names in the TurboGrafx-CD version, concerned about the religious and drug-related elements. \"Hence, the Christian Crusaders became the Klispin Crusaders. Given the rules from NEC, it was a pretty sensitive subject, so direct references had to be changed\", explained Vic Ireland, who worked closely with the game's localization. A town of crucified heretics being burned alive was left in the TurboGrafx-CD release, but removed from the Genesis version.\n\n, the final game in the series, was released in Japan for the Super CD-ROM² add-on on September 22, 1992. It was released in North America on July 31, 1993, once again published by Working Designs. While the previous games featured heavy religious elements, Sadler is now striving to defeat chaos and solve the mystery of an ancient tower.\n\nThe game's cover art featured a photograph, a rarity for North America, of the game's final boss, handcrafted. Vic Ireland commented on it, saying that \"The Exile 2 cover is polarizing. People love it or hate it. It's basically aping a style of diorama that was really popular to advertise games in Japan. NCS/MASAYA did quite a bit of it, and I wanted to bring that to the US as well. So, I chose Exile 2 as the game to try this on. The practical effects guy who did the little models on the set in the ad, had done FX work for movies like \"Tremors\" and has since done work for WETA in Australia. The smoke was a time exposure to give it a thickness and glow. When we ran the ad, EGM or Gamepro (I can't remember) sent us a survey they did months later with their readers that had that ad listed as the 'most remembered' ad from the whole magazine, which, I think, justified the experiment. We tried it again for \"Vasteel\", but the results weren't that great, so we only used part of one of the space scenes on the back cover of the jewel case.\"\n\nThe protagonist of the series is Sadler (voiced by Kaneto Shiozawa in the Japanese CD-ROM version and by Blake Dorsey in English), a young warrior from the village of Assassi who excels in swordsmanship and martial arts. His companions include Rumi (voiced by Yūko Minaguchi in Japanese and Rhonda Gibson in English), a female fellow warrior from Assassi skilled in acrobatics and espionage; Fakhyle (voiced by Kōji Yada in Japanese and Keith Lack in English), an elderly magician who lends his powers to Sadler; and Kindhy (voiced by Hirohiko Kakegawa in Japanese and by an unknown actor in English), a silent giant with unmatched superhuman strength.\n\nThe \"XZR\"/\"Exile\" series are action role-playing games consisting of three types of play modes: the hideout screens, the RPG screens, and the action screens. The hideout screen consists of a menu in which the player can plan out Sadler's next course of actions by viewing his current companions, belongings, and stats, before choosing the next location to visit. The game switches to RPG mode when the player visits a town, which consists of an overhead map that the player must explore in order to gather clues and proceed through the story. This usually consists of talking to supporting characters to fulfill any tasks they give in order to gain access to new locations. The player can also visit various types of shops to buy new equipment and items. When the player enters a dungeon, the game switches to a side-scrolling action stage in which Sadler must fight his way through enemies, finding treasure chests along the way, until achieving an objective or finding an exit. While Sadler fights primarily with his sword, he can also use magic spells once he acquires the ability to do so. Like in most action RPGs, Sadler gains a certain amount of cash and experience points for every enemy he kills. In addition to HP (hit points) and MP (magic points), two more statistics are represented on screen: AP (attack power, the player's offensive capabilities) and AC (armor class, the player's defensive capabilities), which are determined by Sadler's current level and equipment.\n\nOne notable aspect in the original computer versions are the presence of illicit drugs. In addition to conventional items such as a potions and medical herbs, Sadler also uses narcotics such as hashish, coca, opiates, LSD, marijuana and peyote to heal himself or increase other attributes. The player's AP and AC statistics (represented by a heart-rate graph in the computer versions and green bars in the console version) are affected by the drugs Sadlers uses. Overusing certain drugs would result in side effects, including death. \"Exile\", the console version of \"XRZ II\", replaced most of the illicit drugs with fictionalized equivalents (e.g. Opiates became Heartpoisons), that lack the negative side effects of their original counterparts.\n\n\"Exile: Wicked Phenomenon\" revamps several aspects of the previous games, ditching the hideout screens and adding the option to switch between Sadler or any of his companions (Rumi, Kindi and Fakhyle) during action segments, using each of their unique abilities. \"Wicked Phenomenon\" also brings back all the illicit narcotics missing in the original \"Exile\", with the English version of the game using altered spellings for their names (e.g. cannabis became \"cananavis\"). While the AP and AC gauges are no longer present on the HUD (which instead shows the player's health, experience points and cash), the player can still use drugs to temporarily enhance their offensive and defensive stats.\n\n\"Exile\" was named one of \"Renovation's Top 10 Games\" on IGN. Levi Buchanan of IGN stated that \"the translation in the Genesis edition is pretty bad, but that has little effect on the breadth of the adventure itself.\" The game was also featured in a positive light in the book \"The 8-Bit Book – 1981 to 199x\" by Jerry Ellis.\n\n\"Exile: Wicked Phenomenon\" was given a decent review from John Huxley at defunctgames.com. He wrote that \"Exile is a solid game that successfully marries action and role-playing\", but said that it was not as deep of an adventure as Ys I & II. He also mentioned that the voiceovers are \"terrific\", only complaining that the graphics in the cutscenes are \"a little thin.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1932875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932875", "title": "Three wise monkeys", "text": "Three wise monkeys\n\nThe three wise monkeys are a Japanese pictorial maxim, embodying the proverbial principle \"see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil\". The three monkeys are Mizaru, covering his eyes, who sees no evil; Kikazaru, covering his ears, who hears no evil and Iwazaru, covering his mouth, who speaks no evil. \n\nLafcadio Hearn refers to them as the three mystic apes.\n\nThere are various meanings ascribed to the monkeys and the proverb including associations with being of good mind, speech and action. The phrase is often used to refer to those who deal with impropriety by turning a blind eye.\n\nOutside Japan the monkeys' names are sometimes given as \"Mizaru\", \"Mikazaru\" and \"Mazaru\", as the last two names were corrupted from the Japanese originals. The monkeys are Japanese macaques, a common species in Japan.\n\nThe source that popularized this pictorial maxim is a 17th-century carving over a door of the famous Tōshō-gū shrine in Nikkō, Japan. The carvings at Tōshō-gū Shrine were carved by Hidari Jingoro, and believed to have incorporated Confucius’s Code of Conduct, using the monkey as a way to depict man’s life cycle. There are a total of eight panels, and the iconic three wise monkeys picture comes from panel 2. The philosophy, however, probably originally came to Japan with a Tendai-Buddhist legend, from China in the 8th century (Nara Period). It has been suggested that the figures represent the three dogmas of the so-called middle school of the sect.\n\nIn Chinese, a similar phrase exists in the late \"Analects of Confucius\" from 2nd to 4th century B.C.: \"Look not at what is contrary to propriety; listen not to what is contrary to propriety; speak not what is contrary to propriety; make no movement which is contrary to propriety\" (). It may be this phrase that inspired the pictorial maxim after it was brought into Japan.\n\nIt is through the Kōshin rite of folk religion that the most significant examples are presented. The Kōshin belief or practice is a Japanese folk religion with Chinese Taoism origins and ancient Shinto influence. It was founded by Tendai Buddhist monks in the late 10th century. A considerable number of stone monuments can be found all over the eastern part of Japan around Tokyo. During the later part of the Muromachi period, it was customary to display stone pillars depicting the three monkeys during the observance of Kōshin.\n\nThough the teaching had nothing to do with monkeys, the concept of the three monkeys originated from a simple play on words. The saying in Japanese is , where the \"-zaru\" is a negative conjugation on the three verbs, matching \"zaru\", the modified form of \"monkey\" used in compounds. Thus the saying (which does not include any specific reference to \"evil\") can also be interpreted as referring to three monkeys.\n\nThe shrine at Nikko is a Shinto shrine, and the monkey is an extremely important being in the Shinto religion. The monkey is believed to be the messenger of the Hie Shinto shrines, which also have connections with Tendai Buddhism. There are even important festivals that are celebrated during the year of the Monkey (occurring every twelve years) and a special festival is celebrated every sixteenth year of the Kōshin.\n\n\"The Three Mystic Apes\" (Sambiki Saru) were described as \"the attendants of Saruta Hito no Mikoto or Kōshin, the God of the Roads\". The Kōshin festival was held on the 60th day of the calendar. It has been suggested that during the Kōshin festival, according to old beliefs, one's bad deeds might be reported to heaven \"unless avoidance actions were taken…\". It has been theorized that the three Mystic Apes, Not Seeing, Hearing, or Speaking, may have been the \"things that one has done wrong in the last 59 days\".\n\nAccording to other accounts, the monkeys caused the \"Sanshi\" and \"Ten-Tei\" not to see, say or hear the bad deeds of a person. The are the Three Corpses living in everyone's body. The Sanshi keep track of the good deeds and particularly the bad deeds of the person they inhabit. Every 60 days, on the night called , if the person sleeps, the Sanshi will leave the body and go to , the Heavenly God, to report about the deeds of that person. Ten-Tei will then decide to punish bad people, making them ill, shortening their time alive, and in extreme cases putting an end to their lives. Those believers of Kōshin who have reason to fear will try to stay awake during Kōshin nights. This is the only way to prevent the Sanshi from leaving their body and reporting to Ten-Tei.\n\nAn ancient representation of the \"no see, no hear, no say, no do\" can be found in four golden figurines in the Zelnik Istvan Southeast Asian Gold Museum. These golden statues date from the 6th to 8th century. The figures look like tribal human people with not very precise body carvings and strong phallic symbols. This set indicates that the philosophy comes from very ancient roots.\n\nJust as there is disagreement about the origin of the phrase, there are differing explanations of the meaning of \"see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil\".\n\nSometimes there is a fourth monkey depicted, Shizaru, who symbolizes the principle of \"do no evil\", which fits with the full quote from Analects of Confucius. The monkey may be shown crossing his arms or covering his genitals. Yet another variation has the fourth monkey hold its nose to avoid a stench and has been dubbed \"smell no evil\" accordingly.\nThe opposite version of the three wise monkeys can also be found. In this case, one monkey holds its hands to its eyes to focus vision, the second monkey cups its hands around its ears to improve hearing, and the third monkey holds its hands to its mouth like a bullhorn. Those three monkeys might be considered unwise, but the fact that they intentionally select what they perceive is proof of wisdom, free will, and altruism. \"Hear, see, and speak only good\". It's the positive version of the three wise monkeys. Another modern interpretation is \"Hear, see, and speak out loud for what you stand for\".\nAccording to Osho Rajneesh, the monkey symbolism originated in ancient Hindu tradition and Buddhist monks spread this symbolism across Asia. The original Hindu and Buddhist version has four monkeys and the fourth monkey covers his genitals. The Buddhist version means this as \"Don't do anything evil\".\n\nIn Hindu original version the meaning of the fourth monkey is totally different from the popular Buddhist version. It means, \"Hide your pleasures. Hide your enjoyment, don't show it to anybody.\"\n\nOsho Rajneesh gave his own meaning regarding this. The first monkey denotes 'Don't listen to the truth because it will disturb all your consoling lies'. The second monkey denotes 'Don't look at the truth; otherwise your God will be dead and your heaven and hell will disappear'. The third monkey denotes 'Don't speak the truth, otherwise you will be condemned, crucified, poisoned, tortured by the whole crowd, the unconscious people. The fourth monkey denotes \"Keep your pleasures, your joys, hidden. Don't let anybody know that you are a cheerful man, a blissful man, an ecstatic man, because that will destroy your very life. It is dangerous\".\n\nThe three wise monkeys, and the associated proverb, are known throughout Asia and outside Asia. They have been a motif in pictures, such as the ukiyo-e (Japanese woodblock printings) by Keisai Eisen, and are frequently represented in modern culture.\n\nMahatma Gandhi's one notable exception to his lifestyle of non-possession was a small statue of the three monkeys - Bapu, Ketan and Bandar. Today, a larger representation of the three monkeys is prominently displayed at the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, where Gandhi lived from 1915 to 1930 and from where he departed on his famous salt march. Gandhi's statue also inspired a 2008 artwork by Subodh Gupta, \"Gandhi's Three Monkeys\".\n\nThe three monkeys are depicted in the trial scene in the 1968 \"Planet of the Apes\". An example of semiotics, as the judges mimic the see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil monkeys.\n\nIn a spoof of this saying, Bob Dole quipped about a meeting of former US Presidents: \"Carter, Ford and Nixon: see no evil, hear no evil and evil.\" \n\nThe maxim inspired an award-winning 2008 Turkish film by director Nuri Bilge Ceylan called \"Three Monkeys\" (\"Üç Maymun\").\nUnicode provides emoji representations of the monkeys in the Emoticons block as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932876", "title": "Bulletproofing", "text": "Bulletproofing\n\nBulletproofing is the process of making something capable of stopping a bullet or similar high velocity projectiles e.g. shrapnel. The term bullet resistance is often preferred because few, if any, practical materials provide complete protection against all types of bullets, or multiple hits in the same location, or simply sufficient kinetic (movement) energy to overcome it.\n\nIn 1887, George E. Goodfellow, of Tombstone, Arizona, documented three cases where bullets had failed to penetrate silk articles of clothing. He described the shooting death of Charlie Storms by gambler Luke Short. Although shot in the heart, \"not a drop of blood\" exited Charlie Storms' wound. Goodfellow found though the bullet did indeed kill Charlie Storms, it failed to pass through a silk handkerchief, essentially catching the bullet, but it was not enough to stop the bullet entirely. Another was the killing of Billy Grounds by Assistant City Marshal Billy Breakenridge.\n\nGoodfellow examined Billy and found that two buckshot grains had penetrated Billy's thick Mexican felt hat band embroidered with silver wire, penetrating his head and flattened against the posterior wall of the skull. Another of the grains had passed through two heavy wool shirts and a blanket-lined canvas coat and vest before coming to rest deep in his chest. But Goodfellow was fascinated to find in the folds of a Chinese silk neckerchief around Grounds' neck two shotgun pellets but no holes and no wounds.\n\nHe described a wound to Curly Bill Brocius who had been shot through the right side of the neck, narrowly missing his carotid artery. A portion of his silk neckerchief was carried into the wound by the bullet, preventing a more serious injury, but the scarf was undamaged. \"The Tombstone Epitaph\" reported, \"A silken armor may be the next invention.\"\n\nGoodfellow wrote an article for the \"Southern California Practitioner\" titled \"Notes on the Impenetrability of Silk to Bullets\". He experimented with designs for bullet-resistant clothing made of multiple layers of silk. By 1900, gangsters were wearing $800 silk vests to protect themselves.\n\nBullet-resistant body armor has been in use since about 1984. When law enforcement began wearing body armor, there was a dramatic drop in officer deaths, saving over 3,000 lives as a result. The National Institute of Justice first developed standards for ballistic resistant body armor in the 1970s. The standards have been revised five times since 1984. The National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center tests body armor to assess its compliance with the standards and publishes the results.\n\nBullet designs vary widely, not only according to the particular firearm used (e.g. a 9×19mm Parabellum caliber hollowpoint handgun cartridge will have inferior penetration power compared to a 7.62×39mm rifle cartridge), but also within individual cartridge designs. As a result, whilst so-called \"bullet-proof\" panels may successfully prevent penetration by standard 7.62×39mm bullets containing lead cores, the same panels may easily be defeated by 7.62×39mm armor-piercing bullets containing hardened steel penetrators.\n\nBullet-resistant materials (also called ballistic materials or, equivalently, anti-ballistic materials) are usually rigid, but may be supple. They may be complex, such as Kevlar, UHMWPE, Lexan, or carbon fiber composite materials, or they may be basic and simple, such as steel or titanium. Bullet resistant materials are often used in law enforcement and military applications, to protect personnel from death or serious injuries. In 2018, the US military began conducting research into the feasibility of using artificial silk as body armor.\n\nThere are various mandatory tests which items must pass before they can be classified as bullet-resistant. These tests specify the detailed characteristics of bullets which the material or object must be resistant to. For example, the U.S. National Institute of Justice standard 0104.04 for bullet-resistant vests specifies that a Type II vest must not deform clay representing the wearer's body when hit by an 8.0 g (124 gr) 9 mm caliber round nosed full-metal jacket bullet travelling at up to 358 m/s (1175 ft/s); but a Type IIIA vest is needed for protection against the same bullet travelling at up to 427 m/s (1400 ft/s). In both cases, the vest is not required to protect against a second hit within 51 mm (2 inches) of the first.\n"}
{"id": "1932886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932886", "title": "Salp", "text": "Salp\n\nA salp (plural salps) or salpa (plural salpae or salpas) is a barrel-shaped, planktic tunicate. It moves by contracting, thereby pumping water through its gelatinous body, one of the most efficient examples of jet propulsion in the animal kingdom. The salp strains the pumped water through its internal feeding filters, feeding on phytoplankton.\n\nSalps are common in equatorial, temperate, and cold seas, where they can be seen at the surface, singly or in long, stringy colonies. The most abundant concentrations of salps are in the Southern Ocean (near Antarctica), where they sometimes form enormous swarms, often in deep water, and are sometimes even more abundant than krill. Since 1910, while krill populations in the Southern Ocean have declined, salp populations appear to be increasing. Salps have been seen in increasing numbers along the coast of Washington.\n\nSalps have a complex life cycle, with an obligatory alternation of generations. Both portions of the life cycle exist together in the seas—they look quite different, but both are mostly transparent, tubular, gelatinous animals that are typically between tall. The solitary life history phase, also known as an oozooid, is a single, barrel-shaped animal that reproduces asexually by producing a chain of tens to hundreds of individuals, which are released from the parent at a small size.\n\nThe chain of salps is the 'aggregate' portion of the life cycle. The aggregate individuals are also known as blastozooids; they remain attached together while swimming and feeding, and each individual grows in size. Each blastozooid in the chain reproduces sexually (the blastozooids are sequential hermaphrodites, first maturing as females, and are fertilized by male gametes produced by older chains), with a growing embryo oozoid attached to the body wall of the parent. The growing oozoids are eventually released from the parent blastozooids, and then continue to feed and grow as the solitary asexual phase, closing the life cycle of salps. The alternation of generations allows for a fast generation time, with both solitary individuals and aggregate chains living and feeding together in the sea. When phytoplankton is abundant, this rapid reproduction leads to fairly short-lived blooms of salps, which eventually filter out most of the phytoplankton. The bloom ends when enough food is no longer available to sustain the enormous population of salps. Occasionally, mushroom corals and those of the genera \"Heteropsammia\" are known to feed on salps during blooms.\n\nThe incursion of a large number of salps (\"Salpa fusiformis\") into the North Sea in 1920 led to a failure of the Scottish herring fishery.\n\nOne reason for the success of salps is how they respond to phytoplankton blooms. When food is plentiful, salps can quickly bud off clones, which graze on the phytoplankton and can grow at a rate which is probably faster than that of any other multicellular animal, quickly stripping the phytoplankton from the sea. But if the phytoplankton is too dense, the salps can clog and sink to the bottom. During these blooms, beaches can become slimy with mats of salp bodies, and other planktonic species can experience fluctuations in their numbers due to competition with the salps.\n\nSinking fecal pellets and bodies of salps carry carbon to the seafloor, and salps are abundant enough to have an effect on the ocean's biological pump. Consequently, large changes in their abundance or distribution may alter the ocean's carbon cycle, and potentially play a role in climate change.\n\nSalps are closely related to the pelagic tunicate groups Doliolida and Pyrosoma, as well as to other bottom-living (benthic) tunicates.\n\nAlthough salps appear similar to jellyfish because of their simple body form and planktonic behavior, they are chordates: animals with dorsal nerve cords, related to vertebrates, animals with backbones. Some rare species appear bioluminescent and have different colored lights shooting through their mostly opulent bodies.\n\nThe World Register of Marine Species lists the following genera and species in the order Salpida:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932892", "title": "Padworth", "text": "Padworth\n\nPadworth is a lightly populated locality and civil parish in the English county of Berkshire, the nearest town to which is Tadley. Padworth is in the unitary authority of West Berkshire and its main settlement is at Aldermaston Wharf or Lower Padworth where it has Aldermaston railway station. It has its southern boundary with Mortimer West End, Hampshire. The south of the parish is wooded towards its edges and the north of the parish is agricultural with a hotel beside the Kennet and Avon Canal. In the centre of the parish is a school, Padworth College, which is a Georgian and later incarnation of its manor house.\n\nPadworth proper is around the little Norman church and the old manor house, from 1748 home of the Darby-Griffith family but in the 20th century converted into Padworth College, an independent co-educational boarding and day school for students aged 13–19.\n\nThe two halves of the parish can be separated and named:\n\n\nLower Padworth has Aldermaston railway station. Padworth has its southern boundary with Mortimer West End, Hampshire. The south of the parish is wooded towards its edges and the north of the parish is agricultural with a hotel beside the Kennet and Avon Canal.\n\nLand use statistics are not available for this civil parish. These figures under the census heading 'Physical Environment' can be obtained for the broader ward of 'Mortimer' from the data pages of the last census from the 2005 Office for National Statistics survey.\n\nA 'fishery in the Kenette' was among the possessions of the manor in 1586, and a fishery is mentioned as early as 1378. There is a Scheduled Ancient Monument fish-pond north of the independent school (former manor). In 1870 its real property was valued at £1,839 ( in general expenditure) while its population was much smaller than today, 298, living in 59 houses.\n\nThe whole parish is noted by the 1920s to be very well watered, and the north-eastern part draws on the natural advantage of a fairly flat landscape and water close to the surface from the Kennet. The soil remains a strength its inorganic layers being \"gravel and the subsoil [impermeable] clay\". The local economy in the 1920s centred on the chief crops: wheat, barley, oats and roots. These remain regular crops in Padworth alongside hay meadows for livestock, horses and donkeys. Gravel extraction, education, agriculture, transport and tourism provide jobs in Padworth itself. Aldermaston railway station next at Aldermaston Wharf serves two of these sectors. Commuting to towns, industrial, logistic and trading business centres is the most common source of employment as at the 2011 census, with for instance Reading and Newbury about 20–30 minutes away whether by rail or by access to the M4 motorway. Tadley also provides a major source of retail, leisure and general high street service employment, the nearest town.\n\nGrim's Ditch which runs from the mid-south of the area (into the southern forest of Ufton Nervet) is posited to be a 'sub-Roman' bank and ditch dug to defend Calleva Atrebatum (Silchester Roman Town) when the Anglo-Saxons began to settle the area.\n\nThe place is recorded in such documents as the Assize Rolls and national Feet of Fines (on property sale) as Peadanwurthe (10th century); Peteorde (11th century); Pedewurth (12th century); Padewrd, Padworze (13th century); Padesworth, Pappeworth (14th century).\n\nA full descent of the manor including its earliest known grant of 956, and during the Black Death is provided by the fully referenced text of the Victoria County History for this parish, compiled here in 1923.\n\nA secondary manor of Padworth (Hussey's) existed under John de la Husse in the 13th century, after whom it was named. It farmed at the Domesday Survey 2½ hides, which was held of William de Ow by a man named 'Gozelin' and in this instance its Saxon era owner was recorded as 'Ælfstan' with its nominal dues (that is, being held under) the crown (King Edward the Confessor). The period of titled bearers owning either manor was when the main manor (sometimes called Coudrays) was held by Sir Benjamin Tichborne, bart. and the Forster baronets (1629–1681). The manor house is Grade II* listed (the mid-category). It was built afresh in 1769 by designs of John Hobcraft. It has plasterwork by Joseph Rose. Its entrance is a double-height space, a staircase with a wrought iron balustrade to three sides. It has a vaulted 3-bay arched arcadess on each floor to one side with Doric columns on the ground floor and columns with Adamesque capitals on the floor above.\n\nPlace names that were here in the 17th century are: Ball's Pidle, Yew Pidle, Pondes Close, Little and Great Burfeildes, Culmers Wood and Bartholomew's, Brickworth Coppice.\n\nThe inclosure of the common land at Padworth was by its Private Act of Parliament of 1811 under the established limited compensatory procedures of the time.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of St John the Baptist is aisleless and built about 1130 with two three-light Tudor period ornately carved windows and with its vestry and porch having been added in 1890. A smaller Tudor window is pictured above, with two lights on the south-east square tower façade, above the font, which does not have the entrance. The roof of the nave was largely replaced in the 19th century. Rare features include the Norman chancel arch and north and south doorways, the semi-domed apse and the 18th-century monuments. It is listed in the top category of listed building, Grade I.\n\nThe church's advowson was from Priory of Monk Sherborne (Pamber Priory) by the year 1291 when various of its tithes and donations provided the Prior's pension. Upon the Dissolution of the Monasteries the advowson was exercised by the Crown until the 19th century. A parish rentcharge totalling £250 in 1848 was received by the rector, the parishioners having commutated the tithes; the parish glebe stood at . By 1923 the rector's patron was the Lord Chancellor.\n\nThe ecclesiastical parish is united as part of the benefice of Stratfield Mortimer, Mortimer West End and Padworth which has four churches and two church schools. The church alternates its Sunday service between 9 am Eucharist and 6.30 Evensong.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932900", "title": "Eurogamer", "text": "Eurogamer\n\nEurogamer is a video game journalism website owned by Gamer Network, both formed alongside each other in 1999. Its editor is Oli Welsh.\n\n\"Eurogamer\" (initially stylised as \"EuroGamer\") was launched on 4 September 1999. The founding team included John \"Gestalt\" Bye, the webmaster for the PlanetQuake website and a writer for British magazine \"PC Gaming World\"; Patrick \"Ghandi\" Stokes, a contributor for the website Warzone; and Rupert \"rauper\" Loman, who had organised the EuroQuake esports event for the game \"Quake\".\n\nIn January 2008, Tom Bramwell overtook the role of editor-in-chief from Kristan Reed, remaining in that role until he resigned in November 2014. Since then, Oli Welsh served as editor for Eurogamer.\n\nIt is known for the EGX, formerly Eurogamer Expo, trade fair organised by its parent company since 2008.\n\nIn February 2015, Eurogamer dropped its ten-point scale for review scores in favour of a \"recommendation system\", in which a game would be labelled as \"Essential\", \"Recommended\" or \"Avoid\".\n\n\"Eurogamer\" is the principal site of the Gamer Network family of video game-related websites. It has several regional sub-outlets:\n\n\"Digital Foundry\", founded in 2004, has been hosted on \"Eurogamer\" since 2007 and is led by Richard Leadbetter. It performs technical analyses of games.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932915", "title": "Ahuizotl (mythology)", "text": "Ahuizotl (mythology)\n\nThe ahuizotl (from the for \"spiny aquatic thing\") is a legendary creature in Aztec myth.\n\nThe creature is described as dog-like, its waterproof fur often clumping up to create spikes (hence its name). The ahuizotl has hands capable of manipulation and an additional hand on its tail. The ahuizotl is feared due to its liking for human flesh, especially nails, eyes, and teeth. It is said to live in or near the water and to use the hand on the end of its tail to snatch its prey, dragging the person into the depths to drown them. Victims of the ahuizotl, Aztec beliefs state, are destined for the paradise of the god Tlaloc.\n\nThe ahuizotl included within Book 11 of the Florentine Codex, which describes it as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932916", "title": "Marsh Benham", "text": "Marsh Benham\n\nMarsh Benham is a village in the civil parish of Speen in the county of Berkshire, England. It is situated in the unitary authority of West Berkshire, just west of Newbury.\n\nThe village has a public house called the 'Red House'. Nearby stands Benham Park.\n"}
{"id": "1932927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932927", "title": "2005–06 in Scottish football", "text": "2005–06 in Scottish football\n\nThe 2005–06 season was the 109th season of competitive football in Scotland.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Scottish Premier League 2005–06 season finished in May 2006 with Celtic as champions. Livingston were relegated to the First Division and First Division winners St Mirren were promoted. For the first time in 11 years, when Celtic finished fourth behind Rangers, Motherwell and Hibernian, the Old Firm were separated with Rangers finishing third behind Hearts. Kris Boyd was the top scorer with 32 goals (15 for Kilmarnock and 17 for Rangers). Attendances went up to 3.7 million, the highest figure in top-flight Scottish football since the 1960s.\n\nHearts became the first non-Old Firm club to win the Scottish Cup since they themselves lifted the trophy in 1998. Second Division side Gretna became the first club in history from the third-tier of Scottish football to reach the final. Celtic meanwhile lifted the League Cup in what was manager Gordon Strachan's first trophy as manager. St Mirren were winners of the Challenge Cup in a season that would eventually see them promoted to the SPL. Auchinleck Talbot lifted the Junior Cup.\n\nScotland failed in their attempt to qualify for the 2006 World Cup, eventually finishing third in their group. However, significant improvement was shown in results with just two defeats from nine matches, compared with four defeats from nine during the previous season. Wins against Moldova and Norway and a draw at home to Italy had raised hopes that Scotland could gain second place behind Italy and therefore enter the play-offs. However a 1–0 defeat at home to Belarus ended their hopes of qualification. They finished the season strongly, however, with a victory over Slovenia and also lifted the Kirin Cup — beating Bulgaria and drawing with hosts Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932929", "title": "List of Chief Ministers of KwaNdebele", "text": "List of Chief Ministers of KwaNdebele\n\n"}
{"id": "1932930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932930", "title": "Jean-Paul-Égide Martini", "text": "Jean-Paul-Égide Martini\n\nJean-Paul-Égide Martini, (31 August 1741 – 14 February 1816) was a composer of classical music. Sometimes known as Martini Il Tedesco, he is best known today for the vocal romance \"Plaisir d'amour,\" on which the 1961 Elvis Presley pop standard \"Can't Help Falling in Love\" is based. He is sometimes referred to as Giovanni Martini, resulting in a confusion with Giovanni Battista Martini, particularly with regard to the composition \"Plaisir d'amour\"'.\n\nMartini was born Johann Paul Aegidius Martin in Freystadt, Bavaria as son of the schoolmaster Andreas Martin and his wife Barbara. He was educated at the Jesuit seminary in Neuburg an der Donau and later started a study of philosophy in Freiburg im Breisgau, which he quit unfinished. He temporarily adopted the code name \"Schwarzendorf\", presumably trying to cover his tracks for the fear of being urged to refund his education cost. He re-adopted his original family name in the Italianized form \"Martini\" after moving to France. There, he established a successful career as a court musician. In 1764, he married Marguerite Camelot. Having directed concerts for queen Marie Antoinette, he adapted to the changing regimes throughout the French Revolution, and later wrote music for Napoleon's marriage as well as for the restored \"Chapelle royale\". His melodic opera \"L'amoureux de quinze ans\", written in 1771, enjoyed great success. In addition, his highly popular church music combined old forms with modern theatricality, and his chansons including \"Plaisir d'amour\" were influential. In 1788, he paid 16.000 livres to become \"surintendant de la musique du roi\". He was designated to take office after his predecessor's death, however the outbreak of the French Revolution prevented this. Martini lost all his functions and took flight to Lyon. In 1800 he became a professor of composition at the Paris Conservatoire. In 1814, after the Bourbon Restoration, Martini was finally appointed \"surintendant de la musique du roi\", the post that he had been promised more than 25 years earlier. His last composition was a requiem in honour of Louis XVI of France, which he performed in the Basilica of St Denis on 21 January 1816, the anniversary day of the monarch's execution. He died in Paris in February 1816.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932933", "title": "Epidendrum", "text": "Epidendrum\n\nEpidendrum , abbreviated Epi in the horticultural trade, is a large neotropical genus of the orchid family. With more than 1,500 species, some authors describe it as a mega-genus. The genus name (from Greek \"επί, epi\" and \"δένδρον, dendron\", \"upon trees\") refers to its epiphytic growth habit.\n\nWhen Carl Linnaeus named this genus in 1763, he included in this genus all the epiphytic orchids known to him. Although few of these orchids are still included in the genus \"Epidendrum\", some species of \"Epidendrum\" are nevertheless not epiphytic.\n\nThey are native to the tropics and subtropical regions of the American continents, from North Carolina to Argentina. Their habitat can be epiphytic, terrestrial (such as \"E. fulgens\"), or even lithophytic (growing on bare rock, such as \"E. calanthm\" and \"E. saxatile\"). Many are grown in the Andes, at altitudes between 1,000 and 3,000 m. Their habitats include humid jungles, dry tropical forests, sunny grassy slopes, cool cloud forests, and sandy barrier islands.\n\nMembers of this genus can be very aggressive colonisers of disturbed habitat, and many species which were once rare in this genus have become more common as the result of human activities. For example, some of these plants can be found in greater abundance growing terrestrially along road cuts throughout their native ranges as the result of road construction.\n\nMany of these species are relatively easy to grow in rich humus compost with some sand. The plants resemble Dendrobiums in form and habit typically, although they tend to be terrestrial rather than lithophytic and epiphytic, and do better in a humus rich, well aerated substrate.\n\nMost of the high altitude members of this genus from cloud forests defy cultivation outside their habitat, and it is reported that even moving a plant from one location to another on the same host tree in habitat will result in the death of the plant, possibly due to dependency on a specific mycorrhizal fungal symbiont.\n\nThey are quite varied in flower size and appearance. They grow in tufts, in racemose inflorescences, sometimes in corymbs or panicles. The apical, lateral or basal flowers are mostly small to medium in size and frequently are not marked by a conspicuous display. The inflorescences are frequently dense. Many species are fragrant. The flowers may be produced only once, or during several years from the same or new inflorescences. The ellipsoid fruits are 3-ribbed capsules.\n\nThis genus has the following characteristics:\n\n\nInitially, European taxonomists applied the generic epithet \"Epidendrum\" to all newly discovered epiphytic orchids. Gradually, many of these \"\"Epidendrums\"\" were recognized as being quite diverse and deserving of different generic epithets—many belong to different tribes or subtribes (e.g. \"Vanda\"). To add to the confusion, however, many descriptions of closely related species were published with different generic epithets.\n\nAs if the confusion caused by these publications were not great enough, many closely related genera (or perhaps subgenera, sections, or subsections) have been recognized and published. According to the modern rules of taxonomy, each new proposed genus that is split off from \"Epidendrum\" must bear the name of the oldest generic epithet published for a member of the new genus. Hence, many genera which have been brought into synonymy with \"Epidendrum\" have later been segregated out again. Because most of these decisions rest on the informed opinions of authorities, the segregated taxa are often then re-published as synonyms. Hence, some of the following information may seem a bit contradictory, especially if the assertion that two names are \"synonyms\" is misconstrued as an assertion that the two names mean exactly the same thing.\n\nThe following genera have been brought into synonymy with \"Epidendrum\":\n\n\nGenera which have been erected (or resurrected) from \"Epidendrum\" include the following examples:\n\n\n\"Epidendrum\" \"sensu lato\" is a huge genus, embracing more than 2,000 binomials (about 1,100 accepted names and the rest have become synonyms of other species). More than 1,000 have been split off into new or resurrected genera. However, it is estimated that there are more than 2,000 \"Epidendrum\" orchids, many of which still have to be discovered. More than 400 new species have lately been described by Eric Hágsater and colleagues (see: Reference).\n\nSeveral botanists have been honored with an \"Epidendrum\" orchid named after them, including the following:\n\nOnly a few natural hybrids within the genus have been named as species, such as \"Epidendrum × doroteae\", \"Epidendrum × gransabanense\" and \"Epidendrum × purpureum\".\n\n\"Epidendrum\" orchids hybridize readily with members of other related genera, such as \"Cattleya\" (\"Epicattleya\" is the accepted nothogenus for such a hybrid) \"Brassavola\" (producing a \"Brassoepidendrum\"). There are also multi-generic hybrids, for example, \"Adamara\" is the nothogenus for hybrids containing ancestor species from each of the genera \"Brassavola\", \"Cattleya\", \"Epidendrum\", and \"Laelia\", but no others.\n\nHybridization is thought to have a strong influence in diversification of this genus sometimes compromising the genetic integrity of the parental species.\n\nThe flowers of many \"Epidendrum\" species are small, but some such as \"E. ibaguense\" are showy, and many are widely cultivated, such as \"E. cinnabarinum\", \"E. ibaguense\", \"E. nocturnum\", \"E. radicans\", \"E. secundum\", and a multitude of hybrids of these species.\n\nMost \"Epidendrum\" species require cool or intermediate to warm conditions for culture, and the commonly cultivated species, such as \"E. radicans\" grow in typically cool conditions. Some, such as \"E. magnoliae\" (syn. \"E. conopseum\") can even tolerate extended freezing conditions. In Auckland and other sub-tropical regions of New Zealand, the cool growing plants will flower all year round. While they are normally grown in pots, it is also possible to grow them in a bark garden or on a tree, although the plants prefer a humus rich well-aerated media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932935", "title": "Epilobium", "text": "Epilobium\n\nEpilobium is a genus of flowering plants in the family Onagraceae, containing about 197 species. The genus has a worldwide distribution. It is most prevalent in the subarctic, temperate and subantarctic regions, whereas in the subtropics and tropics \"Epilobium\" species are restricted to the cool montane biomes, such as the New Guinea Highlands.\n\nThe taxonomy of the genus has varied between different botanists, but the modern trend is to include the previously recognised genera \"Boisduvalia, Pyrogennema\" and \"Zauschneria\" within \"Epilobium\". \"Chamaenerion\", previously \"(Chamerion)\", is considered distinct, however, according to Peter H. Raven, who has extensively studied the willowherbs and merges the other segregate genera into \"Epilobium\". Fringed willowherb (\"E. ciliatum\") is likely a cryptic species complex; apparently these plants also commonly hybridize with their congeners.\n\nMost species are known by the common name willowherbs for their willow-like leaves. Those that were once separated in \"Boisduvalia\" are called spike-primroses or boisduvalias. Those \"Epilobium\" species previously placed in the \"Chamaenerion\" group and known as fireweeds are now segregated into the genus \"Chamaenerion\".\n\nEpilobiums are mostly herbaceous plants, either annual or perennial; a few are subshrubs. The leaves are opposite or rarely whorled, simple and ovate to lanceolate in shape. The flowers are actinomorphic (radially symmetrical) with four petals that may be notched. These are usually smallish and pink in most species, but red, orange or yellow in a few. The fruit is a slender cylindrical capsule containing numerous seeds embedded in fine, soft silky fluff which disperses the seeds very effectively in the wind.\n\nA number of \"Epilobium\" species with slightly asymmetrical (zygomorphic) magenta flowers and alternate leaves were placed in a \"Chamaenerion\" group, and have been separated by some authorities into the genus \"Chamerion\". However, \"Chamerion\" has not been universally accepted and there is now emerging consensus that this group of species should be segregated into the genus \"Chamaenerion\".\n\nWillowherbs \"sensu lato\" are typically very quick to carpet large swathes of ground and may become key or dominant species of local ecosystems. In the United Kingdom, for example, rosebay willowherb (\"Chamaenerion angustifolium\") is widely found on mesotrophic soils dominated by false oat-grass (\"Arrhenatherum elatius\"), cock's-foot grass (\"Dactylis glomerata\"), and red fescue (\"Festuca rubra\"), while great willowherb (\"Epilobium hirsutum\") is found in mesotrophic grassland with stinging nettle (\"Urtica dioica\"). These two willowherb species also dominate open habitat early in ecological succession, to the virtual exclusion of other plant life. Broad-leaved willowherb (\"Epilobium montanum\") is found characteristically, though not abundantly, in the mesotrophic grasslands with meadowsweet (\"Filipendula ulmaria\") and sometimes the uncommon Greek valerian (\"Polemonium caeruleum\"). Most willowherbs will not tolerate shade trees and thus are limited to more recently disturbed patches, yielding to other plants over time. Consequently, though the genus contains many pioneer plants, rather few of them are invasive weeds of major importance.\n\n\"Epilobium\" species are used as food plants by the caterpillars of certain Lepidoptera species, including:\nGeometridae\nNoctuidae\nSphingidae\n\nThe main use of \"Epilobium\" by humans is as a herbal supplement in the treatment of prostate, bladder (incontinence) and hormone disorders.\nMany of the small willowherb species are nuisance weeds in gardens. Though few are regularly used as ornamental plants, the larger willowherbs may be attractive in ruderal locales. One of the most frequently recognized members of the genus is the circumboreal fireweed (\"E. angustifolium\"), known as rosebay willowherb in the United Kingdom. It rapidly colonizes burnt ground; during the bombing of London in World War II many of the derelict bomb sites were soon covered with these plants, bringing a splash of colour to what was otherwise a very grim scene. It is the floral emblem of Yukon in Canada, Hedmark in Norway (where it is called \"geitrams\") and Southern Ostrobothnia in Finland.\n\nFireweed is used as a sweetener in northwestern North America. It is put in candy, jellies, ice cream, syrup, and \"sxusem\" (\"Indian ice cream\"). In the late summer its flowers yield pollen and copious nectar which give a rich spicy honey. Its young leaves, roots, and shoots are edible (if somewhat bitter), and rich in provitamin A and vitamin C. The Dena’ina found them also useful as food supplement for dogs and applied sap from the stem to wounds, believing it to have antiinflammatory properties.\n\nSeveral researchers have studied this taxon. Heinrich Carl Haussknecht in the late 19th century and Peter H. Raven about a century later researched the phylogeny, systematics, and taxonomy of willowherbs. Peter Michaelis' studies of this genus paved the way for understanding of extranuclear inheritance in plants.\n\nThe National Museum of Natural History recognizes an intermediate number of about 197 species in 10 sections, and consider the former section \"Chamaenerion\" (=\"Chamerion\"), as a distinct genus. Other sources may list one or two dozen species, more or less:\n\nSection \"Boisduvalia\"\n\nSection \"Cordylophorum\"\n\nSection \"Crossostigma\"\n\nSection \"Epilobiopsis\"\n\nSection \"Macrocarpa\"\n\nSection \"Xerolobium\"\nSection \"Zauschneria\"\n\n\nSection \"Epilobium\"\n\nThe following species are now segregated into the genus \"Chamaenerion\" The generic name \"Chamaenerion\" is preferred to \"Chamerion\".)\n\nSection \"Chamaenerion\"\n\nSection \"Rosmarinifolium\"\n\n\nIt is possible to distinguish between leaves of different \"Epilobium\" species using high-accuracy FT-IR method based on attenuated total reflection (ATR) without time-consuming preparation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932936", "title": "Tsing Yi North Bridge", "text": "Tsing Yi North Bridge\n\nTsing Yi North Bridge (), also called Tsing Tsuen Bridge (), connects the Tam Kon Shan Interchange on Tsing Yi Island to the Texaco Road Roundabout in Tsuen Wan, spanning the Rambler Channel. Inaugurated on 10 December 1987, the bridge was designed to improve access to Tsing Yi, which at that time was connected to Kwai Chung by only one fixed link, the heavily congested Tsing Yi Bridge.\n\nThe Tsing Yi North Bridge was intended to alleviate congestion on Tsing Yi's sole existing bridge to the south. It was designed by Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners and constructed by the Maeda/Oriental Joint Venture. Construction began on 24 September 1984.\n\nAn opening ceremony for the Tsing Yi North Bridge, built at a cost of HK$200 million, was held by Governor David Wilson on 10 December 1987. It opened to traffic on 11 December 1987, at which time it was the longest bridge in Hong Kong.\n\nThe ferry service between Tsing Yi and Tsuen Wan was terminated by Hongkong and Yaumati Ferry several years after the opening of the North Bridge.\n\nTsing Yi North Bridge was, when opened in 1987, Hong Kong's largest prestressed balanced cantilever bridge with a main navigation span of 160 metres, side spans of 90 metres, and approach viaducts that brought the total length to 1,015 metres. The design can support a 2-way and 4-lane traffic. The balustrade on the bridge was an aluminium-type to prevent rusting, although it was changed to welded stainless steel, because of the frequent stolen cases of aluminium bars in the past decades.\n\nOn 1 February 2002, the day of the opening of Tsing Yi North Coastal Road, the North Bridge was connected and became the main path from Tsuen Wan to Tung Chung on Lantau Island and the International Airport in Chek Lap Kok.\n\nPavements are available on both side of the bridge.\n\nThe following are Kowloon Motor Bus bus routes via the bridge:\n"}
{"id": "1932938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932938", "title": "Welchia", "text": "Welchia\n\nWelchia, also known as the \"Nachi worm\", is a computer worm that exploits a vulnerability in the Microsoft remote procedure call (RPC) service similar to the Blaster worm. However, unlike Blaster, it first searches for and deletes Blaster if it exists, then tries to download and install security patches from Microsoft that would prevent further infection by Blaster, so it is classified as a helpful worm. Welchia was successful in deleting Blaster, but Microsoft claimed that it was not always successful in applying their security patch.\n\nThis worm infected systems by exploiting vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows system code (TFTPD.EXE and TCP on ports 666–765, and a buffer overflow of the RPC on port 135). Its method of infection is to create a remote shell and instruct the system to download the worm using TFTP.EXE. Specifically, the Welchia worm targeted machines running Windows XP. The worm used ICMP, and in some instances flooded networks with enough ICMP traffic to cause problems.\n\nOnce on the system, the worm patches the vulnerability it used to gain access (thereby actually securing the system against other attempts to exploit the same method of intrusion) and run its payload, a series of Microsoft patches. It then attempts to remove the Blaster Worm by deleting MSBLAST.EXE. If still in the system, the worm is programmed to self-remove on January 1, 2004, or after 120 days of processing, whichever comes first.\n\nIn September 2003, the worm was discovered on the US State Department's computer network, causing them to shut down their network for 9 hours for remediation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932941", "title": "Burmese people", "text": "Burmese people\n\nBurmese people may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932952", "title": "Membrane mirror", "text": "Membrane mirror\n\nMembrane mirrors are mirrors made on thin films of material, such as metallized PET film. They can be used as components in adaptive optics systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932967", "title": "Clint Hallam", "text": "Clint Hallam\n\nClint Hallam (born in New Zealand) was the first recipient of a human hand transplant.\nHallam lost his hand in a circular saw accident at Rolleston Prison in 1984, where he was incarcerated after a fraud conviction. The original reattachment of the severed limb failed, and he had his hand amputated.\n\nA surgery team led by Australian Earl Owen and Frenchman Jean-Michel Dubernard transplanted a new hand on 23 September 1998 in a 13-hour-long operation in Lyon, France. At the time of the transplant Clint Hallam faced fraud charges in Australia, in relation to a national fuel-card scam totalling $30,000. After an initial period of two years during which he had no motor control of the transplanted hand, Hallam voluntarily stopped taking immunosuppressive drugs. \n\nThe transplanted hand was amputated on 3 February 2001 by Nadey Hakim. Hallam had issues with the transplant because of failure to take anti-rejection medicine regularly, and performing the exercises required to build strength and motor capabilities.\n"}
{"id": "1932984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932984", "title": "Patriot (comics)", "text": "Patriot (comics)\n\nPatriot is the name of three fictional superheroes appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. These include the Golden Age hero Jeffrey Mace and the modern-day characters Eli Bradley and Rayshaun Lucas.\n\nThe first Patriot, Jeffrey Mace, created by writer Ray Gill and artist Bill Everett, debuted in \"The Human Torch\" # 4 (Spring 1941; numbered #3 on cover). He was a reporter who became a costumed adventurer after seeing Captain America in action, and was later a member of the World War II superhero team the Liberty Legion. The Patriot himself became the third Captain America.\n\nThe second Marvel Universe character to use the name Patriot debuted in \"Young Avengers\" #1 (April 2005): Eli Bradley, grandson of Isaiah Bradley, an incarnation of Captain America. Isaiah had received his powers (in the limited series \"\") as part of an early Super-Soldier Serum experiment tested on African American men in an attempt to reproduce the formula lost after being used to turn Steve Rogers into Captain America. Eli's mother was conceived before Isaiah's involvement with the experiment, however, so Eli could not have inherited his grandfather's powers genetically.\n\nWhen Iron Lad began his search for the next generation of Avengers, he came to the Bradley household in search of Isaiah's son, Josiah. However, Josiah had been missing for several months, and Iron Lad met Eli instead. Eli claimed to have gained superpowers through an emergency blood transfusion from his grandfather, but this was untrue. He later gained his powers artificially with Mutant Growth Hormone (MGH), an illegal street drug that causes brief periods of superhuman abilities. MGH has been demonstrated to promote irascibility in individuals. Writer Allan Heinberg has stated that Bradley's drug usage is based on his own history, stating\n\nPatriot became a founding member of the Young Avengers. The public believed his costume resembled that of Captain America's 1940s sidekick, Bucky, but he revealed that his costume is a redesign of his grandfather's. He has an adversarial relationship with teammate Hawkeye, who nonetheless gave him Captain America's original star-spangled triangular shield.\n\nWhen the truth about Eli's lack of superpowers was revealed, Eli quit the team. He returned after the Hulkling was kidnapped by the Super-Skrull, and the other Young Avengers convinced him that he was the only one of them capable of leading the team, even without his powers. Patriot was later gravely wounded by a Kree warrior when he jumped in front of a blast meant for Captain America, and received a blood transfusion from his grandfather, Isaiah, which granted him the abilities afforded by the Super-Soldier Serum.\n\nEli joined Captain America's Secret Avengers during the \"Civil War\" storyline. Patriot led his team to assist the Runaways after they were attacked by the government. The Young Avengers and the Runaways worked together when two of their members were captured, and the Runaways decided to stay out of the mix in the war. Patriot managed to keep most of his team together, but Stature decided to join Iron Man's side.\n\nEli later seeks out the Winter Soldier (whom he had earlier met during the Civil War) to discuss the meaning of being a patriot at a time when he disagrees with registration and much of the way America is being run, and the two have a heartfelt chat about America as an idea and about the original Patriot, Jeffrey Mace.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, Eli and the other Young Avengers were the first team to respond to the Skrull invasion of Manhattan. Despite their valiant efforts, and the aid of the Initiative cadets, they are all defeated. However, they are saved by the timely arrival of Nick Fury and the Secret Warriors and help Earth's heroes defeat the Skrull invaders.\n\nDuring the \"Dark Reign\" storyline, Eli was outraged when Norman Osborn formed his \"official\" team of Avengers and even more so when he announced . Eli's Young Avengers confront the latter and demand that they either join the first team of Young Avengers, or find another name for themselves. Near the end of the issue, Hawkeye (Kate Bishop) admits her love for Eli after he breaks his hand, to which he responds 'I may break my hand everyday', making their relationship clear after a few months of dating.\n\nEli appears alongside the other Young Avengers in \"Avengers: Children's Crusade\". He ultimately leaves the group during the aftermath, feeling guilty for preventing the Scarlet Witch from undoing the near-extinction of mutantkind that she had caused.\n\nEli is later mentioned in Gillen's volume 2 of \"Young Avengers\" when Tommy Shepherd confirms the Not-Patriot is an impostor after getting off the phone with Eli's mother, remarking that Eli is still in Arizona and has not left his bed in two weeks. It is still unknown why he has been bedridden.\n\nIn March 2017, Marvel announced that they would be introducing a new Patriot during the \"Secret Empire\" storyline. The new Patriot is Rayshaun Lucas, a teen activist who idolizes Sam Wilson.\nRayshaun \"Shaun\" Lucas was living in Brooklyn with his mother when Sam Wilson released footage showing that Rage had been wrongfully accused and savagely beaten by Keane Industries' private security personnel, the Americops. Following Elvin's unjust conviction, Shaun painted his face to resemble Rage's mask and then slipped out to firebomb a local bank, before participating in the subsequent riots in New York City.\n\nAfter Sam Wilson resigned as Captain America, Shaun washed the Rage mask from his face and began to draw designs for a costume that he called the Patriot.\n\nAfter the Black Widow finds a notebook with a Patriot suit drawn on it in the backpack of Rayshaun Lucas when he arrives at the secret Hydra resistance base known as \"the Mount,\" she gives the notebook to the Tony Stark A.I. associated with Riri Williams, who in turn builds the suit. After trying to stop a group of bullies from taking an iPad from a little girl, Rayshaun gets beaten. Afterwards, the Tony Stark A.I. calls Rayshaun and gives him the suit that he made for him, explaining that Rayshaun gave him hope again and that the suit is a way to thank him for that. Rayshaun trains with an A.I. version of the Black Widow that the Tony Stark A.I. made and eventually confronts the bullies while he wears the suit and defeats them, giving the little girl her iPad back. Miles Morales and Joaquin Torres tell Rayshaun that they heard about him and that they are looking forward to having him on their team.\n\nHe later appears in the desert where he overhears a discussion between Sam Wilson and Misty Knight. He then tells Sam about the people who need his help and support him, despite what the HYDRA government says. This conversation inspires Sam to reassume his mantle of Captain America.\n\nAfter HYDRA's attack on Las Vegas, Nevada, the Patriot helps the Champions in their search for survivors. When the Champions are expressing frustration over their failure, the Patriot arrives with a baby, the sole survivor of the attack, which inspires the team to continue fighting HYDRA.\n\nThe Patriot later becomes the Falcon's sidekick, where they deal with the gang violence in Chicago and are unaware that Blackheart is posing as the Mayor of Chicago.\n\nWhile secretly using his specially concocted MGH formula, Eli Bradley possessed agility, strength, speed, endurance, and reaction-time superior to that of normal Super-Soldiers like his grandfather and Captain America, but at a heavy physical and mental cost. After receiving a blood transfusion from his grandfather, Eli developed genuine Super-Soldier abilities where his strength, stamina, speed, reflexes, agility, durability, bulletproof skin, and healing factor and senses are superhuman. In \"Civil War\" #2, Eli appears to possess the full physical abilities of a Super-Soldier. He is able to outrun a helicopter, shrug off a hail of tranquilizer darts, jump 100 feet through the air, and survive a massive explosion.The Patriot carries a replica of Captain America's original, star-spangled, heater shield, similar to the unpainted one originally carried into battle by his grandfather Isaiah. He also carries white metallic throwing stars patterned after those on the American flag.\n\nIn \"Exiles: Days of Then and Now\", the Patriot was seen as a member of Quentin Quire's surviving team of heroes, who were against the Annihilation Wave, whose leader was a banished Hulk.\n\nEli briefly appears in a possible future timeline as part of a new group of Avengers seen in the \"\" event. Eli has succeeded Steve Rogers and become the new Captain America, and fights crime alongside his wife Samantha, the new Falcon. Their son Steve is also a member of the Avengers as the new Bucky.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932992", "title": "Chief firefighter", "text": "Chief firefighter\n\nA chief firefighter is a senior officer of a firefighting crew, the driver of fire car. In imperial Prussia, the title was known as \"brandmeister\" (from German \"Brand\" - \"fire\" and \"Meister\" - literally \"master\") and was the police officer, the chief of one of city fire-fighting crews. In modern German, there are also posts of \"oberbrandmeister\" (the senior brandmeister) and \"hauptbrandmeister\" (chief brandmeister). Conditions of their service in Germany, besides other, include German citizenship or citizenship of EU and the driver's class B license (earlier - class III).\n\nIn North America, this role can be that of:\n\n"}
{"id": "1932999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932999", "title": "Ullmann", "text": "Ullmann\n\nUllmann is a German surname also associated with Jewish Europeans. It means \"man from Ulm\". \n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1933002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933002", "title": "Album cover", "text": "Album cover\n\nAn album cover is the front of the packaging of a commercially released audio recording product, or album. The term can refer to either the printed paperboard covers typically used to package sets of and 78-rpm records, single and sets of LPs, sets of 45 rpm records (either in several connected sleeves or a box), or the front-facing panel of a CD package, and, increasingly, the primary image accompanying a digital download of the album, or of its individual tracks.\n\nIn the case of all types of tangible records, it also serves as part of the protective sleeve.\n\nAround 1910, 78-rpm records replaced the phonograph cylinder as the medium for recorded sound. The 78-rpm records were issued in both 10- and 12-inch diameter sizes and were usually sold separately, in brown paper or cardboard sleeves that were sometimes plain and sometimes printed to show the producer or the retailer's name. These were invariably made out of acid paper, limiting conservability. Generally the sleeves had a circular cutout allowing the record label to be seen. Records could be laid on a shelf horizontally or stood upright on an edge, but because of their fragility, many broke in storage.\n\nGerman record company Odeon pioneered the \"album\" in 1909 when it released the \"Nutcracker Suite\" by Tchaikovsky on four double-sided discs in a specially designed package. (It is not indicated what the specially designed package was.) The practice of issuing albums does not seem to have been taken up by other record companies for many years.\n\nBeginning in the 1920s, bound collections of empty sleeves with a plain paperboard or leather cover were sold as \"record albums\" (similar to a photograph album) that customers could use to store their records. (The name \"record album\" was printed on some covers.) These empty albums were sold in both 10- and 12-inch sizes. The covers of these bound books were wider and taller than the records inside, allowing the record album to be placed on a shelf upright, like a book, and suspending the fragile records above the shelf, protecting them.\n\nStarting in the 1930s, record companies began issuing collections of 78-rpm records by one performer or of one type of music in specially assembled collections. These albums of several 78-rpm records could include a collection of popular songs related by either performer or style, or extended-length classical music, including complete symphonies.\n\nIn 1938, Columbia Records hired Alex Steinweiss as its first art director. He is credited with inventing the concept of album covers and cover art, replacing the plain covers used before. After his initial efforts at Columbia, other record companies followed his lead. By the late 1940s, record albums for all the major companies featured their own colorful paper covers in both 10- and 12-inch sizes. Some featured reproductions of classic art while others utilized original designs.\n\nWhen the 10- and 12-inch long-playing records (LPs) came along in 1948, and box sets of 45-rpm records soon followed (see gramophone record), the name \"album\" was used for the new format of collections, and the creation of artistic original album covers continued.\n\nFrom the 1950s through to the 1980s, the 12\" LP record and the 45 rpm record became the major formats for the distribution of popular music. The LP format remains in use for occasional new releases, though other formats have largely supplanted it. The size of the typical cardboard LP sleeve cover is square.\n\nStarting in the mid-1990s, the compact disc (CD) was the most common form of physically-distributed music products. Packaging formats vary, including the jewel case (which since 1982 has been the most popular form of CD packaging), and the cardboard and plastic combination commonly known as a Digipak (which has been a popular alternative form of packaging in recent years, but remains supplanted by the jewel case due to higher manufacturing costs and lower durability). Typically the album cover component of these packages is approximately square.\n\nAlbum covers are one of the various ways in which first impressions affect an audience's perception of a given musician or band. Album covers' design cover may also add to how an audience forms an opinion of them and their music. There are various ways in which an album cover is visualized. Some examples include artists choosing to put a photo of themselves, such as Childish Gambino's \"Because the Internet\" album, which is one of the factors that add to the observation of the band, the musician, and the music.\n\nThe album cover eventually became an important part of the culture of music. Under the influence of designers like Bob Cato, who at various stages in his long music career was vice president of creative services at both Columbia Records and United Artists, album covers became renowned for being a marketing tool and an expression of artistic intent. Album art has also been discussed as an important postwar cultural expression.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, the Beatles' \"With the Beatles\", Bob Dylan's \"The Times They Are a-Changin'\" and the Rolling Stones' self-titled debut album each contained a cover photograph designed to further the musical artist's public image. Author Peter Doggett also highlights the cover of Otis Redding's \"Otis Blue\", containing a photo of a young white woman, as a design that \"played a dual role: she represented the transcendent power of the music, and obscured the race of its creator.\" The standard portrait-based LP cover was further challenged over 1965–66 by Dylan's \"Bringing It All Back Home\", through the inclusion of symbolic artefacts around the singer; the artificially stretched faces of the Beatles shown on their \"Rubber Soul\" album; and the darkened hues applied to the Rolling Stones on \"Aftermath\".\n\nGatefold covers (a folded double cover) and inserts, often with lyric sheets, made the album cover a desirable work in its own right. Notable examples are the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\", which had cut-out inserts, printed lyrics, and a gatefold sleeve, even though it was a single album; the Rolling Stones' \"Exile on Main Street\", which had a gatefold and a series of 12 perforated postcards as inserts (taken by photographer Norman Seeff); and Pink Floyd's \"The Dark Side of the Moon\", which had a gatefold, lyrics, no title on the sleeve, and poster and sticker inserts. The Band's 1970 release \"Stage Fright\", which included a photograph by Seeff as a poster insert, is an early example of LP artwork quickly becoming a collector's item. The move to the small (less than 1/4 the size of a record) CD format lost that impact, although attempts have been made to create a more desirable packaging for the CD format, for example the reissue of \"Sgt. Pepper\", which had a cardboard box and booklet, or the use of oversized packaging.\n\nThe importance of design was such that some cover artists specialised or gained fame through their work. Such people include the design team Hipgnosis, through their work on Pink Floyd albums, amongst others; Roger Dean, famous for his Yes and Greenslade covers; Cal Schenkel, for Captain Beefheart's \"Trout Mask Replica\" and Frank Zappa's \"We're Only in It for the Money\".\n\nThe talents of many photographers and illustrators from both inside and outside of the music industry have been used to produce a vast array of memorable LP/CD covers. Photographer Mick Rock produced some of the most iconographic album covers of the 1970s, including Queen's \"Queen II\" (recreated for their classic music video Bohemian Rhapsody), Syd Barrett's \"The Madcap Laughs\", and Lou Reed's \"Transformer\". From 1972 to 1975, photographer Norman Seeff was Creative Director at United Artists and in addition to his many cover photographs (The Band, Kiss's Hotter than Hell, Joni Mitchell's Hejira etc.), he art directed dozens of album covers including \"Exile on Main Street\", many of which received Grammy nominations. In addition to the examples mentioned previously, a number of world-renowned graphic artists and illustrators such as Ed Repka (Megadeth), Andy Warhol (The Velvet Underground, The Rolling Stones), Mati Klarwein (Santana, Miles Davis), H. R. Giger (Emerson, Lake & Palmer, Debbie Harry), Frank Frazetta (Molly Hatchet), Derek Riggs (Iron Maiden), Jamie Reid (The Sex Pistols), Howard Finster (R.E.M., Talking Heads), Al Hirschfeld (Aerosmith), Ken Kelly (Kiss, Manowar), Gottfried Helnwein (Marilyn Manson), Rex Ray (David Bowie), Robert Crumb (Big Brother & the Holding Company), John Van Hamersveld (The Rolling Stones), and Shepard Fairey (Johnny Cash) have all applied their talents to memorable music packages.\n\nA number of record covers have also used images licensed (or borrowed from the public domain) from artists of bygone eras. Well-known examples of this include the cover of Derek and the Dominos \"Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs\" (from the painting \"La Fille au Bouquet\" by French painter and sculptor Émile Théodore Frandsen de Schomberg), 'The Downfall of Icarus' by Genisson on the cover of the first album by Renaissance; Bosch on the cover of Deep Purple; Breugel on the cover of Fleet Foxes; the cover of Kansas's debut album, adapted from a mural by painter John Steuart Curry, Norman Rockwell's cowboy (Pure Prairie League), and, more recently, Coldplay's \"Viva La Vida\", which features Eugène Delacroix's painting \"Liberty Leading the People\" (a favorite in The Louvre) with the words \"VIVA LA VIDA\" brushed on top in white paint.\n\nLegends from photography and video/film who have also produced record cover images include Drew Struzan (Black Sabbath, Alice Cooper, Iron Butterfly, The Beach Boys and others), Annie Leibovitz (John Lennon, Bruce Springsteen, Patti Smith), Richard Avedon (Whitney Houston, Teddy Pendergrass), David LaChappelle (No Doubt, Elton John), Anton Corbijn (U2, The Killers, Depeche Mode), Karl Ferris (Jimi Hendrix, Donovan, The Hollies), Robert Mapplethorpe (Patti Smith, Peter Gabriel) and Francesco Scavullo (Diana Ross, Edgar Winter), David Michael Kennedy others.\n\nA number of artists and bands feature members who are, in their own right, accomplished illustrators, designers and photographers and whose talents are exhibited in the artwork they produced for their own recordings. Examples include Jimmy Page (\"Led Zeppelin IV\"), Chris Mars (Replacements' \"Pleased to Meet Me\" and others), Marilyn Manson (\"Lest We Forget...\"), Michael Stipe (REM's \"Accelerator\"), Thom Yorke (credited as \"Tchocky\" on misc. Radiohead records), Michael Brecker (\"Ringorama\"), Freddie Mercury (\"Queen I\"), Lynsey De Paul (\"Surprise\"), John Entwistle (\"Who By Numbers\"), Graham Coxon (\"13\" and most solo albums), Mike Shinoda (various Linkin Park albums), Joni Mitchell (\"Miles of Aisles\" and several others) as well for Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young (\"So Far\"), and M.I.A. (credited variously on Elastica's \"The Menace\", her records), and Captain Beefheart, 'Mona Bone Jakon', 'Tea for the Tillerman' and 'Teaser and the Firecat' by Cat Stevens, Mika (all albums released to date), \"Music from Big Pink\" (for The Band), \"Self Portrait\" and \"Planet Waves\" by Bob Dylan, \"Walls and Bridges\" by John Lennon.\n\nA genre of music that people have found issues in album covers is reggae. There are certain reggae artists that feel that the way they are displayed on their own album covers is not an accurate way of describing themselves and their culture. The stereotypical rasta lifestyle depicted on many reggae album covers is only displayed that way because this is what the white audience seemed to appreciate the most. This version of the reggae artists is what many people take notice of and what makes them unique in regards to other genres. However, these album covers do not accurately represent the core values of typical people in Jamaica but they deal with this representation because they know that the audience is familiar with the stereotypical rasta depiction. These album covers tend to display inauthentic versions of their considerations of style and sexuality and do not accurately display \"Uptown\" Jamaica.\nAlbum cover art was the subject of a 2013 documentary film, \"The Cover Story: Album Art\", by Eric Christensen, a San Francisco Bay Area record collector.\n\nThe physical design of album covers has been the subject of creative innovation. \"Ogden's Nut Gone Flake\" by the Small Faces was originally in a circular metal tin, and \"Happy to Meet – Sorry to Part\" by Horslips was in an octagonal package. Anyway by Family was originally issued in an opaque plastic package through which a design (a Leonardo sketch) could be seen. \"Magical Mystery Tour\" by the Beatles was first released as a double EP with a booklet between the records. \"Sgt. Pepper\" contained a cardboard sheet of images, and \"The Beatles\" (often referred to as the White Album) contained four large glossy photos of the individual Beatles along with a poster-sized collage. \"Live at Leeds\" by The Who also contained a generous supply of posters and printed material. \"Led Zeppelin III\" had a front cover that contained a revolving disc which brought different images into view through small cut-outs in the outer sleeve. A similar effect was used for the band's later album \"Physical Graffiti\" with cut-outs of the windows of a brownstone building. The original issue of \"Sticky Fingers\" by the Rolling Stones had an actual zipper incorporated into the picture of the crotch area of a pair of jeans. \"The Velvet Underground and Nico\" album had a Warhol-designed cardboard banana on the cover that could be peeled back. The record company Vertigo had a black-and-white design on the centre label that produced a hypnotic optical effect when the disc revolved on the turntable.\n\nThe album cover is a component of the overall packaging of an album. Especially in the case of vinyl records with paperboard sleeves, these packages are prone to wear and tear, although wear and tear does often take place to some degree on covers contained within plastic cases. A variety of treatments could be applied to improve both their appearance and durability, such as clear plastic wrap. Many products have been available for the storage of vinyl albums, often clear plastic sleeves.\n\nThe surface of a vinyl record is readily damaged, so aside from the outer paperboard sleeve, there is usually an inner protective cover to protect against dust and handling. This is normally shaped to allow it to readily slide within the outer cover. The inner sleeve is either thin white paper, either plain or printed with information on other recordings available from the same company, or a paper sleeve supporting a thin plastic bag. These quite often have a circular cut out so that the record label can be read without directly handling the record, though when the inner sleeve is printed with lyrics, which became quite common, then there is usually no hole. Decca Records used a system of colour-coding on these sleeves where a blue color denoted a stereophonic recording while red denoted a monophonic recording (the mono record players of the time were not always compatible with stereo records). This system was begun in the 1960s to reduce packaging costs.\n\nPackaging formats for compact discs widened the variety of presentations as well, even as the size of the CD meant that album covers were no longer so large.\n\nBesides the practicalities of identifying specific records, album covers serve the purpose of advertising the musical contents on the LP, through the use of graphic design, photography, and/or illustration. An album cover normally has the artist's name, sometimes in logo form; and the album title. Occasionally, though more common on historical vinyl records, the cover may include a reference number; a branding (the label), and possibly a track listing. Other information is seldom included on the cover, and is usually contained on the rear or interior of the packaging, such as a track listing together with a more detailed list of those involved in making the record, band members, guest performers, engineers and producer. On the \"spine\" of the package, the artist, title, and reference number are usually repeated so that albums can be identified while tightly packed on a shelf.\n\nParental advisory labels are warning labels that are required to be placed on album covers when the music on the album contains explicit content such as vulgar language. These labels have been known to be controversial when it comes to keeping underage audiences from this content. There are a few different theories on this, such as the \"forbidden fruit\" and \"tainted fruit\" theories. The \"forbidden fruit\" theory states that when a child sees the parental advisory label on an album cover they will be more likely to listen to it because there is an increased attractiveness to the music. There are many adolescents that follow the \"forbidden fruit\" theory as a way to either lash out at their parents or to make themselves feel more mature than they are. They may use explicit music as a way to be rebellious and to appear cooler to their friends, even if they are much too young to be exposed to that kind of music. The \"tainted fruit\" theory states that the child will see the label and immediately know to avoid this kind of content because it is inappropriate for their age. These children are the ones who see the label and do not even acknowledge this album or these songs because they know that it is not made for them. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) introduced this warning label and it is now a requirement on any explicit music. However, the RIAA is unable to actually control whether or not adolescents will be listening to the music but as of now there is no way to fully control what these children are doing.\nWith the increasing popularity of digital music downloading services and the inflating cost of conducting business, the purpose and prevalence of the album cover is evolving. While the music industry tries to keep up with technological and cultural shifts, the role that packaging (and thus the \"album cover\") will play in consumer music sales in the near future is uncertain, although its role is now certainly changing, including digital forms of packaging will continue to surface, which, to some degree (and to some consumers) take the place of physical packaging. Both MP3 and WMA music files are able to contain embedded digital album artworks (called cover images or simply covers) in jpeg format. , physical music products, with a physical \"album cover\", continue to outsell digital downloads.\n\nIn August 2008, album cover designer Peter Saville, responsible for cover art on albums by New Order and Roxy Music, suggested that the album cover was dead.\n\nAlternately, some artists have used Internet technology to generate even more cover art. For instance, Nine Inch Nails initially released its album \"The Slip\" as a free download on the band's website, attaching separate but thematically connected images to each individual track.\n\nOne digital solution is the iTunes LP format for interactive album artwork introduced by Apple on 9 September 2009.\n\nAlbum art is still considered a vital part of the listening experience to many, and despite the less-tangible nature of digital images, there are still many collectors trading cover art and music.\n\nSome album covers have been banned due to depicting violence, nudity, or other offensive imagery. For instance, Guns N' Roses's 1987 album \"Appetite for Destruction\"s cover depicted a robot rapist about to be punished by a metal avenger, and Kanye West's 2010 album \"My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy\" depicted West naked and being straddled by a phoenix with her bare breasts and buttocks showing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933003", "title": "Ullman", "text": "Ullman\n\nUllman is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933005", "title": "Ulmann", "text": "Ulmann\n\nUlmann is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933006", "title": "Gouttières, Puy-de-Dôme", "text": "Gouttières, Puy-de-Dôme\n\nGouttières is a commune in the Puy-de-Dôme department in Auvergne in central France.\n\nIt is located in the Combrailles part of the Auvergne \"région\", in the canton of Saint-Gervais-d'Auvergne.\n\nIts name finds its roots in the five small water streams that unite here to later join the Sioule River. Gouttières is around big and situated between 600–700 meters above sea level\n\nThe area is rural with a high conservation of wildlife and biodiversity. There is a coverage of about 30% woods and some cereal cultivation and the breeding of Charolais cattle.\n\nMost inhabitants grow their own vegetables, they have often chicken and raise rabbits and some raise their own pigs. Old fashioned farmer life slowly makes place for bigger exploitations and little by little young inhabitants are leaving or involved in other activities. Rockwool, Michelin or a Steel factory are the options to find jobs in the industry although this type of work seems to be diminishing. Some work in the service economy or even some culture activities arise, such as pottery making or art.\nAlso tourism develops. French, English and many Dutch, have bought small houses or old barns to turn them into their holiday homes.\n\nThe French and European funding helped to bring more gites and other tourist attractions to the area.\n\nThe village is known in all the \"département\" of Puy-de-Dôme for the pottery of 'la Batisse' that creates utilitarian and creative ceramic works. You can take classes in pottery or be trained on a professional artisan level.\n\nThe Dutch artist Wouter Verrips also contributes to the cultural life teaching art classes and summer courses as well exploiting a painting sculpture and printmaking studio.\n\nThe village high time is the last weekend of April when all work together to organise the pottery market of Gouttières.\nA nationwide selection of pottery makers and ceramists present their work and the event brings over 10.000 visitors to the village.\n\nThe commune is located southeast of Montluçon and northwest of Clermont-Ferrand.\n\nThe Bouble has its source in the northern part of the commune.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933008", "title": "Ulman", "text": "Ulman\n\nUlman is both a surname and a given name. Notable people with the name include:\n\nSurname:\n\nGiven name:\n\n"}
{"id": "1933013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933013", "title": "Bolesław Bronisław Duch", "text": "Bolesław Bronisław Duch\n\nBolesław Bronisław Duch (1885–1980) was a Polish Major General and General Inspector of the Armed Forces.\n\nDuch served during World War I, 1914–18, in the Polish Legions. After Poland regained independence, he served in the Polish Army. In 1935-1938 he commanded the 73rd Infantry Regiment. At the outbreak of World War II, the commander of the 39th Reserve Infantry Division General Bruno Olbrycht was ill and the division was \"de facto\" commanded by Duch.\n\nAfter Poland was overrun by Germany and the Soviet Union in September 1939, Duch managed to evade capture and served in western Europe, becoming commander successively of the Polish 1st Grenadier Division in France (1940), 1st Rifle Brigade of the 1st Polish Corps in Scotland (1942–43), and of the 3rd Carpathian Infantry Division of the 2nd Polish Corps (1943–46).\n\nIn 1947, Duch settled in London and became chairman of the Council of the World Polish Veterans' Association. He was the last General Inspector of the Armed Forces (from February 1980 until his death in October that year).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933020", "title": "Ulmer", "text": "Ulmer\n\nUlmer is a German surname meaning \"from Ulm\". Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933022", "title": "Holocaust Memorial Center", "text": "Holocaust Memorial Center\n\nThe Holocaust Memorial Center (HMC) in Farmington Hills, Michigan (near Detroit) is Michigan's only Holocaust museum.\n\nThe Holocaust Memorial Center (HMC), the first free-standing institution of its kind in the United States, was founded by CEO Rabbi Charles H. Rosenzveig with his fellow members of Shaarit Haplaytah (\"the Remnant,\" survivors of the Holocaust). It took nearly twenty years of planning and grassroots fundraising before Shaarit Haplaytah was ready to build. Ground was broken for the Holocaust Memorial Center on the property of the Jewish Community Campus at Maple and Drake Roads in West Bloomfield, Michigan, on December 6, 1981. Almost three years later, in October 1984, the Holocaust Memorial Center was dedicated and opened. When the organization outgrew its original location, it built a new museum on the grounds of the Old Orchard Theatre on Orchard Lake Road in Farmington Hills. The Center's new design received front-page coverage in the Wall Street Journal, with a headline asking, \"Should a Museum Look as Disturbing as What it Portrays?\" Since its inception, the HMC has been visited by more than one million visitors from all over the world. Tens of thousands of schoolchildren tour the museum each year and speak with a survivor of the Holocaust.\n\nRabbi Rosenzveig died on December 11, 2008, in Royal Oak, Michigan, at Beaumont Hospital as the result of heart failure. Steve Goldman served as CEO from 2009 until his retirement in February 2016, at which time he was succeeded by Rabbi Eli Mayerfeld. \n\nThe expansion on the new site consists of an expanded Holocaust Center and two new museums, designed by Neumann/Smith Architecture:\n\nThe Museum of European Jewish Heritage, the largest gallery in the HMC's Core Exhibit, provides visitors with a view of Jewish life in Europe before the Holocaust.\n\nThe goal of the Museum of European Jewish Heritage is to educate visitors about the culture and way of life that were destroyed by the perpetrators of the Holocaust, aiming to kindle an awareness of the ethical, moral, spiritual, educational and cultural contributions of the Jewish people, and thereby promote inter-cultural understanding. The museum contains a Timeline of Jewish History, which details the contributions of each major community of Jews, organized by country and historical period, including names, pictures and the nature of individual contributions by authors, artists, communal leaders and institutions. In addition to the Timeline, the history of European Jewish culture is documented through artwork, maps, photographs, audio-visual presentations and a shtetl replica.\n\nThe International Institute of the Righteous (IIR) provides visitors with a look at the people and institutions who performed acts of altruism in history in the face of evil or great danger.\n\nThe IIR pays tribute to those who have rescued and supported their fellow human beings, even at great risk to themselves and their families. Exhibits include portraits and individual biographies together with governmental and organizational histories that highlight altruistic acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1933024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933024", "title": "Menaceur", "text": "Menaceur\n\nMenaceur is a small town and commune in Algeria, situated about 100 km west of Algiers. Menaceur has a population of 40,000. The Bouchanoun River passes through Menaceur. Nearby mountains include Zabrir, el Pic, Boumaad, and Tizi Franco.\n\nMenaceur is known for its fight against French colonization. Tizi Franco, where French troops were ambushed in 1957, deeply influenced French army tactics in the region.\n\n1 - Introduction\n\nFollowing the example of resistance, popular uprisings and revolts that marked the nineteenth century and encompassed various parts of Algeria, the resistance of Beni Menaceur, Miliana and Cherchell between July 14 and August 21, 1871 was the One of the links in the chain revolts. Like all revolutions that preceded it, it was underpinned by the causes and circumstances which, although they were mostly particular, remain virtually unchanged. 2 - Because of the resistance of Beni Menaceur Among the main reasons that prompted the outbreak of the revolt, is the policy of colonialism French based on injustice, oppression, repression and the plundering of private and public property, along with the adoption by the French authorities of the policy of \"divide and conquer\" in an attempt to reconcile the benevolence of some families which it entrusted the mission to look after its interests at the expense of the majority of residents. In this region, the colonial authorities were able to create from scratch a conflict between two Algerian families: on the one hand that of Brahim Sa'îd ibn Mohammed El Ghobrini, which was one of the families from the outset collaborated with the authorities Tenure and taken up arms against the Titteri Bey and the Bey Boumezrag and another family of El Berkani whose stronghold was located Miliana and which was headed by Sheikh al Malek ibn al Berkani Sahraoui, nephew Mohammed Ben Aissa el Berkani, khalifa (*) The Emir Abdelkader in Titteri. Following France's policy, the two families went down in a bloody conflict all that the family commissioned an El Berkani eastern part of Beni Menaceur, something that El Ghobrini the family did not accept. To this should be added the suffering of the people of Cherchell Miliana and as a result of the colonial policy based on the forced collection of taxes, which drain resources and damage to their most sacred values in matters of religion. 3 - Steps resistance Beni Ménaceur The first spark of resistance springs on April 30, 1871 when the colonial authorities undertook to provoke the people by ordering gang bosses that they were subjected to collect the taxes without taking into account the tragic conditions of the inhabitants. Residents expressed their refusal by hunting with stones agents of colonialism. -- 1 - First step: The chouyouks (*) of Beni Menaceur found it necessary to hold an extraordinary meeting to discuss the social and economic situation in the region arising from the French policy. On May 6, 1871 was the date fixed for the meeting to kubba (*) of the saint Sidi Ahmed Benyoucef, near the region of Souk el Had.\n\nThe meeting s'achev on the decision, as a first step, to assassinate gang bosses allied to France. All present agreed on the need to eliminate El Mouloud El Habbouchi, regarded as the man in the hand of France in the region. However, France, rightly fearing the reaction of people worked to get his resignation and he was replaced on 20 May 187, by Mohammed Said El Ghobrini, which was on the list of people to be slaughtered and prepared by the participants of the meeting, May 6, 1871. The designation of the latter provoked discontent and anger of the people whose chouyoukhs met again on 28 and 29 June 1871 for agreeing to assassinate Said El Ghobrini. However, the chairman of the bureau Arabic, Mr VARLOUD, prevented this by the appointment of a new caïd, namely Mouloud El Ben Abidi, who was also rejected because he did not belong to the region of Beni Menasra . But the Governor General De Gueydon maintained his decision to appoint Ben El Mouloud, which ratcheted up the discontent of the people against this policy.\n\n-2 - The second stage\n\nLassés of politics Governor General De Gueydon, residents of Beni Menaceur decided to move to the crucial stage of the battle, July 13, 1871. The starting point was the region Théniet el Had, and the movement spread to the villages and causing dechras popular support. Ben Abidi and Mouloud El Said El Ghobrini quickly to inform the colonial authorities of this popular movement and what happened at the meeting at which the decision was taken revolutionary. This enabled the French authorities to take measures to cope with the events.\n\n-3 - Third stage\n\nIt was imperative for the elders and chouyoukhs of Beni Menaceur to take steps as soon as possible in order not to lose the leadership of the business and provide an opportunity for the occupation authorities to nip in the bud the revolt. To this end, it was agreed to appoint Sheikh Malek El Berkani, as leader after the betrayal of El Ghobrini and Ben Mouloud El was proved. The title of agha fighters he was awarded and the troops were divided into three groups:\n\n-- The main group headed by Malek El Berkani, assisted by his brother and Brahim Mustapha ibn Mohammed Oudjelloul Abdelmalek and was given the task to head on Cherchell, headquarters of the occupation authority and the attack.\n\n-- A second group, called Beni Menaceur East, the command was given to Oukerjouj Ali ibn Ahmed, a friend of El Berkani and that was one of the prominent leaders of the revolt, was instructed to head for the region Zourikh .\n-- A third group, called Blessed Ménaceur West whose command was given to Ahmed Ouddadi, attended by heads of douars and dechras and was to head for the region Noufi. This step was also characterized by the letters sent by El Berkani Malek, head of the revolt, in many areas, to encourage them to undertake the holy war against infidels. He obtained and the rallying of Kaddour Ben El Moubarek of Koléa and Abdelkader Ben El Mokhtar of Miliana, two strong personalities whose rallying gave a new impetus to revolt, and allowed the fighters to carry out numerous attacks against the enemy and its allies July 17, 1871. Indeed, they faced a troupe led military VARLOUD Captain in the region of Noufi. From there, they headed towards Hadjout, burned the hotel Hammam Righa and killed many French. Faced with the growing phenomenon of revolts and their intensification, the French authorities were forced to send additional troops to Koléa under the command of Colonel DESANDRE. However, these reinforcements n'entamèrent not the determination of fighters led by El Berkani since managed to extend the revolt in the region of Hadjout, coming to the ends of the Capital. During this stage, the revolt recorded many victories against the French and their allies. So on July 23, a number of settlers were killed and burned their factories including a mill and oil, along with fires farms settlers and their plantations erected at the expense of local residents. The day of July 25, 1871 was characterized by attacks by fighters against the troops. This day also took place at the Battle of Bellagh Oued, near Mount Chenoua, at the end of which the combatants were victorious, and they managed to cut water supply to the City of Cherchell and burn some farms of settlers whose firm Nicolas.\n4 - Consequences of Resistance of Beni Menaceur\n\nThe French authorities acquired the conviction that to deal with this uprising, intensified its military presence was necessary. To this end, order was given to its land and sea forces attacking hotbeds of revolt. They came so Miliana, Algiers and Béjaïa under the command of the officer PONSARK. In addition, the French troops led by the officer BOUSQUET, and supported by the escort LAVISO-KLEBER and did DESAX route to the affected areas. From this imbalance in the balance of power, it resulted: -- The death on the field of honour of the leader Malek El Berkani on 2 August 1871 during a battle near the region Zourikh. -- The destruction of the zaouia El Berkani at Miliana. -- The succession of his brother Ibrahim at the head of the revolt he continued committing several battles between 19 and August 20. -- The surrender of the latter on August 21, 1871, which put an end to the revolt. -- The families of the rebels were subjected to severe penalties, including the confiscation of their land, the destruction of their homes, the burning of their property and judgement of many of them by the courts martial and their sentences ranging from life imprisonment with forced labor and deportation.\n\nMade by: Brehim Hendi\n"}
{"id": "1933027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933027", "title": "Fabius Stanly", "text": "Fabius Stanly\n\nFabius Maximus Stanly (15 December 1815 – 5 December 1882) was a rear admiral of the United States Navy, who served during the Mexican and Civil Wars.\nStanly was born on 15 December 1815 in New Bern, North Carolina. He was appointed midshipman on 20 December 1831. He was promoted to lieutenant on 8 September 1841. During the Mexican War, he was assigned to the Pacific Squadron and participated in the capture of California and the defense of San Francisco. He also took part in several land raids and, on one occasion, led a party of 30 sailors on a cannon-spiking raid in the midst of 1,500 enemy troops. He completed his mission successfully, returning to the boats with all his wounded and some prisoners to boot.\n\nPromoted to commander at the outset of the Civil War, he served in the Pacific Squadron until 1864. At that time, he was given command of the side-wheel steamer and cruised off the coast of South Carolina for the duration of the war. Stanly was commissioned captain on 25 July 1866, commodore on 1 July 1870, and rear admiral on 12 February 1874. He was retired from the Navy on 4 June 1874 and died in Washington, D.C., on 5 December 1882.\n\nIn 1941, the destroyer was named in his honor.\n"}
{"id": "1933036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933036", "title": "No. 133 Squadron RAF", "text": "No. 133 Squadron RAF\n\n133 Squadron RAF was one of the famous Eagle Squadrons formed from American volunteers serving with the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War.\n\n133 Squadron was first formed in 1918 at RAF Ternhill. It was a training unit for the Handley Page O/400, flying the Royal Aircraft Factory F.E.2, that was expected to move to France, but was disbanded on 4 July 1918. Various attempts to reform as both a bomber and fighter squadron were all abandoned as the end of the First World War approached.\n\nIt was reformed at RAF Coltishall in July 1941 as the third of the Eagle squadrons, equipped with Hawker Hurricane IIB fighters. It transferred to RAF Duxford in August, and by October was at RAF Eglinton, County Londonderry in Northern Ireland, where it was equipped with Supermarine Spitfire IIAs. It then transferred back to the south-east England including time at RAF Biggin Hill. The squadron ran fighter sweeps over France until September 1942 when it was transferred to the USAAF and became the 336th Fighter Squadron of the 4th Fighter Group.\n\nIn November 1941, while the squadron was based in Northern Ireland (see above), one of its pilots – Pilot Officer Roland \"Bud\" Wolfe of Nebraska – crashed in the Republic of Ireland. Because the republic was officially neutral throughout the war, Wolfe was interned.\n\nWhile he was on patrol near the Inishowen peninsula, the engine of Wolfe's Spitfire suddenly overheated and began to lose power and altitude. As he was unable to land safely, Wolfe decided to abandon his aircraft. After bailing out, he landed in County Donegal. His Spitfire crashed in a heather-covered area of Moneydarragh, Gleneely.\n\nAfter being arrested, Wolfe was sent to Curragh Camp, where Allied military aviators were interned by the Irish government during the war. Wolfe spent two years in the camp, before he was able to return to active service as a fighter pilot (by which time both he and his squadron had been officially transferred to the United States Army Air Forces).\n\nOn 28 June 2011, Wolfe's Spitfire was recovered by a team led by aviation historian Johnny McNee. The recovery was filmed for documentary purposes by the BBC.\n\nIn the 2005 episode of \"Doctor Who\" \"The Empty Child\", Jack Harkness, from the 51st century, poses as a volunteer in the squadron during 1941.\n\n"}
{"id": "1933042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933042", "title": "Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute", "text": "Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute\n\nThe Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (\"TAWIRI\") is a state-run body which organizes wildlife research in Tanzania. The Institute is under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933047", "title": "U96", "text": "U96\n\nU96 is a German music project formed by the DJ and producer Alex Christensen and a team of producers named Matiz (Ingo Hauss, Helmut Hoinkis, and Hayo Lewerentz). In 2018, the project was rebooted, without Christensen and Hoinkis.\n\nThe name of the project comes from the film \"Das Boot\" about the German submarine \"U-96\" from the Second World War. The project's first hit, \"Das Boot\" (1991), is a techno adaptation of the film's title melody, which had been originally composed by Klaus Doldinger. An album of the same name was also released.\n\nIts next album, \"Replugged\" (1993) was inspired by the electro sounds of the 1980s and by ambient and disco music themes. It was less commercially successful than the first album, but provided three Top 10 hits in \"Love Sees No Colour\", \"Night in Motion\" and \"Inside Your Dreams\", which peaked at number 1 in Finland. Although uncredited, Ingo Hauss provided most male vocals for this album, and for most subsequent U96 albums also.\n\nThe follow-up album \"Club Bizarre\" (1995) radically changed the group's sound. The album was dominated by a fast-paced Eurodance sound with a significant rave influence. The hit single releases from this album were \"Love Religion\" (with Daisy Dee) as well as the title track \"Club Bizarre\" with harmonies, which was reused later by Brooklyn Bounce. Motor Music also released the \"Club Bizarre Interactive CD-ROM\". The audio part of this CD-ROM included several music tracks and the multimedia part featuring a discography, interviews with Alex Christensen, and a game for Mac OS and Windows PC.\n\nIn 1996, its fourth album, \"Heaven\", was released. The album was highly commercial in sound, with greater emphasis on Eurodance, despite retaining some electro and Rave influences. On this album, a new singer, Dea-Li (Dorothy Lapi), was featured, who participated in the production of four titles. The refrain in the song Heaven—although with a faster pace and different text—closely resembles Cyndi Lauper's 1984 hit song “Time After Time.” The second single from this album, \"A Night to Remember\", was a top 20 hit in Austria and Finland. And the final single, \"Venus in Chains\" peaked at number 7 in Czech Republic.\n\nIn the following single releases were \"Seven Wonders\" (1997), \"Energie\" (1998), \"Beweg Dich, Baby\" (1998) and \"Das Boot 2001\" (2000). The group released the compilation album \"Best Of 1991–2001\" with some new songs from the unreleased album \"Rhythm Of Life\". The last track \"We Call It Love\" was issued in 2003 as a promo single only. The group returned to the German Top 30 in 2006 with \"Vorbei,\" which featured the vocals of guest singer Ben.\n\nAnother album, \"Out of Wilhelmsburg\", was released in 2007, albeit with a different group lineup.\n\nOn June 29, 2018 U96 released REBOOT, a double album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933053", "title": "LFG", "text": "LFG\n\nLFG is an abbreviation for:\n"}
{"id": "1933054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933054", "title": "Highland Railway W Class", "text": "Highland Railway W Class\n\nThe Highland Railway W class were four small 0-4-4T locomotives built by the Highland Railway in 1905–1906 to the design of locomotive superintendent Peter Drummond. They were the last engines that were built at the company's Lochgorm works in Inverness, and were used on branch line services.\n\n\"Dunrobin\" was an 0-4-4T built in 1895 by Sharp, Stewart & Co. for the 4th Duke of Sutherland. The W class were near-clones of \"Dunrobin\".\n\nAll four locomotives passed to the LMS in 1923, where they were numbered 15051–15054 and given power classification '0P'. Locomotive 15052 was withdrawn in 1930, and 15054 followed in 1945, but the other two survived to become British Railways 55051 and 55053. These spent their final years based at Helmsdale for working the Dornoch Light Railway, which required locomotives with exceptionally light axle loadings. By the time they were finally withdrawn (in 1956 and 1957 respectively) they were the last former Highland Railway locomotives still in use, and were still in almost original condition.\n\nIn order to replace these locomotives, British Railways transferred two GWR 1600 Class 0-6-0PT locomotives (numbers 1646 and 1649) to Helmsdale to work the Dornoch Light Railway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1933058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933058", "title": "1829 papal conclave", "text": "1829 papal conclave\n\nThe papal conclave of 1829 to elect a successor to Pope Leo XII after his death on 10 February 1829 began on 24 February 1829.\n\nIt took a long time for the conclave to elect a new pope due to conflict between secular governments concerning who should be elected. Cardinal Emmanuele De Gregorio was the proposed candidate of the pro-French faction and the \"zelanti\" (conservative cardinals), whilst Bartolomeo Pacca was proposed by the more moderate cardinals but was not accepted by the French government of the Bourbon Restoration period. At the time, France was governed by Charles X and Prime Minister Jean Baptiste Gay, vicomte de Martignac. Pacca was also seen by many in the conclave as being too gentle to be an effective Pope.\n\nThe conclave did not move rapidly. The arrival of Giuseppe Albani caused the votes to center on Francesco Saverio Castiglioni. With the supporters of both De Gregorio and of Pacca unable to secure enough votes to elect their candidate to the papacy, Castiglioni came to be seen as a suitable compromise candidate. Castiglioni had been close to election in the 1823 conclave as the representative of the \"politicanti\" (moderate cardinals) and had all the qualifications to become Pope, though he had the problem of being in very poor health, but was not elected at the last conclave when the \"zelanti\" Cardinals came to realize that he was quite close to Cardinal Ercole Consalvi. Consalvi however was already dead by the time of the 1829 conclave having died during the pontificate of Pope Leo XII.\n\nOn 31 March Castiglioni was elected Pope. Given that Castiglioni had been called Pius VIII by Pope Pius VII even before his death in 1823, and that in the 1823 conclave Leo XII had said that Castiglioni \"some day was to be Pius VIII\", it was a foregone conclusion that he would take that regnal name upon becoming Pope.\n"}
