{"id": "1916598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916598", "title": "Spanish conquest of Guatemala", "text": "Spanish conquest of Guatemala\n\nThe Spanish conquest of Guatemala was a protracted conflict during the Spanish colonization of the Americas, in which Spanish colonisers gradually incorporated the territory that became the modern country of Guatemala into the colonial Viceroyalty of New Spain. Before the conquest, this territory contained a number of competing Mesoamerican kingdoms, the majority of which were Maya. Many conquistadors viewed the Maya as \"infidels\" who needed to be forcefully converted and pacified, disregarding the achievements of their civilization. The first contact between the Maya and European explorers came in the early 16th century when a Spanish ship sailing from Panama to Santo Domingo was wrecked on the east coast of the Yucatán Peninsula in 1511. Several Spanish expeditions followed in 1517 and 1519, making landfall on various parts of the Yucatán coast. The Spanish conquest of the Maya was a prolonged affair; the Maya kingdoms resisted integration into the Spanish Empire with such tenacity that their defeat took almost two centuries.\n\nPedro de Alvarado arrived in Guatemala from the newly conquered Mexico in early 1524, commanding a mixed force of Spanish conquistadors and native allies, mostly from Tlaxcala and Cholula. Geographic features across Guatemala now bear Nahuatl placenames owing to the influence of these Mexican allies, who translated for the Spanish. The Kaqchikel Maya initially allied themselves with the Spanish, but soon rebelled against excessive demands for tribute and did not finally surrender until 1530. In the meantime the other major highland Maya kingdoms had each been defeated in turn by the Spanish and allied warriors from Mexico and already subjugated Maya kingdoms in Guatemala. The Itza Maya and other lowland groups in the Petén Basin were first contacted by Hernán Cortés in 1525, but remained independent and hostile to the encroaching Spanish until 1697, when a concerted Spanish assault led by Martín de Ursúa y Arizmendi finally defeated the last independent Maya kingdom.\n\nSpanish and native tactics and technology differed greatly. The Spanish viewed the taking of prisoners as a hindrance to outright victory, whereas the Maya prioritised the capture of live prisoners and of booty. The indigenous peoples of Guatemala lacked key elements of Old World technology such as a functional wheel, horses, iron, steel, and gunpowder; they were also extremely susceptible to Old World diseases, against which they had no resistance. The Maya preferred raiding and ambush to large-scale warfare, using spears, arrows and wooden swords with inset obsidian blades; the Xinca of the southern coastal plain used poison on their arrows. In response to the use of Spanish cavalry, the highland Maya took to digging pits and lining them with wooden stakes.\n\nThe sources describing the Spanish conquest of Guatemala include those written by the Spanish themselves, among them two of four letters written by conquistador Pedro de Alvarado to Hernán Cortés in 1524, describing the initial campaign to subjugate the Guatemalan Highlands. These letters were despatched to Tenochtitlan, addressed to Cortés but with a royal audience in mind; two of these letters are now lost. Gonzalo de Alvarado y Chávez was Pedro de Alvarado's cousin; he accompanied him on his first campaign in Guatemala and in 1525 he became the chief constable of Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala, the newly founded Spanish capital. Gonzalo wrote an account that mostly supports that of Pedro de Alvarado. Pedro de Alvarado's brother Jorge wrote another account to the king of Spain that explained it was his own campaign of 1527–1529 that established the Spanish colony. Bernal Díaz del Castillo wrote a lengthy account of the conquest of Mexico and neighbouring regions, the \"Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España\" (\"True History of the Conquest of New Spain\"); his account of the conquest of Guatemala generally agrees with that of the Alvarados. His account was finished around 1568, some 40 years after the campaigns it describes. Hernán Cortés described his expedition to Honduras in the fifth letter of his \"Cartas de Relación\", in which he details his crossing of what is now Guatemala's Petén Department. Dominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas wrote a highly critical account of the Spanish conquest of the Americas and included accounts of some incidents in Guatemala. The \"Brevísima Relación de la Destrucción de las Indias\" (\"Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\") was first published in 1552 in Seville.\n\nThe Tlaxcalan allies of the Spanish who accompanied them in their invasion of Guatemala wrote their own accounts of the conquest; these included a letter to the Spanish king protesting at their poor treatment once the campaign was over. Other accounts were in the form of questionnaires answered before colonial magistrates to protest and register a claim for recompense. Two pictorial accounts painted in the stylised indigenous pictographic tradition have survived; these are the \"Lienzo de Quauhquechollan\", which was probably painted in Ciudad Vieja in the 1530s, and the \"Lienzo de Tlaxcala\", painted in Tlaxcala.\n\nAccounts of the conquest as seen from the point of view of the defeated highland Maya kingdoms are included in a number of indigenous documents, including the \"Annals of the Kaqchikels\", which includes the Xajil Chronicle describing the history of the Kaqchikel from their mythical creation down through the Spanish conquest and continuing to 1619. A letter from the defeated Tzʼutujil Maya nobility of Santiago Atitlán to the Spanish king written in 1571 details the exploitation of the subjugated peoples.\n\nFrancisco Antonio de Fuentes y Guzmán was a colonial Guatemalan historian of Spanish descent who wrote \"La Recordación Florida\", also called \"Historia de Guatemala\" (\"History of Guatemala\"). The book was written in 1690 and is regarded as one of the most important works of Guatemalan history, and is the first such book to have been written by a criollo author. Field investigation has tended to support the estimates of indigenous population and army sizes given by Fuentes y Guzmán.\n\nChristopher Columbus discovered the New World for the Kingdom of Castile and Leon in 1492. Private adventurers thereafter entered into contracts with the Spanish Crown to conquer the newly discovered lands in return for tax revenues and the power to rule. In the first decades after the discovery of the new lands, the Spanish colonised the Caribbean and established a centre of operations on the island of Cuba. They heard rumours of the rich empire of the Aztecs on the mainland to the west and, in 1519, Hernán Cortés set sail with eleven ships to explore the Mexican coast. By August 1521 the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan had fallen to the Spanish. A single soldier arriving in Mexico in 1520 was carrying smallpox and thus initiated the devastating plagues that swept through the native populations of the Americas. Within three years of the fall of Tenochtitlan the Spanish had conquered a large part of Mexico, extending as far south as the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. The newly conquered territory became New Spain, headed by a viceroy who answered to the king of Spain via the Council of the Indies. Hernán Cortés received reports of rich, populated lands to the south and dispatched Pedro de Alvarado to investigate the region.\n\nIn the run up to the announcement that an invasion force was to be sent to Guatemala, 10,000 Nahua warriors had already been assembled by the Aztec emperor Cuauhtémoc to accompany the Spanish expedition. Warriors were ordered to be gathered from each of the Mexica and Tlaxcaltec towns. The native warriors supplied their own weapons, including swords, clubs and bows and arrows. Alvarado's army left Tenochtitlan at the beginning of the dry season, sometime between the second half of November and December 1523. As Alvarado left the Aztec capital, he led about 400 Spanish and approximately 200 Tlaxcaltec and Cholultec warriors and 100 Mexica, meeting up with the gathered reinforcements on the way. When the army left the Basin of Mexico, it may have included as many as 20,000 native warriors from various kingdoms although the exact numbers are disputed. By the time the army crossed the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, the massed native warriors included 800 from Tlaxcala, 400 from Huejotzingo, 1600 from Tepeaca plus many more from other former Aztec territories. Further Mesoamerican warriors were recruited from the Zapotec and Mixtec provinces, with the addition of more Nahuas from the Aztec garrison in Soconusco.\n\nIn the early 16th century the territory that now makes up Guatemala was divided into various competing polities, each locked in continual struggle with its neighbours. The most important were the Kʼicheʼ, the Kaqchikel, the Tzʼutujil, the Chajoma, the Mam, the Poqomam and the Pipil. All were Maya groups except for the Pipil, who were a Nahua group related to the Aztecs; the Pipil had a number of small city-states along the Pacific coastal plain of southern Guatemala and El Salvador. The Pipil of Guatemala had their capital at Itzcuintepec. The Xinca were another non-Maya group occupying the southeastern Pacific coastal area. The Maya had never been unified as a single empire, but by the time the Spanish arrived Maya civilization was thousands of years old and had already seen the rise and fall of great cities.\n\nOn the eve of the conquest the highlands of Guatemala were dominated by several powerful Maya states. In the centuries preceding the arrival of the Spanish the Kʼicheʼ had carved out a small empire covering a large part of the western Guatemalan Highlands and the neighbouring Pacific coastal plain. However, in the late 15th century the Kaqchikel rebelled against their former Kʼicheʼ allies and founded a new kingdom to the southeast with Iximche as its capital. In the decades before the Spanish invasion the Kaqchikel kingdom had been steadily eroding the kingdom of the Kʼicheʼ. Other highland groups included the Tzʼutujil around Lake Atitlán, the Mam in the western highlands and the Poqomam in the eastern highlands.\n\nThe kingdom of the Itza was the most powerful polity in the Petén lowlands of northern Guatemala, centred on their capital Nojpetén, on an island in Lake Petén Itzá. The second polity in importance was that of their hostile neighbours, the Kowoj. The Kowoj were located to the east of the Itza, around the eastern lakes: Lake Salpetén, Lake Macanché, Lake Yaxhá and Lake Sacnab. Other groups are less well known and their precise territorial extent and political makeup remains obscure; among them were the Chinamita, the Kejache, the Icaiche, the Lakandon Chʼol, the Mopan, the Manche Chʼol and the Yalain. The Kejache occupied an area north of the lake on the route to Campeche, while the Mopan and the Chinamita had their polities in the southeastern Petén. The Manche territory was to the southwest of the Mopan. The Yalain had their territory immediately to the east of Lake Petén Itzá.\n\nMaya warfare was not so much aimed at destruction of the enemy as the seizure of captives and plunder. The Spanish described the weapons of war of the Petén Maya as bows and arrows, fire-sharpened poles, flint-headed spears and two-handed swords crafted from strong wood with the blade fashioned from inset obsidian, similar to the Aztec \"macuahuitl\". Pedro de Alvarado described how the Xinca of the Pacific coast attacked the Spanish with spears, stakes and poisoned arrows. Maya warriors wore body armour in the form of quilted cotton that had been soaked in salt water to toughen it; the resulting armour compared favourably to the steel armour worn by the Spanish. The Maya had historically employed ambush and raiding as their preferred tactic, and its employment against the Spanish proved troublesome for the Europeans. In response to the use of cavalry, the highland Maya took to digging pits on the roads, lining them with fire-hardened stakes and camouflaging them with grass and weeds, a tactic that according to the Kaqchikel killed many horses.\n\nThe conquistadors were all volunteers, the majority of whom did not receive a fixed salary but instead a portion of the spoils of victory, in the form of precious metals, land grants and provision of native labour. Many of the Spanish were already experienced soldiers who had previously campaigned in Europe. The initial incursion into Guatemala was led by Pedro de Alvarado, who earned the military title of \"Adelantado\" in 1527; he answered to the Spanish crown via Hernán Cortés in Mexico. Other early conquistadors included Pedro de Alvarado's brothers Gómez de Alvarado, Jorge de Alvarado and Gonzalo de Alvarado y Contreras; and his cousins Gonzalo de Alvarado y Chávez, Hernando de Alvarado and Diego de Alvarado. Pedro de Portocarrero was a nobleman who joined the initial invasion. Bernal Díaz del Castillo was a petty nobleman who accompanied Hernán Cortés when he crossed the northern lowlands, and Pedro de Alvarado on his invasion of the highlands. In addition to Spaniards, the invasion force probably included dozens of armed African slaves and freemen.\n\nSpanish weaponry and tactics differed greatly from that of the indigenous peoples of Guatemala. This included the Spanish use of crossbows, firearms (including muskets and cannon), war dogs and war horses. Among Mesoamerican peoples the capture of prisoners was a priority, while to the Spanish such taking of prisoners was a hindrance to outright victory. The inhabitants of Guatemala, for all their sophistication, lacked key elements of Old World technology, such as the use of iron and steel and functional wheels. The use of steel swords was perhaps the greatest technological advantage held by the Spanish, although the deployment of cavalry helped them to rout indigenous armies on occasion. The Spanish were sufficiently impressed by the quilted cotton armour of their Maya enemies that they adopted it in preference to their own steel armour. The conquistadors applied a more effective military organisation and strategic awareness than their opponents, allowing them to deploy troops and supplies in a way that increased the Spanish advantage.\n\nIn Guatemala the Spanish routinely fielded indigenous allies; at first these were Nahua brought from the recently conquered Mexico, later they also included Maya. It is estimated that for every Spaniard on the field of battle, there were at least 10 native auxiliaries. Sometimes there were as many as 30 indigenous warriors for every Spaniard, and it was the participation of these Mesoamerican allies that was particularly decisive. In at least one case, \"encomienda\" rights were granted to one of the Tlaxcalan leaders who came as allies, and land grants and exemption from being given in \"encomienda\" were given to the Mexican allies as rewards for their participation in the conquest. In practice, such privileges were easily removed or sidestepped by the Spanish and the indigenous conquistadors were treated in a similar manner to the conquered natives.\n\nThe Spanish engaged in a strategy of concentrating native populations in newly founded colonial towns, or \"reducciones\" (also known as \"congregaciones\"). Native resistance to the new nucleated settlements took the form of the flight of the indigenous inhabitants into inaccessible regions such as mountains and forests.\n\nEpidemics accidentally introduced by the Spanish included smallpox, measles and influenza. These diseases, together with typhus and yellow fever, had a major impact on Maya populations. The Old World diseases brought with the Spanish and against which the indigenous New World peoples had no resistance were a deciding factor in the conquest; the diseases crippled armies and decimated populations before battles were even fought. Their introduction was catastrophic in the Americas; it is estimated that 90% of the indigenous population had been eliminated by disease within the first century of European contact.\n\nIn 1519 and 1520, before the arrival of the Spanish in the region, a number of epidemics swept through southern Guatemala. At the same time as the Spanish were occupied with the overthrow of the Aztec empire, a devastating plague struck the Kaqchikel capital of Iximche, and the city of Qʼumarkaj, capital of the Kʼicheʼ, may also have suffered from the same epidemic. It is likely that the same combination of smallpox and a pulmonary plague swept across the entire Guatemalan Highlands. Modern knowledge of the impact of these diseases on populations with no prior exposure suggests that 33–50% of the population of the highlands perished. Population levels in the Guatemalan Highlands did not recover to their pre-conquest levels until the middle of the 20th century. In 1666 pestilence or murine typhus swept through what is now the department of Huehuetenango. Smallpox was reported in San Pedro Saloma, in 1795. At the time of the fall of Nojpetén in 1697, there are estimated to have been 60,000 Maya living around Lake Petén Itzá, including a large number of refugees from other areas. It is estimated that 88% of them died during the first ten years of colonial rule owing to a combination of disease and war.\n\nThe conquest of the highlands was made difficult by the many independent polities in the region, rather than one powerful enemy to be defeated as was the case in central Mexico. After the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan fell to the Spanish in 1521, the Kaqchikel Maya of Iximche sent envoys to Hernán Cortés to declare their allegiance to the new ruler of Mexico, and the Kʼicheʼ Maya of Qʼumarkaj may also have sent a delegation. In 1522 Cortés sent Mexican allies to scout the Soconusco region of lowland Chiapas, where they met new delegations from Iximche and Qʼumarkaj at Tuxpán; both of the powerful highland Maya kingdoms declared their loyalty to the king of Spain. But Cortés' allies in Soconusco soon informed him that the Kʼicheʼ and the Kaqchikel were not loyal, and were instead harassing Spain's allies in the region. Cortés decided to despatch Pedro de Alvarado with 180 cavalry, 300 infantry, crossbows, muskets, 4 cannons, large amounts of ammunition and gunpowder, and thousands of allied Mexican warriors from Tlaxcala, Cholula and other cities in central Mexico; they arrived in Soconusco in 1523. Pedro de Alvarado was infamous for the massacre of Aztec nobles in Tenochtitlan and, according to Bartolomé de las Casas, he committed further atrocities in the conquest of the Maya kingdoms in Guatemala. Some groups remained loyal to the Spanish once they had submitted to the conquest, such as the Tzʼutujil and the Kʼicheʼ of Quetzaltenango, and provided them with warriors to assist further conquest. Other groups soon rebelled however, and by 1526 numerous rebellions had engulfed the highlands.\n\nPedro de Alvarado and his army advanced along the Pacific coast unopposed until they reached the Samalá River in western Guatemala. This region formed a part of the Kʼicheʼ kingdom, and a Kʼicheʼ army tried unsuccessfully to prevent the Spanish from crossing the river. Once across, the conquistadors ransacked nearby settlements in an effort to terrorise the Kʼicheʼ. On 8 February 1524 Alvarado's army fought a battle at Xetulul, called Zapotitlán by his Mexican allies (modern San Francisco Zapotitlán). Although suffering many injuries inflicted by defending Kʼicheʼ archers, the Spanish and their allies stormed the town and set up camp in the marketplace. Alvarado then turned to head upriver into the Sierra Madre mountains towards the Kʼicheʼ heartlands, crossing the pass into the fertile valley of Quetzaltenango. On 12 February 1524 Alvarado's Mexican allies were ambushed in the pass and driven back by Kʼicheʼ warriors but the Spanish cavalry charge that followed was a shock for the Kʼicheʼ, who had never before seen horses. The cavalry scattered the Kʼicheʼ and the army crossed to the city of Xelaju (modern Quetzaltenango) only to find it deserted. Although the common view is that the Kʼicheʼ prince Tecun Uman died in the later battle near Olintepeque, the Spanish accounts are clear that at least one and possibly two of the lords of Qʼumarkaj died in the fierce battles upon the initial approach to Quetzaltenango. The death of Tecun Uman is said to have taken place in the battle of El Pinar, and local tradition has his death taking place on the Llanos de Urbina (Plains of Urbina), upon the approach to Quetzaltenango near the modern village of Cantel. Pedro de Alvarado, in his third letter to Hernán Cortés, describes the death of one of the four lords of Qʼumarkaj upon the approach to Quetzaltenango. The letter was dated 11 April 1524 and was written during his stay at Qʼumarkaj. Almost a week later, on 18 February 1524, a Kʼicheʼ army confronted the Spanish army in the Quetzaltenango valley and were comprehensively defeated; many Kʼicheʼ nobles were among the dead. Such were the numbers of Kʼicheʼ dead that Olintepeque was given the name \"Xequiquel\", roughly meaning \"bathed in blood\". In the early 17th century, the grandson of the Kʼicheʼ king informed the alcalde mayor (the highest colonial official at the time) that the Kʼicheʼ army that had marched out of Qʼumarkaj to confront the invaders numbered 30,000 warriors, a claim that is considered credible by modern scholars. This battle exhausted the Kʼicheʼ militarily and they asked for peace and offered tribute, inviting Pedro de Alvarado into their capital Qʼumarkaj, which was known as Tecpan Utatlan to the Nahuatl-speaking allies of the Spanish. Alvarado was deeply suspicious of the Kʼicheʼ intentions but accepted the offer and marched to Qʼumarkaj with his army.\n\nThe day after the battle of Olintepeque, the Spanish army arrived at Tzakahá, which submitted peacefully. There the Spanish chaplains Juan Godinez and Juan Díaz conducted a Roman Catholic mass under a makeshift roof; this site was chosen to build the first church in Guatemala, which was dedicated to Concepción La Conquistadora. Tzakahá was renamed as San Luis Salcajá. The first Easter mass held in Guatemala was celebrated in the new church, during which high-ranking natives were baptised.\nIn March 1524 Pedro de Alvarado entered Qʼumarkaj at the invitation of the remaining lords of the Kʼicheʼ after their catastrophic defeat, fearing that he was entering a trap. He encamped on the plain outside the city rather than accepting lodgings inside. Fearing the great number of Kʼicheʼ warriors gathered outside the city and that his cavalry would not be able to manoeuvre in the narrow streets of Qʼumarkaj, he invited the leading lords of the city, Oxib-Keh (the \"ajpop\", or king) and Beleheb-Tzy (the \"ajpop kʼamha\", or king elect) to visit him in his camp. As soon as they did so, he seized them and kept them as prisoners in his camp. The Kʼicheʼ warriors, seeing their lords taken prisoner, attacked the Spaniards' indigenous allies and managed to kill one of the Spanish soldiers. At this point Alvarado decided to have the captured Kʼicheʼ lords burnt to death, and then proceeded to burn the entire city. After the destruction of Qʼumarkaj and the execution of its rulers, Pedro de Alvarado sent messages to Iximche, capital of the Kaqchikel, proposing an alliance against the remaining Kʼicheʼ resistance. Alvarado wrote that they sent 4000 warriors to assist him, although the Kaqchikel recorded that they sent only 400.\n\nWith the capitulation of the Kʼicheʼ kingdom, various non-Kʼicheʼ peoples under Kʼicheʼ dominion also submitted to the Spanish. This included the Mam inhabitants of the area now within the modern department of San Marcos. Quetzaltenango and San Marcos were placed under the command of Juan de León y Cardona, who began the reduction of indigenous populations and the foundation of Spanish towns. The towns of San Marcos and San Pedro Sacatepéquez were founded soon after the conquest of western Guatemala. In 1533 Pedro de Alvarado ordered de León y Cardona to explore and conquer the area around the Tacaná, Tajumulco, Lacandón and San Antonio volcanoes; in colonial times this area was referred to as the Province of Tecusitlán and Lacandón. De León marched to a Maya city named \"Quezalli\" by his Nahuatl-speaking allies with a force of fifty Spaniards; his Mexican allies also referred to the city by the name Sacatepequez. De León renamed the city as San Pedro Sacatepéquez in honour of his friar, Pedro de Angulo. The Spanish founded a village nearby at Candacuchex in April that year, renaming it as San Marcos.\n\nOn 14 April 1524, soon after the defeat of the Kʼicheʼ, the Spanish were invited into Iximche and were well received by the lords Belehe Qat and Cahi Imox. The Kaqchikel kings provided native soldiers to assist the conquistadors against continuing Kʼicheʼ resistance and to help with the defeat of the neighbouring Tzʼutuhil kingdom. The Spanish only stayed briefly in Iximche before continuing through Atitlán, Escuintla and Cuscatlán. The Spanish returned to the Kaqchikel capital on 23 July 1524 and on 27 July (\"1 Qʼat\" in the Kaqchikel calendar) Pedro de Alvarado declared Iximche as the first capital of Guatemala, Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala (\"St. James of the Knights of Guatemala\"). Iximche was called Guatemala by the Spanish, from the Nahuatl \"Quauhtemallan\" meaning \"forested land\". Since the Spanish conquistadors founded their first capital at Iximche, they took the name of the city used by their Nahuatl-speaking Mexican allies and applied it to the new Spanish city and, by extension, to the kingdom. From this comes the modern name of the country. When Pedro de Alvarado moved his army to Iximche, he left the defeated Kʼicheʼ kingdom under the command of Juan de León y Cardona. Although de León y Cardona was given command of the western reaches of the new colony, he continued to take an active role in the continuing conquest, including the later assault on the Poqomam capital.\n\nThe Kaqchikel appear to have entered into an alliance with the Spanish to defeat their enemies, the Tzʼutujil, whose capital was Tecpan Atitlan. Pedro de Alvarado sent two Kaqchikel messengers to Tecpan Atitlan at the request of the Kaqchikel lords, both of whom were killed by the Tzʼutujil. When news of the killing of the messengers reached the Spanish at Iximche, the conquistadors marched against the Tzʼutujil with their Kaqchikel allies. Pedro de Alvarado left Iximche just 5 days after he had arrived there, with 60 cavalry, 150 Spanish infantry and an unspecified number of Kaqchikel warriors. The Spanish and their allies arrived at the lakeshore after a day's hard march, without encountering any opposition. Seeing the lack of resistance, Alvarado rode ahead with 30 cavalry along the lake shore. Opposite a populated island the Spanish at last encountered hostile Tzʼutujil warriors and charged among them, scattering and pursuing them to a narrow causeway across which the surviving Tzʼutujil fled. The causeway was too narrow for the horses, therefore the conquistadors dismounted and crossed to the island before the inhabitants could break the bridges. The rest of Alvarado's army soon reinforced his party and they successfully stormed the island. The surviving Tzʼutujil fled into the lake and swam to safety on another island. The Spanish could not pursue the survivors further because 300 canoes sent by the Kaqchikels had not yet arrived. This battle took place on 18 April.\n\nThe following day the Spanish entered Tecpan Atitlan but found it deserted. Pedro de Alvarado camped in the centre of the city and sent out scouts to find the enemy. They managed to catch some locals and used them to send messages to the Tzʼutujil lords, ordering them to submit to the king of Spain. The Tzʼutujil leaders responded by surrendering to Pedro de Alvarado and swearing loyalty to Spain, at which point Alvarado considered them pacified and returned to Iximche. Three days after Pedro de Alvarado returned to Iximche, the lords of the Tzʼutujil arrived there to pledge their loyalty and offer tribute to the conquistadors. A short time afterwards a number of lords arrived from the Pacific lowlands to swear allegiance to the king of Spain, although Alvarado did not name them in his letters; they confirmed Kaqchikel reports that further out on the Pacific plain was the kingdom called Izcuintepeque in Nahuatl, or Panatacat in Kaqchikel, whose inhabitants were warlike and hostile towards their neighbours.\n\nPedro de Alvarado rapidly began to demand gold in tribute from the Kaqchikels, souring the friendship between the two peoples. He demanded that their kings deliver 1000 gold leaves, each worth 15 pesos.\n\nA Kaqchikel priest foretold that the Kaqchikel gods would destroy the Spanish, causing the Kaqchikel people to abandon their city and flee to the forests and hills on 28 August 1524 (\"7 Ahmak\" in the Kaqchikel calendar). Ten days later the Spanish declared war on the Kaqchikel. Two years later, on 9 February 1526, a group of sixteen Spanish deserters burnt the palace of the \"Ahpo Xahil\", sacked the temples and kidnapped a priest, acts that the Kaqchikel blamed on Pedro de Alvarado. Conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo recounted how in 1526 he returned to Iximche and spent the night in the \"old city of Guatemala\" together with Luis Marín and other members of Hernán Cortés's expedition to Honduras. He reported that the houses of the city were still in excellent condition; his account was the last description of the city while it was still inhabitable.\nThe Spanish founded a new town at nearby Tecpán Guatemala; \"Tecpán\" is Nahuatl for \"palace\", thus the name of the new town translated as \"the palace among the trees\". The Spanish abandoned Tecpán in 1527, because of the continuous Kaqchikel attacks, and moved to the Almolonga Valley to the east, refounding their capital on the site of today's San Miguel Escobar district of Ciudad Vieja, near Antigua Guatemala. The Nahua and Oaxacan allies of the Spanish settled in what is now central Ciudad Vieja, then known as Almolonga (not to be confused with Almolonga near Quetzaltenango); Zapotec and Mixtec allies also settled San Gaspar Vivar about northeast of Almolonga, which they founded in 1530.\n\nThe Kaqchikel kept up resistance against the Spanish for a number of years, but on 9 May 1530, exhausted by the warfare that had seen the deaths of their best warriors and the enforced abandonment of their crops, the two kings of the most important clans returned from the wilds. A day later they were joined by many nobles and their families and many more people; they then surrendered at the new Spanish capital at Ciudad Vieja. The former inhabitants of Iximche were dispersed; some were moved to Tecpán, the rest to Sololá and other towns around Lake Atitlán.\n\nAlthough a state of hostilities existed between the Mam and the Kʼicheʼ of Qʼumarkaj after the rebellion of the Kaqchikel against their former Kʼicheʼ allies prior to European contact, when the conquistadors arrived there was a shift in the political landscape. Pedro de Alvarado described how the Mam king Kaybʼil Bʼalam was received with great honour in Qʼumarkaj while he was there. The expedition against Zaculeu was apparently initiated after Kʼicheʼ bitterness at their failure to contain the Spanish at Qʼumarkaj, with the plan to trap the conquistadors in the city having been suggested to them by the Mam king, Kaybʼil Bʼalam; the resulting execution of the Kʼicheʼ kings was viewed as unjust. The Kʼicheʼ suggestion of marching on the Mam was quickly taken up by the Spanish.\n\nAt the time of the conquest, the main Mam population was situated in Xinabahul (also spelled \"Chinabjul\"), now the city of Huehuetenango, but Zaculeu's fortifications led to its use as a refuge during the conquest. The refuge was attacked by Gonzalo de Alvarado y Contreras, brother of conquistador Pedro de Alvarado, in 1525, with 40 Spanish cavalry and 80 Spanish infantry, and some 2,000 Mexican and Kʼicheʼ allies. Gonzalo de Alvarado left the Spanish camp at Tecpán Guatemala in July 1525 and marched to the town of Totonicapán, which he used as a supply base. From Totonicapán the expedition headed north to Momostenango, although it was delayed by heavy rains. Momostenango quickly fell to the Spanish after a four-hour battle. The following day Gonzalo de Alvarado marched on Huehuetenango and was confronted by a Mam army of 5,000 warriors from nearby Malacatán (modern Malacatancito). The Mam army advanced across the plain in battle formation and was met by a Spanish cavalry charge that threw them into disarray, with the infantry mopping up those Mam that survived the cavalry. Gonzalo de Alvarado slew the Mam leader Canil Acab with his lance, at which point the Mam army's resistance was broken, and the surviving warriors fled to the hills. Alvarado entered Malacatán unopposed to find it occupied only by the sick and the elderly. Messengers from the community's leaders arrived from the hills and offered their unconditional surrender, which was accepted by Alvarado. The Spanish army rested for a few days, then continued onwards to Huehuetenango only to find it deserted. Kaybʼil Bʼalam had received news of the Spanish advance and had withdrawn to his fortress at Zaculeu. Alvarado sent a message to Zaculeu proposing terms for the peaceful surrender of the Mam king, who chose not to answer.\n\nZaculeu was defended by Kaybʼil Bʼalam commanding some 6,000 warriors gathered from Huehuetenango, Zaculeu, Cuilco and Ixtahuacán. The fortress was surrounded on three sides by deep ravines and defended by a formidable system of walls and ditches. Gonzalo de Alvarado, although outnumbered two to one, decided to launch an assault on the weaker northern entrance. Mam warriors initially held the northern approaches against the Spanish infantry but fell back before repeated cavalry charges. The Mam defence was reinforced by an estimated 2,000 warriors from within Zaculeu but was unable to push the Spanish back. Kaybʼil Bʼalam, seeing that outright victory on an open battlefield was impossible, withdrew his army back within the safety of the walls. As Alvarado dug in and laid siege to the fortress, an army of approximately 8,000 Mam warriors descended on Zaculeu from the Cuchumatanes mountains to the north, drawn from those towns allied with the city. Alvarado left Antonio de Salazar to supervise the siege and marched north to confront the Mam army. The Mam army was disorganised, and although it was a match for the Spanish and allied foot soldiers, it was vulnerable to the repeated charges of the experienced Spanish cavalry. The relief army was broken and annihilated, allowing Alvarado to return to reinforce the siege. After several months the Mam were reduced to starvation. Kaybʼil Bʼalam finally surrendered the city to the Spanish in the middle of October 1525. When the Spanish entered the city they found 1,800 dead Indians, and the survivors eating the corpses of the dead. After the fall of Zaculeu, a Spanish garrison was established at Huehuetenango under the command of Gonzalo de Solís; Gonzalo de Alvarado returned to Tecpán Guatemala to report his victory to his brother.\n\nIn 1525 Pedro de Alvarado sent a small company to conquer Mixco Viejo (Chinautla Viejo), the capital of the Poqomam. At the Spanish approach, the inhabitants remained enclosed in the fortified city. The Spanish attempted an approach from the west through a narrow pass but were forced back with heavy losses. Alvarado himself launched the second assault with 200 Tlaxcalan allies but was also beaten back. The Poqomam then received reinforcements, possibly from Chinautla, and the two armies clashed on open ground outside of the city. The battle was chaotic and lasted for most of the day but was finally decided by the Spanish cavalry, forcing the Poqomam reinforcements to withdraw. The leaders of the reinforcements surrendered to the Spanish three days after their retreat and revealed that the city had a secret entrance in the form of a cave leading up from a nearby river, allowing the inhabitants to come and go.\n\nArmed with the knowledge gained from their prisoners, Alvarado sent 40 men to cover the exit from the cave and launched another assault along the ravine from the west, in single file owing to its narrowness, with crossbowmen alternating with soldiers bearing muskets, each with a companion sheltering him from arrows and stones with a shield. This tactic allowed the Spanish to break through the pass and storm the entrance of the city. The Poqomam warriors fell back in disorder in a chaotic retreat through the city, and were hunted down by the victorious conquistadors and their allies. Those who managed to retreat down the neighbouring valley were ambushed by Spanish cavalry who had been posted to block the exit from the cave, the survivors were captured and brought back to the city. The siege had lasted more than a month and because of the defensive strength of the city, Alvarado ordered it to be burned and moved the inhabitants to the new colonial village of Mixco.\n\nThere are no direct sources describing the conquest of the Chajoma by the Spanish but it appears to have been a drawn-out campaign rather than a rapid victory. The only description of the conquest of the Chajoma is a secondary account appearing in the work of Francisco Antonio de Fuentes y Guzmán in the 17th century, long after the event. After the conquest, the inhabitants of the eastern part of the kingdom were relocated by the conquerors to San Pedro Sacatepéquez, including some of the inhabitants of the archaeological site now known as Mixco Viejo (Jilotepeque Viejo). The rest of the population of Mixco Viejo, together with the inhabitants of the western part of the kingdom, were moved to San Martín Jilotepeque. The Chajoma rebelled against the Spanish in 1526, fighting a battle at Ukubʼil, an unidentified site somewhere near the modern towns of San Juan Sacatepéquez and San Pedro Sacatepéquez.\n\nIn the colonial period, most of the surviving Chajoma were forcibly settled in the towns of San Juan Sacatepéquez, San Pedro Sacatepéquez and San Martín Jilotepeque as a result of the Spanish policy of \"congregaciones\"; the people were moved to whichever of the three towns was closest to their pre-conquest land holdings. Some Iximche Kaqchikels seem also to have been relocated to the same towns. After their relocation some of the Chajoma drifted back to their pre-conquest centres, creating informal settlements and provoking hostilities with the Poqomam of Mixco and Chinautla along the former border between the pre-Columbian kingdoms. Some of these settlements eventually received official recognition, such as San Raimundo near Sacul.\n\nThe Spanish colonial \"corregimiento\" of San Cristóbal Acasaguastlán was established in 1551 with its seat in the town of that name, now in the eastern portion of the modern department of El Progreso. Acasaguastlán was one of few pre-conquest centres of population in the middle Motagua River drainage, due to the arid climate. It covered a broad area that included Cubulco, Rabinal, and Salamá (all in Baja Verapaz), San Agustín de la Real Corona (modern San Agustín Acasaguastlán) and La Magdalena in El Progreso, and Chimalapa, Gualán, Usumatlán and Zacapa, all in the department of Zacapa. Chimalapa, Gualán and Usumatlán were all satellite settlements of Acasaguastlán. San Cristóbal Acasaguastlán and the surrounding area were reduced into colonial settlements by friars of the Dominican Order; at the time of the conquest the area was inhabited by Poqomchiʼ Maya and by the Nahuatl-speaking Pipil. In the 1520s, immediately after conquest, the inhabitants paid taxes to the Spanish Crown in the form of cacao, textiles, gold, silver and slaves. Within a few decades taxes were instead paid in beans, cotton and maize. Acasaguastlán was first given in \"encomienda\" to conquistador Diego Salvatierra in 1526.\n\nChiquimula de la Sierra (\"Chiquimula in the Highlands\"), occupying the area of the modern department of Chiquimula to the east of the Poqomam and Chajoma, was inhabited by Chʼortiʼ Maya at the time of the conquest. The first Spanish reconnaissance of this region took place in 1524 by an expedition that included Hernando de Chávez, Juan Durán, Bartolomé Becerra and Cristóbal Salvatierra, amongst others. In 1526 three Spanish captains, Juan Pérez Dardón, Sancho de Barahona and Bartolomé Becerra, invaded Chiquimula on the orders of Pedro de Alvarado. The indigenous population soon rebelled against excessive Spanish demands, but the rebellion was quickly put down in April 1530. However, the region was not considered fully conquered until a campaign by Jorge de Bocanegra in 1531–1532 that also took in parts of Jalapa. The afflictions of Old World diseases, war and overwork in the mines and \"encomiendas\" took a heavy toll on the inhabitants of eastern Guatemala, to the extent that indigenous population levels never recovered to their pre-conquest levels.\n\nIn the ten years after the fall of Zaculeu various Spanish expeditions crossed into the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes and engaged in the gradual and complex conquest of the Chuj and Qʼanjobʼal. The Spanish were attracted to the region in the hope of extracting gold, silver and other riches from the mountains but their remoteness, the difficult terrain and relatively low population made their conquest and exploitation extremely difficult. The population of the Cuchumatanes is estimated to have been 260,000 before European contact. By the time the Spanish physically arrived in the region this had collapsed to 150,000 because of the effects of the Old World diseases that had run ahead of them.\n\nAfter the western portion of the Cuchumatanes fell to the Spanish, the Ixil and Uspantek Maya were sufficiently isolated to evade immediate Spanish attention. The Uspantek and the Ixil were allies and in 1529, four years after the conquest of Huehuetenango, Uspantek warriors were harassing Spanish forces and Uspantán was trying to foment rebellion among the Kʼicheʼ. Uspantek activity became sufficiently troublesome that the Spanish decided that military action was necessary. Gaspar Arias, magistrate of Guatemala, penetrated the eastern Cuchumatanes with sixty Spanish infantry and three hundred allied indigenous warriors. By early September he had imposed temporary Spanish authority over the Ixil towns of Chajul and Nebaj. The Spanish army then marched east toward Uspantán itself; Arias then received notice that the acting governor of Guatemala, Francisco de Orduña, had deposed him as magistrate. Arias handed command over to the inexperienced Pedro de Olmos and returned to confront de Orduña. Although his officers advised against it, Olmos launched a disastrous full-scale frontal assault on the city. As soon as the Spanish began their assault they were ambushed from the rear by more than two thousand Uspantek warriors. The Spanish forces were routed with heavy losses; many of their indigenous allies were slain, and many more were captured alive by the Uspantek warriors only to be sacrificed on the altar of their deity Exbalamquen. The survivors who managed to evade capture fought their way back to the Spanish garrison at Qʼumarkaj.\n\nA year later Francisco de Castellanos set out from Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala (by now relocated to Ciudad Vieja) on another expedition against the Ixil and Uspantek, leading eight corporals, thirty-two cavalry, forty Spanish infantry and several hundred allied indigenous warriors. The expedition rested at Chichicastenango and recruited further forces before marching seven leagues northwards to Sacapulas and climbed the steep southern slopes of the Cuchumatanes. On the upper slopes they clashed with a force of between four and five thousand Ixil warriors from Nebaj and nearby settlements. A lengthy battle followed during which the Spanish cavalry managed to outflank the Ixil army and forced them to retreat to their mountaintop fortress at Nebaj. The Spanish force besieged the city, and their indigenous allies managed to scale the walls, penetrate the stronghold and set it on fire. Many defending Ixil warriors withdrew to fight the fire, which allowed the Spanish to storm the entrance and break the defences. The victorious Spanish rounded up the surviving defenders and the next day Castellanos ordered them all to be branded as slaves as punishment for their resistance. The inhabitants of Chajul immediately capitulated to the Spanish as soon as news of the battle reached them. The Spanish continued east towards Uspantán to find it defended by ten thousand warriors, including forces from Cotzal, Cunén, Sacapulas and Verapaz. The Spaniards were barely able to organise a defence before the defending army attacked. Although heavily outnumbered, the deployment of Spanish cavalry and the firearms of the Spanish infantry eventually decided the battle. The Spanish overran Uspantán and again branded all surviving warriors as slaves. The surrounding towns also surrendered, and December 1530 marked the end of the military stage of the conquest of the Cuchumatanes.\n\nIn 1529 the Chuj city of San Mateo Ixtatán (then known by the name of \"Ystapalapán\") was given in \"encomienda\" to the conquistador Gonzalo de Ovalle, a companion of Pedro de Alvarado, together with Santa Eulalia and Jacaltenango. In 1549, the first reduction (\"reducción\" in Spanish) of San Mateo Ixtatán took place, overseen by Dominican missionaries, in the same year the Qʼanjobʼal \"reducción\" settlement of Santa Eulalia was founded. Further Qʼanjobʼal \"reducciones\" were in place at San Pedro Soloma, San Juan Ixcoy and San Miguel Acatán by 1560. Qʼanjobʼal resistance was largely passive, based on withdrawal to the inaccessible mountains and forests from the Spanish \"reducciones\". In 1586 the Mercedarian Order built the first church in Santa Eulalia. The Chuj of San Mateo Ixtatán remained rebellious and resisted Spanish control for longer than their highland neighbours, resistance that was possible owing to their alliance with the lowland Lakandon Chʼol to the north. The continued resistance was so determined that the Chuj remained pacified only while the immediate effects of the Spanish expeditions lasted.\n\nIn the late 17th century, the Spanish missionary Fray Alonso de León reported that about eighty families in San Mateo Ixtatán did not pay tribute to the Spanish Crown or attend the Roman Catholic mass. He described the inhabitants as quarrelsome and complained that they had built a pagan shrine in the hills among the ruins of pre-Columbian temples, where they burnt incense and offerings and sacrificed turkeys. He reported that every March they built bonfires around wooden crosses about two leagues from the town and set them on fire. Fray de León informed the colonial authorities that the practices of the natives were such that they were Christian in name only. Eventually, Fray de León was chased out of San Mateo Ixtatán by the locals.\nIn 1684, a council led by Enrique Enríquez de Guzmán, the governor of Guatemala, decided on the reduction of San Mateo Ixtatán and nearby Santa Eulalia, both within the colonial administrative district of the Corregimiento of Huehuetenango.\n\nOn 29 January 1686, Captain Melchor Rodríguez Mazariegos, acting under orders from the governor, left Huehuetenango for San Mateo Ixtatán, where he recruited indigenous warriors from the nearby villages, 61 from San Mateo itself. It was believed by the Spanish colonial authorities that the inhabitants of San Mateo Ixtatán were friendly towards the still unconquered and fiercely hostile inhabitants of the Lacandon region, which included parts of what is now the Mexican state of Chiapas and the western part of the Petén Basin. To prevent news of the Spanish advance reaching the inhabitants of the Lacandon area, the governor ordered the capture of three of San Mateo's community leaders, named as Cristóbal Domingo, Alonso Delgado and Gaspar Jorge, and had them sent under guard to be imprisoned in Huehuetenango. The governor himself arrived in San Mateo Ixtatán on 3 February, where Captain Rodríguez Mazariegos was already awaiting him. The governor ordered the captain to remain in the village and use it as a base of operations for penetrating the Lacandon region. The Spanish missionaries Fray de Rivas and Fray Pedro de la Concepción also remained in the town. Governor Enriquez de Guzmán subsequently left San Mateo Ixtatán for Comitán in Chiapas, to enter the Lacandon region via Ocosingo.\n\nIn 1695, a three-way invasion of the Lacandon was launched simultaneously from San Mateo Ixtatán, Cobán and Ocosingo. Captain Rodriguez Mazariegos, accompanied by Fray de Rivas and 6 other missionaries together with 50 Spanish soldiers, left Huehuetenango for San Mateo Ixtatán. Following the same route used in 1686, they managed on the way to recruit 200 indigenous Maya warriors from Santa Eulalia, San Juan Solomá and San Mateo itself. On 28 February 1695, all three groups left their respective bases of operations to conquer the Lacandon. The San Mateo group headed northeast into the Lacandon Jungle.\n\nBefore the arrival of the Spanish, the western portion of the Pacific plain was dominated by the Kʼicheʼ and Kaqchikel states, while the eastern portion was occupied by the Pipil and the Xinca. The Pipil inhabited the area of the modern department of Escuintla and a part of Jutiapa; the main Xinca territory lay to the east of the main Pipil population in what is now Santa Rosa department; there were also Xinca in Jutiapa.\nIn the half century preceding the arrival of the Spanish, the Kaqchikel were frequently at war with the Pipil of Izcuintepeque (modern Escuintla). By March 1524 the Kʼiche had been defeated, followed by a Spanish alliance with the Kaqchikel in April of the same year. On 8 May 1524, soon after his arrival in Iximche and immediately following his subsequent conquest of the Tzʼutujil around Lake Atitlán, Pedro de Alvarado continued southwards to the Pacific coastal plain with an army numbering approximately 6000, where he defeated the Pipil of Panacal or Panacaltepeque (called Panatacat in the \"Annals of the Kaqchikels\") near Izcuintepeque on 9 May. Alvarado described the terrain approaching the town as very difficult, covered with dense vegetation and swampland that made the use of cavalry impossible; instead he sent men with crossbows ahead. The Pipil withdrew their scouts because of the heavy rain, believing that the Spanish and their allies would not be able to reach the town that day. However, Pedro de Alvarado pressed ahead and when the Spanish entered the town the defenders were completely unprepared, with the Pipil warriors indoors sheltering from the torrential rain. In the battle that ensued, the Spanish and their indigenous allies suffered minor losses but the Pipil were able to flee into the forest, sheltered from Spanish pursuit by the weather and the vegetation. Pedro de Alvarado ordered the town to be burnt and sent messengers to the Pipil lords demanding their surrender, otherwise he would lay waste to their lands. According to Alvarado's letter to Cortés, the Pipil came back to the town and submitted to him, accepting the king of Spain as their overlord. The Spanish force camped in the captured town for eight days. A few years later, in 1529, Pedro de Alvarado was accused of using excessive brutality in his conquest of Izcuintepeque, amongst other atrocities.\nIn Guazacapán, now a municipality in Santa Rosa, Pedro de Alvardo described his encounter with people who were neither Maya nor Pipil, speaking a different language altogether; these people were probably Xinca. At this point Alvarado's force consisted of 250 Spanish infantry accompanied by 6,000 indigenous allies, mostly Kaqchikel and Cholutec. Alvarado and his army defeated and occupied the most important Xinca city, named as Atiquipaque, usually considered to be in the Taxisco area. The defending warriors were described by Alvarado as engaging in fierce hand-to-hand combat using spears, stakes and poisoned arrows. The battle took place on 26 May 1524 and resulted in a significant reduction of the Xinca population. Alvarado's army continued eastwards from Atiquipaque, seizing several more Xinca cities. Tacuilula feigned a peaceful reception only to unsuccessfully raise arms against the conquistadors within an hour of their arrival. Taxisco and Nancintla fell soon afterwards. Because Alvarado and his allies could not understand the Xinca language, Alvarado took extra precautions on the march eastward by strengthening his vanguard and rearguard with ten cavalry apiece. In spite of these precautions the baggage train was ambushed by a Xinca army soon after leaving Taxisco. Many indigenous allies were killed and most of the baggage was lost, including all the crossbows and ironwork for the horses. This was a serious setback and Alvarado camped his army in Nancintla for eight days, during which time he sent two expeditions against the attacking army. Jorge de Alvarado led the first attempt with thirty to forty cavalry and although they routed the enemy they were unable to retrieve any of the lost baggage, much of which had been destroyed by the Xinca for use as trophies. Pedro de Portocarrero led the second attempt with a large infantry detachment but was unable to engage with the enemy due to the difficult mountain terrain, so returned to Nancintla. Alvarado sent out Xinca messengers to make contact with the enemy but they failed to return. Messengers from the city of Pazaco, in the modern department of Jutiapa, offered peace to the conquistadors but when Alvarado arrived there the next day the inhabitants were preparing for war. Alvarado's troops encountered a sizeable quantity of gathered warriors and quickly routed them through the city's streets. From Pazaco Alvarado crossed the Río Paz and entered what is now El Salvador.\n\nAfter the conquest of the Pacific plain, the inhabitants paid tribute to the Spanish in the form of valuable products such as cacao, cotton, salt and vanilla, with an emphasis on cacao.\n\nThe Contact Period in Guatemala's northern Petén lowlands lasted from 1525 through to 1700. Superior Spanish weaponry and the use of cavalry, although decisive in the northern Yucatán, were ill-suited to warfare in the dense forests of lowland Guatemala.\n\nIn 1525, after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, Hernán Cortés led an expedition to Honduras over land, cutting across the Itza kingdom in what is now the northern Petén Department of Guatemala. His aim was to subdue the rebellious Cristóbal de Olid, whom he had sent to conquer Honduras, but Cristóbal de Olid had set himself up independently on his arrival in that territory. Cortés had 140 Spanish soldiers, 93 of them mounted, 3,000 Mexican warriors, 150 horses, a herd of pigs, artillery, munitions and other supplies. He also had with him 600 Chontal Maya carriers from Acalan. They arrived at the north shore of Lake Petén Itzá on 13 March 1525.\n\nCortés accepted an invitation from Aj Kan Ekʼ, the king of the Itza, to visit Nojpetén (also known as Tayasal), and crossed to the Maya city with 20 Spanish soldiers while the rest of his army continued around the lake to meet him on the south shore. On his departure from Nojpetén, Cortés left behind a cross and a lame horse. The Spanish did not officially contact the Itza again until the arrival of Franciscan priests in 1618, when Cortés' cross was said to still be standing at Nojpetén. From the lake, Cortés continued south along the western slopes of the Maya Mountains, a particularly arduous journey that took 12 days to cover , during which he lost more than two-thirds of his horses. When he came to a river swollen with the constant torrential rains that had been falling during the expedition, Cortés turned upstream to the Gracias a Dios rapids, which took two days to cross and cost him more horses.\n\nOn 15 April 1525 the expedition arrived at the Maya village of Tenciz. With local guides they headed into the hills north of Lake Izabal, where their guides abandoned them to their fate. The expedition became lost in the hills and came close to starvation before they captured a Maya boy who led them out to safety. Cortés found a village on the shore of Lake Izabal, perhaps Xocolo. He crossed the Dulce River to the settlement of Nito, somewhere on the Amatique Bay, with about a dozen companions, and waited there for the rest of his army to regroup over the course of the next week. By this time the remnants of the expedition had been reduced to a few hundred; Cortés succeeded in contacting the Spaniards he was searching for, only to find that Cristóbal de Olid's own officers had already put down his rebellion. Cortés constructed an improvised brigantine and, accompanied by canoes, he ascended the Dulce River to Lake Izabal, with about 40 Spaniards, and a number of Indians. He at first believed he had reached the Pacific, but soon realised his error. At the western end of the lake, he marched inland and engaged in battle with the Maya natives at the city of Chacujal, on the Polochic River. He seized plentiful supplies of food from the city and sent supplies back to Nito in the brigantine. He had rafts built to ferry supplies back downriver, and returned to Nito with them, while most of his men marched back overland. Cortés then returned to Mexico by sea.\n\nBy 1537 the area immediately north of the new colony of Guatemala was being referred to as the \"Tierra de Guerra\" (\"Land of War\"). Paradoxically, it was simultaneously known as \"Verapaz\" (\"True Peace\"). The Land of War described an area that was undergoing conquest; it was a region of dense forest that was difficult for the Spanish to penetrate militarily. Whenever the Spanish located a centre of population in this region, the inhabitants were moved and concentrated in a new colonial settlement near the edge of the jungle where the Spanish could more easily control them. This strategy resulted in the gradual depopulation of the forest, simultaneously converting it into a wilderness refuge for those fleeing Spanish domination, both for individual refugees and for entire communities, especially those \"congregaciones\" that were remote from centres of colonial authority. The Land of War, from the 16th century through to the start of the 18th century, included a vast area from Sacapulas in the west to Nito on the Caribbean coast and extended northwards from Rabinal and Salamá, and was an intermediate area between the highlands and the northern lowlands. It includes the modern departments of Baja Verapaz and Alta Verapaz, Izabal and Petén, as well as the eastern part of El Quiché and a part of the Mexican state of Chiapas. The western portion of this area was the territory of the Qʼeqchiʼ Maya.\n\nPedro Orozco, the leader of the Sacatepéquez Mam of San Marcos department, lent willing help to the Dominicans in their campaign to peacefully subject the inhabitants of Verapaz. On 1 May 1543 Carlos V rewarded the Sacatepéquez Mam by issuing a royal order promising never to give them in \"encomienda\".\n\nDominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas arrived in the colony of Guatemala in 1537 and immediately campaigned to replace violent military conquest with peaceful missionary work. Las Casas offered to achieve the conquest of the Land of War through the preaching of the Catholic faith. It was the Dominicans who promoted the use of the name Verapaz instead of the Land of War. Because of the fact that the land had not been possible to conquer by military means, the governor of Guatemala, Alonso de Maldonado, agreed to sign a contract promising he would not establish any new \"encomiendas\" in the area should Las Casas' strategy succeed. Las Casas and a group of Dominican friars established themselves in Rabinal, Sacapulas and Cobán, and managed to convert several native chiefs using a strategy of teaching Christian songs to merchant Indian Christians who then ventured into the area.\nIn this way they congregated a group of Christian Indians in the location of what is now the town of Rabinal. Las Casas became instrumental in the introduction of the New Laws in 1542, established by the Spanish Crown to control the excesses of the conquistadors and colonists against the indigenous inhabitants of the Americas. As a result, the Dominicans met substantial resistance from the Spanish colonists, who saw their own interests threatened by the New Laws; this distracted the Dominicans from their efforts to establish peaceful control over the Land of War.\n\nIn 1543 the new colonial \"reducción\" of Santo Domingo de Cobán was founded at Chi Monʼa to house the relocated Qʼeqchiʼ from Chichen, Xucaneb and Al Run Tax Aj. Santo Tomás Apóstol was founded nearby the same year at Chi Nim Xol, it was used in 1560 as a \"reducción\" to resettle Chʼol communities from Topiltepeque and Lacandon in the Usumacinta Valley. In 1555 the Acala Chʼol and their Lacandon allies killed the Spanish friar Domingo de Vico. De Vico had established a small church among the inhabitants of San Marcos, a region that lay between the territories of the Lacandon and the Manche Chʼol (an area unrelated to the department of San Marcos). De Vico had offended the local ruler by repeatedly scolding him for taking several wives. The indigenous leader shot the friar through the throat with an arrow; the angry natives then seized him, cut open his chest and extracted his heart. His corpse was then decapitated; the natives carried off his head, which was never recovered by the Spanish. In response a punitive expedition was launched, headed by Juan Matalbatz, a Qʼeqchiʼ leader from Chamelco; the independent Indians captured by the Qʼeqchiʼ expedition were taken back to Cobán and resettled in Santo Tomás Apóstol.\n\nGil González Dávila set out from the Caribbean island of Hispaniola early in 1524, with the intention of exploring the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua. His course took him to the north coast of Honduras. After founding Puerto de Caballos, Gil Gónzalez sailed west along the coast to the Amatique Bay, and founded a Spanish settlement somewhere near the Dulce River, within modern-day Guatemala, which he named San Gil de Buena Vista. He launched a campaign of conquest in the mountainous region dividing Honduras from Guatemala. González left some of his men under the command of Francisco Riquelme at San Gil de Buena Vista, and sailed back east along the coast to Honduras. The colonists at San Gil did not prosper, and soon set out in search of a more hospitable location. They resettled in the important indigenous town of Nito, near the mouth of the Dulce River. Although they were in a desperate state, and near-starving, they were still there when Cortés passed through en route to Honduras, and were absorbed into his expedition.\n\nThe Dominicans established themselves in Xocolo on the shore of Lake Izabal in the mid-16th century. Xocolo became infamous among the Dominican missionaries for the practice of witchcraft by its inhabitants. By 1574 it was the most important staging post for European expeditions into the interior, and it remained important in that role until as late as 1630, although it was abandoned in 1631.\n\nIn 1598 Alfonso Criado de Castilla became governor of the Captaincy General of Guatemala. Owing to the poor state of Puerto de Caballos on the Honduran coast and its exposure to repeated pirate raids he sent a pilot to scout Lake Izabal. As a result of the survey, and after royal permission was granted, Criado de Castilla ordered the construction of a new port, named Santo Tomás de Castilla, at a favourable spot on the Amatique Bay not far from the lake. Work then began on building a highway from the port to the new capital of the colony, modern Antigua Guatemala, following the Motagua Valley into the highlands. Indigenous guides scouting the route from the highlands would not proceed further downriver than three leagues below Quiriguá, because the area was inhabited by the hostile Toquegua.\nThe leaders of Xocolo and Amatique, backed by the threat of Spanish action, persuaded a community of 190 Toquegua to settle on the Amatique coast in April 1604. The new settlement immediately suffered a drop in population, but although the Amatique Toquegua were reported extinct before 1613 in some sources, Mercedarian friars were still attending to them in 1625. In 1628 the towns of the Manche Chʼol were placed under the administration of the governor of Verapaz, with Francisco Morán as their ecclesiastical head. Morán favoured a more robust approach to the conversion of the Manche and moved Spanish soldiers into the region to protect against raids from the Itza to the north. The new Spanish garrison in an area that had not previously seen a heavy Spanish military presence provoked the Manche to revolt, which was followed by abandonment of the indigenous settlements. By 1699 the neighbouring Toquegua no longer existed as a separate people because of a combination of high mortality and intermarriage with the Amatique Indians. At around this time the Spanish decided on the reduction of the independent (or \"wild\" from the Spanish point of view) Mopan Maya living to the north of Lake Izabal. The north shore of the lake, although fertile, was by then largely depopulated, therefore the Spanish planned to bring the Mopan out of the forests to the north into an area where they could be more easily controlled.\n\nDuring the campaign to conquer the Itza of Petén, the Spanish sent expeditions to harass and relocate the Mopan north of Lake Izabal and the Chʼol Maya of the Amatique forests to the east. They were resettled in the Colonial \"reducción\" of San Antonio de las Bodegas on the south shore of the lake and in San Pedro de Amatique. By the latter half of the 18th century, the indigenous population of these towns had disappeared; the local inhabitants now consisted entirely of Spaniards, mulattos and others of mixed race, all associated with the Castillo de San Felipe de Lara fort guarding the entrance to Lake Izabal. The main cause of the drastic depopulation of Lake Izabal and the Motagua Delta was the constant slave raids by the Miskito Sambu of the Caribbean coast that effectively ended the Maya population of the region; the captured Maya were sold into slavery in the British colony of Jamaica.\n\nFrom 1527 onwards the Spanish were increasingly active in the Yucatán Peninsula, establishing a number of colonies and towns by 1544, including Campeche and Valladolid in what is now Mexico. The Spanish impact on the northern Maya, encompassing invasion, epidemic diseases and the export of up to 50,000 Maya slaves, caused many Maya to flee southwards to join the Itza around Lake Petén Itzá, within the modern borders of Guatemala. The Spanish were aware that the Itza Maya had become the centre of anti-Spanish resistance and engaged in a policy of encircling their kingdom and cutting their trade routes over the course of almost two hundred years. The Itza resisted this steady encroachment by recruiting their neighbours as allies against the slow Spanish advance.\n\nDominican missionaries were active in Verapaz and the southern Petén from the late 16th century through the 17th century, attempting non-violent conversion with limited success. In the 17th century the Franciscans came to the conclusion that the pacification and Christian conversion of the Maya would not be possible as long as the Itza held out at Lake Petén Itzá. The constant flow of escapees fleeing the Spanish-held territories to find refuge with the Itza was a drain on the \"encomiendas\". Fray Bartolomé de Fuensalida visited Nojpetén in 1618 and 1619. The Franciscan missionaries attempted to use their own reinterpretation of the \"kʼatun\" prophecies when they visited Nojpetén at this time, to convince the current Aj Kan Ekʼ and his Maya priesthood that the time for conversion had come. But the Itza priesthood interpreted the prophecies differently, and the missionaries were fortunate to escape with their lives. In 1695 the colonial authorities decided to connect the province of Guatemala with Yucatán, and Guatemalan soldiers conquered a number of Chʼol communities, the most important being Sakbʼajlan on the Lacantún River in eastern Chiapas, now in Mexico, which was renamed as Nuestra Señora de Dolores, or Dolores del Lakandon. The Franciscan friar Andrés de Avendaño oversaw a second attempt to overcome the Itza in 1695, convincing the Itza king that the Kʼatun 8 Ajaw, a twenty-year Maya calendrical cycle beginning in 1696 or 1697, was the right time for the Itza to finally embrace Christianity and to accept the king of Spain as overlord. However the Itza had local Maya enemies who resisted this conversion, and in 1696 Avendaño was fortunate to escape with his life. The Itza's continued resistance had become a major embarrassment for the Spanish colonial authorities, and soldiers were despatched from Campeche to take Nojpetén once and for all.\n\nMartín de Ursúa y Arizmendi arrived on the western shore of lake Petén Itzá with his soldiers in February 1697, and once there built a \"galeota\", a large and heavily armed oar-powered attack boat. The Itza capital fell in a bloody waterborne assault on 13 March 1697. The Spanish bombardment caused heavy loss of life on the island; many Itza Maya who fled to swim across the lake were killed in the water. After the battle the surviving defenders melted away into the forests, leaving the Spanish to occupy an abandoned Maya town. The Itza and Kowoj kings (Ajaw Kan Ekʼ and Aj Kowoj) were soon captured, together with other Maya nobles and their families. With Nojpetén safely in the hands of the Spanish, Ursúa returned to Campeche; he left a small garrison on the island, isolated amongst the hostile Itza and Kowoj who still dominated the mainland. Nojpetén was renamed by the Spanish as \"Nuestra Señora de los Remedios y San Pablo, Laguna del Itza\" (\"Our Lady of Remedy and Saint Paul, Lake of the Itza\"). The garrison was reinforced in 1699 by a military expedition from Guatemala, accompanied by mixed-race \"ladino\" civilians who came to found their own town around the military camp. The settlers brought disease with them, which killed many soldiers and colonists and swept through the indigenous population. The Guatemalans stayed just three months before returning to Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala, taking the captive Itza king with them, together with his son and two of his cousins. The cousins died on the long journey to the colonial capital; Ajaw Kan Ekʼ and his son spent the rest of their lives under house arrest in the capital.\n\nIn the late 17th century the small population of Chʼol Maya in southern Petén and Belize was forcibly removed to Alta Verapaz, where the people were absorbed into the Qʼeqchiʼ population. The Chʼol of the Lacandon Jungle were resettled in Huehuetenango in the early 18th century. Catholic priests from Yucatán founded several mission towns around Lake Petén Itzá in 1702–1703. Surviving Itza and Kowoj were resettled in the new colonial towns by a mixture of persuasion and force. Kowoj and Itza leaders in these mission towns rebelled against their Spanish overlords in 1704, but although well-planned, the rebellion was quickly crushed. Its leaders were executed and most of the mission towns were abandoned. By 1708 only about 6,000 Maya remained in central Petén, compared to ten times that number in 1697. Although disease was responsible for the majority of deaths, Spanish expeditions and internecine warfare between indigenous groups also played their part.\n\nThe initial shock of the Spanish conquest was followed by decades of heavy exploitation of the indigenous peoples, allies and foes alike. Over the following two hundred years colonial rule gradually imposed Spanish cultural standards on the subjugated peoples. The Spanish \"reducciones\" created new nucleated settlements laid out in a grid pattern in the Spanish style, with a central plaza, a church and the town hall housing the civil government, known as the \"ayuntamiento\". This style of settlement can still be seen in the villages and towns of the area. The civil government was either run directly by the Spanish and their descendants (the \"criollos\") or was tightly controlled by them. The introduction of Catholicism was the main vehicle for cultural change, and resulted in religious syncretism. Old World cultural elements came to be thoroughly adopted by Maya groups, an example being the marimba, a musical instrument of African origin. The greatest change was the sweeping aside of the pre-Columbian economic order and its replacement by European technology and livestock; this included the introduction of iron and steel tools to replace Neolithic tools, and of cattle, pigs and chickens that largely replaced the consumption of game. New crops were also introduced; however, sugarcane and coffee led to plantations that economically exploited native labour. Sixty per cent of the modern population of Guatemala is estimated to be Maya, concentrated in the central and western highlands. The eastern portion of the country was the object of intense Spanish migration and hispanicization. Guatemalan society is divided into a class system largely based on race, with Maya peasants and artisans at the bottom, the mixed-race ladino salaried workers and bureaucrats forming the middle and lower class and above them the creole elite of pure European ancestry. Some indigenous elites such as the Xajil did manage to maintain a level of status into the colonial period; a prominent Kaqchikel noble family, they chronicled the history of their region.\n"}
{"id": "1916609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916609", "title": "Śākaṭāyana", "text": "Śākaṭāyana\n\nŚākaṭāyana was an early \"etymologist\" or \"nairukta\". He is the oldest grammarian known by name, even though his work is only known indirectly, via references by Yaska and Panini.\n\nŚākaṭāyana apparently claimed that all nouns are ultimately derived from verbal roots. This process is reflected in the Sanskrit grammar as the system of \"krit-pratyaya\"s or verbal affixes.\n\nBimal Krishna Matilal in his \"The word and the world\" refers to the debate of \"nirkuta\" vs. \"vyakarana\" as an \ninteresting philosophical discussion between the \"nairuktas\" or etymologists and the \"pāṇinīyas\" or grammarians. According to the etymologists, all nouns (substantives) are derived from some verbal root or the other. Yāska in his \"Nirukta\" refers to this view (in fact defends it) and ascribes it to an earlier scholar Śākaṭāyana. This would require that all words are to be analysable into atomic elements, 'roots' or 'bases' and 'affixes' or 'inflections' — better known in Sanskrit as \"dhātu\" and \"pratyaya\" [...] Yāska reported the view of Gārgya who opposed Śākaṭāyana (both preceded Pāṇini who mentions them by name) and held that not all substantival words or nouns (\"nāma\") were to be derived from roots, for certain nominal stems were 'atomic'.\n\nSakatayana also proposed that functional morphemes such as prepositions do not have any meaning by themselves, but contribute to meaning only when attached to nouns or other content words:\n\nHis work might have been called the \"\", in which he also describes the process of determining gender in animate and inanimate creation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916615", "title": "JCO (company)", "text": "JCO (company)\n\nJCO was a Japanese nuclear fuel cycle company established in October 1979 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd. as Japan Nuclear Fuel Conversion Co. . As of 2000, stock capitalization was US$1 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916620", "title": "Telmisartan", "text": "Telmisartan\n\nTelmisartan, sold under the trade name Micardis among others, is a medication used to treat high blood pressure, heart failure, and diabetic kidney disease. It is a reasonable initial treatment for high blood pressure. It is taken by mouth. Versions are available as the combination telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide and telmisartan/amlodipine.\nCommon side effects include upper respiratory tract infections, diarrhea, and back pain. Serious side effects may include kidney problems, low blood pressure, and angioedema. Use in pregnancy may harm the baby and use when breastfeeding is not recommended. It is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist and works by blocking the effects of angiotensin II.\nTelmisartan was patented in 1991 and came into medical use in 1999. It is available as a generic medication. A month supply in the United Kingdom costs the NHS less than £2 as of 2019. In the United States the wholesale cost of this amount is about US$10. In 2017, it was the 249th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than one million prescriptions.\n\nTelmisartan is used to treat high blood pressure, heart failure, and diabetic kidney disease. It is a reasonable initial treatment for high blood pressure.\n\nTelmisartan is contraindicated during pregnancy. Like other drugs affecting the renin–angiotensin system (RAS), telmisartan can cause birth defects, stillbirths, and neonatal deaths. It is not known whether the drug passes into the breast milk. Also it is contraindicated in bilateral renal artery stenosis in which it can cause kidney failure.\n\nSide effects are similar to other angiotensin II receptor antagonists and include tachycardia and bradycardia (fast or slow heartbeat), hypotension (low blood pressure) and edema (swelling of arms, legs, lips, tongue, or throat, the latter leading to breathing problems). Allergic reactions may also occur.\n\nDue to its mechanism of action, telmisartan increases blood potassium levels. Combination with potassium preparations or potassium-sparing diuretics could cause hyperkalaemia (excessive potassium levels). Combination with NSAIDs, especially in patients with impaired kidney function, has a risk of causing (usually reversible) kidney failure.\n\nTelmisartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker that shows high affinity for the angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AT), with a binding affinity 3000 times greater for AT than AT.\n\nIn addition to blocking the RAS, telmisartan acts as a selective modulator of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ), a central regulator of insulin and glucose metabolism. It is believed that telmisartan's dual mode of action may provide protective benefits against the vascular and renal damage caused by diabetes and cardiovascular disease (CVD).\n\nTelmisartan's activity at the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPAR-δ) receptor has prompted speculation around its potential as a sport doping agent as an alternative to GW 501516. Telmisartan activates PPAR-δ receptors in several tissues.\n\nAlso, Telmisartan has a PPARγ agonist activity.\n\nThe substance is quickly but to varying degrees absorbed from the gut. The average bioavailability is about 50% (42–100%). Food intake has no clinically relevant influence on the kinetics of telmisartan. Plasma protein binding is over 99.5%, mainly to albumin and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein. It has the longest half-life of any ARB (24 hours) and the largest volume of distribution among ARBs (500 liters). Less than 3% of telmisartan is inactivated by glucuronidation in the liver, and over 97% is eliminated in unchanged form via bile and faeces.\n\nTelmisartan is available as a generic medication. A month supply in the United Kingdom costs the NHS less than £2 as of 2019. In the United States the National Average Drug Acquisition Cost of this amount is about US$10 as of 2019.\n"}
{"id": "1916628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916628", "title": "King City GO Station", "text": "King City GO Station\n\nKing City GO Station is a train and bus station in the GO Transit network located in King City, Ontario in Canada. It also serves the nearby communities of Nobleton, Oak Ridges, the northern parts of Maple (in Vaughan), and other communities in King Township. It is a stop on the Barrie line train service.\n\nThe original King Station was built in 1852 at a location less than a kilometre north of the current station, adjacent to the community's inn. It was moved to the grounds of the King Township Museum in 1989, and was designated a heritage site in 1990.\n\nThe GO Station opened on 7 September 1982, with service extending south to Toronto and north to Bradford.\n\nIn 2002, with infrastructure funding from the provincial government, GO Transit expanded the station's parking lot capacity from 111 spaces to 255.\n\nDuring 2004, the platform was extended in order to accommodate longer trainsets, thus removing any boarding restrictions that GO Transit had with this station prior to opening the extended rail platform. In addition, the extension also eliminated the problem of GO trains blocking a railroad crossing on Station Road while passengers boarded and disembarked.\n\nConstruction of a covered station building was completed in the summer of 2005, and a second parking lot on the west side of the tracks was opened in February 2006.\n\nAs of January 2018, train service operates approximately every 15-30 minutes in the morning peak period, every 30 minutes in the afternoon peak period and every hour at other times. Outside of peak periods, most trains terminate at Aurora with connecting buses for stations further north.\n\nOn weekends and holidays, service operates approximately every hour to and from Union Station, with most trains terminating at Aurora station. Three daily trains in each direction cover the full route from Barrie to Toronto, while the remainder have bus connections at Aurora station for stations further north.\n\nConnecting York Region Transit and GO buses serve the station from a bus stop on Keele Street at Station Road.\n\nDaily train boarding at the station has increased from 199 in 2005 to a peak of 680 in 2008. In 2012, there were 655 daily boardings, or approximately 170,000 riders annually. GO Transit bus route 63, which travels between the King City GO Station and Union Station Bus Terminal via Maple and Rutherford GO stations, served a daily average of 450 riders at this station in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916632", "title": "Peaking power plant", "text": "Peaking power plant\n\nPeaking power plants, also known as peaker plants, and occasionally just \"peakers\", are power plants that generally run only when there is a high demand, known as peak demand, for electricity. Because they supply power only occasionally, the power supplied commands a much higher price per kilowatt hour than base load power. Peak load power plants are dispatched in combination with base load power plants, which supply a dependable and consistent amount of electricity, to meet the minimum demand.\n\nAlthough historically peaking power plants were frequently used in conjunction with coal baseload plants, peaking plants are now used less commonly. Combined cycle gas turbine plants have two or more cycles, the first of which is very similar to a peaking plant, with the second running on the waste heat of the first. That type of plant is capable of rapidly starting up, albeit at reduced efficiency, and then over some hours transitioning to a more efficient baseload generation mode. Combined cycle plants have similar capital cost per watt to peaking plants, but run for much longer periods and hence give cheaper electricity.\n\nPeak hours usually occur in the morning or late afternoon/evening depending on location. In temperate climates, peak hours often occur when household appliances are heavily used in the evening after work hours. In hot climates, the peak is usually late afternoon when air conditioning load is high, during this time many workplaces are still open and consuming power. In cold climates, the peak is in the morning when space heating and industry are both starting up.\n\nA peaker plant may operate many hours a day, or it may operate only a few hours per year, depending on the condition of the region's electrical grid. Because of the cost of building an efficient power plant, if a peaker plant is only going to be run for a short or highly variable time, it does not make economic sense to make it as efficient as a base load power plant. In addition, the equipment and fuels used in base load plants are often unsuitable for use in peaker plants because the fluctuating conditions would severely strain the equipment. For these reasons, nuclear, waste-to-energy, coal and biomass are rarely, if ever, operated as peaker plants.\nFor countries that are trending away from coal-fired base load plants and towards intermittent energy sources such as wind and solar, there is a corresponding increase in the need for peaking or load following power plants and the use of grid interties, such as the WECC Intertie Paths.\n\nPeaker plants are generally gas turbines or gas engines that burn natural gas. A few burn biogas or petroleum-derived liquids, such as diesel oil and jet fuel, but they are generally more expensive than natural gas, so their use is limited to areas not supplied with natural gas. However, many peaker plants are able to use petroleum as a backup fuel, as storing oil in tanks is easy. The thermodynamic efficiency of simple-cycle gas turbine power plants ranges from 20 to 42%, with between 30 and 42% being average for a new plant.\n\nFor greater efficiency, a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) is added at the exhaust. This is known as a combined cycle plant. Cogeneration uses waste exhaust heat for process, district heating or other heating uses. Both of these options are used only in plants that are intended to be operated for longer periods than usual. Natural gas and diesel generators with reciprocating engines are sometimes used for grid support using smaller plants.\n\nAnother option for increased efficiency and power output in gas turbines is installing a turbine inlet air cooling system, that cools down the inlet air temperature increasing mass flow ratio. This option, in combination with a thermal energy storage tank, can increase the turbine power output in on-peak periods up to 30%.\nHydroelectric dams are intentionally variable; they can generate less during off-peak and quickly respond to peak demands, consequently hydroelectricity may function as load following or a peaking plant and with sufficient water, a base-load plant. Natural gas turbines or pumped storage are often used where there is not enough hydroelectricity to respond to daily and weekly variations in generation and consumption. It is not unusual for a dam to be built with more capacity than can be sustained by the water supply, allowing for a higher peak output. Upgrading equipment at existing dams can be one of the least expensive ways of increasing peak generation. The ability to vary the amount of electricity generated is often limited by the requirement that minimum or maximum flows downstream are satisfied.\n\nPumped-storage hydroelectricity is the largest-capacity form of grid energy storage available, used for averaging off-peak and peak electrical demands. The site stores energy using the gravitational potential of water stored in a reservoir. Low-cost off-peak electric power from base load or intermittent sources is used to pump water at a low elevation to storage in a high elevation reservoir. During periods of high electrical demand, the stored water is released through turbines to produce electric power. Start up times are only a few minutes, and some can start in a few tens of seconds.\n\nBatteries are used in some cases where conditions favor it to smooth flow (avoiding a costly power line upgrade) as well as supplying peak power and other grid services such as operating reserve, sometimes in hybrid configuration with turbines or diesel engines. Battery power is by far the fastest responding of all powerplants, and can respond to grid conditions at millisecond timescales, giving slower responding equipment a chance to react to outages.\n\nPumped-storage and batteries are net consumers, as they have no inherent energy source, and the conversion between electricity and storage and back incurs some losses.\n\nSolar thermal peaker plants were proposed in 2017, under a US Department of Energy Technology 2 Market award to Hank Price of SolarDynamics, whose paper \"Dispatchable Solar Power Plant\" proposed utilizing the thermal energy storage inherent in a solar thermal energy power plant, that enables this heat-based form of solar to generate like a gas peaker, to supply power on demand day or night, and in return be controlled by the utility and paid in capacity payments to be available when needed, like a traditional peaker plant. A solar thermal power plant makes electricity in a steam cycle power plant like a traditional power plant but the heat for steam is supplied by solar energy heating a material such as molten salts and storing the heat until needed to make steam for power generation.\n\nThe opposites of peaking plants are base load power plants. Nuclear and coal burning plants operate continuously, stopping only for maintenance or unexpected outages. Intermediate load following power plants such as hydroelectric operate between these extremes, curtailing their output on nights and weekends when demand is low. Base load and intermediate plants are used preferentially to meet electrical demand because the lower efficiencies of peaker plants make them more expensive to operate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916641", "title": "François-Léon Sicard", "text": "François-Léon Sicard\n\nFrançois-Léon Sicard (April 21, 1862 – July 8, 1934) was a French sculptor in the late 19th and early 20th century. His credits include work on the adornments of the Louvre, and numerous sculptures around the world.\n\nSicard was born in Tours, studied with Louis-Ernest Barrias, and is known for his lithography and his fiercely patriotic original works of art. Despite the prolific populace of noted works throughout Europe, surprisingly little is known about Sicard himself. His work is very similar to that of Gustave Crauk (1827–1920) and Antoine-Augustin Préault (1809–1879), and he may have worked in collaboration with Crauk on some of his sculptures during the early 20th century.\n\nSome of his noted sculptures include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1916648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916648", "title": "Primer (paint)", "text": "Primer (paint)\n\nA primer () or undercoat is a preparatory coating put on materials before painting. Priming ensures better adhesion of paint to the surface, increases paint durability, and provides additional protection for the material being painted.\n\nA primer consists of 20–30% synthetic resin, 60–80% solvent and 2–5% additive agent. Some primer contains polyethylene (plastic), for better durability.\n\nPrimer is a paint product that allows finishing paint to adhere much better than if it were used alone. It is designed to adhere to surfaces and to form a binding layer that is better prepared to receive the paint. Compared to paint, a primer is not intended to be used as the outermost durable finish and can instead be engineered to have improved filling and binding properties with the material underneath. Sometimes this is achieved by chemistry, as in the case of aluminium primer, but more often this is achieved through controlling the primer's physical properties such as its porosity, tackiness, and hygroscopy. \nIn practice, primer is often used when painting porous materials, including concrete and wood. Using a primer is considered mandatory if the material is not water resistant and will be exposed to the elements. Priming gypsum board (drywall) is also standard practice with new construction because it seals the wall from moisture and can prevent the growth of mold. Primers can also be used on dirty surfaces which cannot be cleaned or before painting light colors over a dark finish.\n\nSome primers can be tinted to match more closely with the color of the finishing paint. If the finishing paint is a deep color, tinting the primer can reduce the number of layers of finishing paint that are necessary for good uniformity across the painted surface.\nPrimers are also used to hide joints and seams to give a finished look.\n\nSome primers require that the topcoat be applied within a certain amount of time after the primer dries to ensure optimal adhesion. This varies from 24 hours to up to two weeks after the primer has dried. Painting after the suggested time-frame may cause performance issues depending on the specific situation. It is common to apply the finishing coat of paint before the primer fully cures in order to improve adhesion between the primer and the topcoat. The level of exposure, such as indoors versus outdoors, may affect how important applying the topcoat within the time-frame will be.\n\nWood is very porous and will absorb the solvent in paint and cause it to dry more quickly. This is undesirable because most paints undergo chemical reactions during the process of curing (for example, latex- and alkyd-based paints polymerise when curing) which is dependent on the water or solvent evaporating slowly. A layer of primer will prevent the underlying wood from prematurely absorbing the solvents in the finishing paint.\n\nPrimer can reduce the number of paint coats needed for good coverage and even color. \n\nA thin layer of paint may still be permeable to water. Water can permeate into the wood and cause warping, mildew, or dry rot. Primer improves the waterproofing of the finish. \n\nPrimers are often comparable in price to finish paints and the price is influenced by the quality of the ingredients. Primers for some specialty applications can be expensive.\n\nPrimers are not used as part of a wood stain treatment because they obscure the wood grain. Primer differs from wood sealers in that sealers typically don't obscure the wood grain completely.\n\nSome metals, such as untreated aluminium, require a primer; others may not. A primer designed for metal is still highly recommended if a part is to be exposed to moisture. Once water seeps through to the bare metal, oxidation will begin (plain steel will simply rust). Metal primers might contain additional materials to protect against corrosion, such as sacrificial zinc. \nMetal hydroxides/oxides do not provide a solid surface for the paint to adhere to, and paint will come off in large flakes. Using a primer will provide extra insurance against such a scenario. An additional reason for using a primer on metal could be the poor condition of the surface. A steel part can be rusty, for example. Although the metal can be thoroughly cleaned by blasting, when this is not possible then special kinds of primer can be used that chemically convert rust to the solid metal salts. Even though such a surface is still lacking in comparison to new metal, it is much better than weak, porous rust.\n\nPainting and gluing aluminium is especially important in the aircraft industry, which uses toxic zinc chromate primers and chromating to add the necessary adhesion properties.\n\nUsing a primer on surfaces made of plastic is only necessary when making a drastic change of colour (going from dark brown to white, for example), because most household plastics are not very porous and are not easily damaged by moisture; or when a long-lasting coat of paint is desired. A primer will reduce the number of layers of paint necessary to completely cover the previous colour, and will help the paint make a thorough bond with the surface being painted. Because most paints and primers designed to be used for painting plastics are not water based, an important point for choosing a primer for plastic is making sure the primer's propellant or solvent will not dissolve or warp the plastic part itself (e.g. most common household spray paint will damage polystyrene foam) For this reason, most manufacturers recommend that both the primer and paint should be tested on a less visible location of the part being painted.\n\nAlternative surface treatments, such as plasma activation, can replace primers in the cases when the latter are used to improve adhesive bonding between the substrate and the paint or the lacquer. Quality of the adhesive bonding, such as varnishing and painting, depends strongly on the ability of the adhesive to efficiently cover (wet) the substrate area. This happens when the surface energy of the substrate is greater than the surface energy of the adhesive. However, high strength adhesives – lacquers and paints – have high surface energy. Thus, their application is problematic for low surface energy materials such as polymers or oxidized metals. \n\nTo solve this problem, plasma activation is used as a preparation step before adhesive bonding. It cleans the polymer surface from the organic contaminants, removes a weak boundary layer, strengthens the surface by cross-linking polymer molecules and chemically bonds to the substrate a strong layer with high surface energy and chemical affinity to the adhesive. Moreover, plasma processing can also reduce or remove hard oxides from metal surfaces, enabling painting and gluing of metals such as copper and aluminium. Importantly, plasma activation can be performed at the atmospheric pressure in air with fast processing speeds. It does not use wet chemistry, which positively affects its costs, safety and environmental impact.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916650", "title": "Elise Neal", "text": "Elise Neal\n\nElise Demetria Neal (born March 14, 1966) is an American actress. Her big break came with three 1997 films, appearing in \"Rosewood\", \"Money Talks\" and \"Scream 2\".\n\nFrom 1998 to 2002, Neal starred as Yvonne Hughley in the ABC/UPN sitcom \"The Hughleys\". Other film appearances include \"Mission to Mars\" (2000), \"Hustle & Flow\" (2005) and \"Logan\" (2017). On television, Neal also starred as Tia Jewel in the first two seasons of the UPN/The CW sitcom \"All of Us\" from 2003 to 2005. She is a three-time NAACP Image Award nominee.\n\nNeal was born on March 14, 1966 in Memphis, Tennessee, the daughter of a nurse and a construction worker. She attended Lakeview Elementary. She was a ballet dancer and a cheerleader. She broke her left wrist in a high toss cheerleading stunt; after the bones healed, her wrist never straightened back out completely. She graduated from Overton High School for the Creative and Performing Arts. From 1984–1988, she attended the University of the Arts in Philadelphia. Elise left college after two years and moved to New York City where she landed roles in musical theater and found herself traveling the world with various touring companies. Her experience in musical theater allowed her to easily transition into commercials, eventually bringing her to Los Angeles.\n\nNeal was an accomplished dancer and appeared in several hip-hop and R&B music videos in the early 1990s. One of her earliest jobs was as a background dancer in Chubb Rock's music video for \"Just the Two of Us.\" Other music videos Neal has performed in include Black Sheep's 1992 video for Strobelite Honey, Father MC's 1991 video for \"Lisa Baby\", Aretha Franklin's 1998 video for \"A Rose Is Still a Rose\", Trick Daddy's 2001 video \"I'm a Thug\", and Vanessa Williams's video \"Work to Do\". Neal was also featured in the November 2007 edition of \"King Magazine\".\n\nOnce in Los Angeles, Neal landed the role of Janice Sinclair on the soap opera \"Loving\". She then played fighter pilot J.J. Fredericks on the series \"seaQuest 2032\". Her breakout role was being cast as Yvonne Hughley, the wife of D.L. Hughley in the five seasons of the television sitcom \"The Hughleys\". While on \"The Hughleys,\" Neal was cast in the high-profile role of Hallie in \"Scream 2\". Her character was originally written to be one of the killers of the movie, but due to a script leak her role was changed. Neal also appeared as a backing dancer in the music video for Dannii Minogue's 1993 single “This Is It”.\n\nHer film debut was a starring role in \"Rosewood\". Other film credits include: \"Paid in Full\", \"Money Talks\", \"Mission to Mars\" and \"Restaurant\". Her role in the 2007 film \"4 Life\" also marked her first soundtrack single, \"I'm Down Baby\". She also appeared in the series \"K-Ville\".\n\nNeal was nominated for a NAACP award for Best Supporting Actress in a Motion Picture for the film \"Hustle & Flow\", and received two NAACP nominations for Best Actress in a Comedy for \"The Hughleys\".\n\nExpanding her role as producer, Neal is creating and developing several multimedia projects: a reality show based on her R & B group, \"Assorted Flavors\", a fitness and lifestyle brand, and multiple feature projects through her development deal with Mandalay Bay Entertainment.\n\nNeal played Kathryn Munson in the 2017 superhero film \"Logan\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916653", "title": "Didsbury, Alberta", "text": "Didsbury, Alberta\n\nDidsbury is a town in central Alberta, Canada, at the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. It is located next to Alberta Highway 2A, near the Queen Elizabeth II Highway. Didsbury is within the Calgary-Edmonton corridor. Didsbury is approximately the half-way point between the cities of Calgary and Red Deer.\n\nDidsbury is surrounded by Mountain View County, which has its municipal office located to the north of the town. The nearest neighbouring communities are the towns of Olds to the north and Carstairs to the south.\n\nThe town is named after the township of Didsbury, now a suburban area of Manchester, England. The first settlers were Dutch Mennonites who left their homes in Pennsylvania and emigrated as United Empire Loyalists to Waterloo County, Ontario. They were granted the area around Didsbury in 1894 by the government of Sir John A. Macdonald.\n\nOriginal settlement in the area was sparse, and this in part explains the initial slow development of the town-site as a service centre. The first concern of the Mennonite settlers was to build a church; and the primary task of the settlers was to create farmsteads. Settlement prior to the post-1900 land rush was limited to the small group who came west in 1894.\n\n1897 saw the arrival of the Canadian Pacific Railway, which pushed forward the town's development. The CPR constructed a station in the town in 1904. Didsbury was incorporated as a village in 1905 and as a town on September 6, 1906.\n\nFires in 1914 and 1924 destroyed the early \"boomtown\" commercial streetscape and led to the passing by Town Council of a bylaw which required masonry construction for all new downtown commercial buildings. Many of these brick buildings stand today.\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, the Town of Didsbury recorded a population of 5,268 living in 2,031 of its 2,119 total private dwellings, a change from its 2011 population of 4,957. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, the Town of Didsbury had a population of 4,957 living in 1,923 of its 1,987 total dwellings, a 15.1% change from its 2006 adjusted population of 4,305. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\nThe population of the Town of Didsbury according to its 2008 municipal census is 4,599.\n\nThe town's recreational facilities include six parks, a golf course, aquatic centre, and a hockey rink. There is also a hospital and a Royal Canadian Mounted Police detachment serving the town and the surrounding area.\n\nDidsbury has three schools that are under the jurisdiction of the Chinook's Edge School Division.\n\nThe Olds-Didsbury Airport, which is used primarily for small aircraft and general aviation, is located north of Didsbury along Highway 2A.\n\nThe town is served by the \"Didsbury Review\", which is part of the Great West Newspapers chain.\n\nDidsbury is home to the Mountainview Colts of the Heritage Junior B Hockey League.\n\nOrganizations present in Didsbury include the Royal Canadian Army Cadets and the 1st Didsbury Scouts, Didsbury Jazzercise, as well as the Elks and Lions clubs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916663", "title": "Street Fighter (TV series)", "text": "Street Fighter (TV series)\n\nStreet Fighter (known fully as Street Fighter: The Animated Series) is an animated television series produced by InVision Entertainment based on the video game franchise of the same name by Capcom. The series aired as part of the USA Network's Cartoon Express and Action Extreme Team lineups. It lasted two 13-episode seasons which aired from 1995 to 1997, for a total of 26 episodes. \n\nThe show is closely based on the \"Street Fighter II\" series, but also borrows plot elements and characters from the live-action \"Street Fighter\" film and the first two \"Street Fighter Alpha\" games, as well as other Capcom games such as \"Saturday Night Slam Masters\", \"Magic Sword\", and \"Final Fight\".\n\nColonel William F. Guile is the leader of the \"Street Fighters\", an international undercover peacekeeping force composed of martial artists from around the world. They often face off against the ruthless General Bison and his Shadaloo criminal empire. They follow a code of honor involving the keywords \"discipline\", \"justice\" and \"commitment\".\n\nAll 17 fighters from \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\" appeared in some form throughout the entire series, with Guile, Chun-Li, Blanka, Ryu, Ken and Cammy serving as the show's primary characters, while M. Bison, Sagat, Vega and Zangief serve as primary antagonists. Since the arcade version of \"\" was only recently released when the show began airing, most of the new fighters that were introduced in that game only make a cameo in one episode (\"The Medium is the Message\") during the first season. \n\nThe second season (which aired after the release of \"Street Fighter Alpha 2\") would feature the \"Alpha\" roster more prominently, with characters such as Rose (in \"The Flame and the Rose\") and Sakura (in \"Second to None\") being the focus of certain episodes. \n\n\n\nEpisode 22 (“The Warrior King\") is part 1 of a 4-episode crossover with several other shows that aired as part of the US \"Action Extreme Team\" programming block:\n\n\nADV Films has released the complete series on Region 1 DVD. The first set, \"Street Fighter: Code of Honor\", was released on April 13, 2003 and contains all the Season 1 episodes; while the second set, \"Street Fighter: Soul Powers\", released on May 13, 2003, and contains all the Season 2 episodes. Both of the DVD sets are now out of print. Discotek Media re-released the TV series in 2015. A 25th Anniversary Collector's Set of games, which includes a Blu-ray Disc of the entire TV series, was released in North America on September 18, 2012. In 2019, all of the Season 1 and Season 2 episodes were available on the japanese VideoMarket website in Japan.\n\nDespite lasting two seasons—the same amount as \"\" and \"Darkstalkers\" combined—\"Street Fighter\" has suffered from predominantly negative reception. 411Mania included the series in a 2010 feature titled \"The 8 Worst \"Street Fighter\" Franchise Failures\" on the grounds that \"the animation was sub-\"Captain Planet\", the story was contrived, and the dialogue was wretched.\" Nick Chester of Destructoid called the show \"an abomination\" and \"spectacularly awful.\" 1UP.com labeled the series \"really crappy\" and added, \"[W]hile \"SF\" fans love to quote the \"Street Fighter\" movie ... they are usually less enthusiastic about the Saturday morning cartoon.\" The site also included the show in their list of the \"Top 5 Not-So-Classic Video Game Cartoons\" on the basis of the plot. \"Do you remember when Guile recruited every character in the game into a secret anti-terrorist paramilitary group? I don't either.\" While \"Street Fighter\" was omitted from GamesRadar's 2010 list of \"truly horrendous\" video game cartoons, it was still mentioned as \"a terrible abomination that would have made our list if \"Darkstalkers\" hadn’t knocked it off.\"\n\nDespite its negative reception, the show has become the source of numerous internet memes, most notably a scene in \"The Medium is the Message\" where M. Bison shouts \"\"Yes! Yes!\"\" as he watches Guile get beaten up by one of his mutant soldiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916664", "title": "SGS S.A.", "text": "SGS S.A.\n\nSGS (formerly Société Générale de Surveillance (French for \"General Society of Surveillance\")) is a multinational company headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland which provides inspection, verification, testing and certification services. It has more than 94,000 employees and operates over 2,600 offices and laboratories worldwide. It ranked on Forbes Global 2000 in 2015, 2016 and 2017.\n\nThe core services offered by SGS include the inspection and verification of the quantity, weight and quality of traded goods, the testing of product quality and performance against various health, safety and regulatory standards, and to make sure that products, systems or services meet the requirements of standards set by governments, standardization bodies or by SGS customers.\n\nInternational traders in London, including those from France, Germany and the Netherlands, the Baltic, Hungary, the Mediterranean and the United States, founded the London Corn Trade Association in 1878 in order to standardize shipping documents for exporting nations and to clarify procedures and disputes relating to the quality of imported grain.\n\nIn the same year, SGS was founded in Rouen, France, by Henri Goldstuck, a young Latvian immigrant who, having seen the opportunities at one of the country’s largest ports, began to inspect French grain shipments. With the aid of Captain Maxwell Shafftington, he borrowed money from an Austrian friend to start inspecting the shipments arriving in Rouen as, during transit, losses showed in the volume of grain as a result of shrinkage and theft. The service inspected and verified the quantity and quality of the grain on arrival with the importer.\n\nBusiness grew rapidly; the two entrepreneurs went into business together in December 1878 and, within a year, had opened offices in Le Havre, Dunkirk and Marseilles.\n\nIn 1915, during the First World War, the company moved its headquarters from Paris to Geneva, Switzerland and on July 19, 1919 the company adopted the name Société Générale de Surveillance.\n\nDuring the mid-20th century, SGS started offering inspection, testing and verification services across a variety of sectors, including industrial, minerals and oil, gas and chemicals, among others. In 1981, the company went public and in 1985 joined the Swiss Market Index.\n\nThe company works in the following industries: agriculture and food, chemical, construction, consumer goods and retail, energy, finance, industrial manufacturing, life sciences, logistics, mining, oil and gas, public sector and transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916665", "title": "Imperial Russian Navy", "text": "Imperial Russian Navy\n\nThe Imperial Russian Navy () was the navy of the Russian Empire from 1696 to 1917. It was formally established in 1696 and lasted until being dissolved during the February Revolution of 1917. It developed from a smaller force that had existed prior to Tsar Peter the Great's founding of the modern Russian Navy during the Second Azov campaign. It was expanded in the second half of the 18th century and reached its peak strength by the early part of the 19th century, behind only the British and French fleets in terms of size.\n\nOfficers were drawn from the aristocracy of the Empire, who belonged to the state Russian Orthodox Church. Young aristocrats began to be trained for leadership at a national naval school. From 1818 on, only officers of the Imperial Russian Navy were appointed to the position of Chief Manager of the Russian-American Company, which was based in Russian America (present-day Alaska) for colonization and fur trade development. After the navy was initially staffed by paid foreign sailors, the government began to recruit native-born sailors as conscripts, drafted as were men to serve in the army. Service in the navy was lifelong.\n\nThe Russian Navy then went into a period of decline, due to the Empire's slow technical and economic development in the first half of the 19th century. It had a revival in the latter part of the century during the reign of Emperor Nicholas II, but most of its Pacific Fleet along with the Baltic Fleet which was sent to the Far East and was destroyed in the humiliating Russo-Japanese War of 1904.\n\nThe navy had mixed experiences during the First World War, with the Germans generally gaining the upper hand in the Baltic Sea, while the Russians took control of the Black Sea. The Russian Revolution marked the end of the Imperial Navy; its officers had mostly aligned with the emperor, and the sailors split to fight on either side. The surviving ships were taken over by the Soviet Navy when it was established in 1918 after the Revolution.\n\nUnder Tsar Mikhail I (\"Mikhail Fyodorovich Romanov)\", the first three-masted ship built within Russia was finished in 1636. Danish shipbuilders from Holstein built it in Balakhna according to contemporary European design. The ship was christened \"Frederick\"; during its maiden voyage on the Caspian Sea, the ship sailed into a heavy storm and was lost at sea.\n\nDuring the Russo-Swedish War, 1656-1658, Russian forces seized the Swedish fortresses of Dünaburg and Kokenhusen on the Western Dvina. They renamed the former as \"Borisoglebsk\" and the latter as \"Tsarevich-Dmitriyev\". A \"boyar\" named Afanasy Ordin-Nashchokin founded a shipyard at Tsarevich-Dmitriev fortress and began constructing vessels to sail in the Baltic Sea. In 1661, however, Russia lost this and other captured territories by the Peace of Cardis. Russia agreed to surrender to Sweden all captured territories, and it ordered all vessels constructed at Tsarevich-Dmitriev to be destroyed.\n\n\"Boyar\" Ordin-Nashchokin turned his attention to the Volga River and Caspian Sea. With the Tsar's approval, the \"boyar\" brought Dutch shipbuilding experts to the town of Dedinovo near the confluence of the Oka and Volga rivers. Shipbuilding commenced in the winter of 1667. Within two years, four vessels had been completed: one 22-gun galley, christened \"Орёл\" (\"Oryol\" = \"Eagle\"), and three smaller ships. \"Орёл\" was Russia's first own three-masted, European-designed sailing ship. It was captured in Astrakhan by rebellious Cossacks led by Stepan Razin. The Cossacks ransacked \"Орёл\" and abandoned it, half-submerged, in an estuary of the Volga.\n\nDuring much of the 17th century, independent Russian merchants and Cossacks, using koch boats, sailed across the White Sea, exploring the rivers Lena, Kolyma and Indigirka, and founding settlements in the region of the upper Amur. The most celebrated Russian explorer was Semyon Dezhnev who, in 1648, sailed along the entire northern expanse of present-day Russia by way of the Arctic Ocean. Rounding the Chukotsk Peninsula, Dezhnev passed through the Bering Sea and sailed into the Pacific Ocean.\n\nPeter the Great established the modern Russian Navy. During the Second Azov campaign of 1696 against Turkey, the Russians for the first time used 2 warships, 4 fireships, 23 galleys and 1300 strugs, built on the Voronezh River. After the occupation of the Azov fortress, the Boyar Duma looked into Peter's report of this military campaign. It passed a decree on October 20, 1696 to commence construction of a navy. This date is considered the official founding of the Imperial Russian Navy.\n\nDuring the Great Northern War of 1700–1721, the Russians built the Baltic Fleet. The construction of the oared fleet (galley fleet) took place in 1702–1704 at several shipyards (estuaries of the rivers Syas, Luga and Olonka). In order to defend the conquered coastline and attack enemy's maritime communications in the Baltic Sea, the Russians created a sailing fleet from ships built in Russia and others imported from abroad.\n\nFrom 1703 to 1723, the main naval base of the Baltic Fleet was located in Saint Petersburg and then in Kronstadt. Bases were also created in Reval (Tallinn) and in Vyborg after it was ceded by Sweden after Russo-Swedish War (1741-1743). Vladimirsky Prikaz was the first organization in charge of shipbuilding. Later on, these functions were transferred to the Admiralteyskiy Prikaz (admiralty in St. Petersburg).\n\nIn 1745 the Russian Navy had 130 sailing vessels, including 36 ships of the line, 9 frigates, 3 \"shnyavas\" (\"шнява\" — a light two-mast ship used for reconnaissance and messenger services), 5 bombardier ships, and 77 auxiliary vessels. The oared fleet consisted of 396 vessels, including 253 galleys and semi-galleys (called \"скампавеи\", or scampavei; a light high-speed galley) and 143 brigantines. The ships were being constructed at 24 shipyards, including the ones in Voronezh, Kazan, Pereyaslavl, Arkhangelsk, Olonets, Petersburg and Astrakhan.\n\nThe naval officers came from \"dvoryane\" (noblemen, aristocrats who belonged to the state Russian Orthodox Church). The regular sailors were conscripts, drafted into military service. The service in the navy was lifelong. Children of noblemen were educated for naval service at the School for Mathematical and Navigational Sciences, which had been founded in 1701 in Moscow's Sukharev Tower. Students were often sent abroad for training in foreign fleets. The Navy also hired foreign nationals, with significant naval experience, to serve in the Russian Navy, such as the Norwegian-Dutch Cornelius Cruys, the Greek Ivan Botsis, or the Scotsman Thomas Gordon. In 1718, the Admiralty Board (Адмиралтейств-коллегия) was established as the highest naval authority in Russia.\n\nThe organizational principles of the Russian Navy, educational and training methods for preparing future staff, and methods for conducting military action were all summarized in the Naval Charter (1720), written by Peter I himself. Peter the Great, Feodor Apraksin, Alexey Senyavin, Naum Senyavin, Admiral Mikhail Golitsyn and others are generally credited for the development of the Russian art of naval warfare. The main principles of naval warfare were further developed by Grigory Spiridov, Feodor Ushakov, and Dmitry Senyavin.\n\nBetween 1688 and 1725, a period spanning most of Peter's reign, some 1,260 seagoing vessels were built in Russian shipyards for the Imperial Russian Navy. Fleets were launched successively on the White Sea, the Sea of Azov (with access to the Black Sea), the Baltic Sea, and the Caspian Sea (Russo-Persian War of 1722-1723). In 1700, the majority of sailors in the Imperial Russian Navy were foreigners at the start of the Great Northern War. But by 1721, at the end of the same war, the navy had 7,215 native-born sailors.\n\nIn the second half of the 18th century, the Russian Navy was built up to support the government's foreign policy. The nation conducted the Russo-Turkish wars for supremacy in the Black Sea. For the first time, Russia sent its squadrons from the Baltic Sea to distant theaters of operations (\"see Archipelago expeditions of the Russian Navy\"). Admiral Spiridov's squadron gained supremacy in the Aegean Sea by destroying the Turkish fleet in the Battle of Chesma in 1770. In 1771, the Russian army conquered the coasts of the Kerch Strait and fortresses of Kerch and Yenikale.\n\nAfter having advanced to the Danube, the Russians formed the Danube Military Flotilla for the purpose of guarding the Danube estuary. In 1771 they were guests to the Republic of Ragusa. The Beluga caviar from the Danube was famous, and merchants from the Republic of Ragusa dominated the import-export business in Serbia with the Habsburg Monarchy.\n\nIn 1773 the vessels of the Azov Flotilla (created anew in 1771) sailed into the Black Sea. Russia defeated Turkey in the Russo-Turkish War of 1768–1774, gaining control of the Sea of Azov and a part of the Black Sea coastline between the rivers Bug and Dniester. The Crimea was pronounced independent under Russia's protectorate and was annexed by Russia in 1783. In 1778, the Russians founded the port of Kherson. The first battleship of the Black Sea Fleet was commissioned here in 1783. A year later, a squadron had been developed.\n\nBy the second half of the 18th century, the Russian Navy had the fourth-largest fleet in the world after Great Britain, Spain and France. The Black Sea Fleet possessed five line-of-battle ships and 19 frigates (1787), and the Baltic Fleet had 23 ships of the line and 130 frigates (1788). In the early 19th century, the Russian Navy consisted of the Baltic and Black Sea Fleets, Caspian Flotilla, White Sea Flotilla and Okhotsk Flotilla.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars, the Russian Navy had limited sea-going capability, with the 1802 Committee to Improve the Condition of the Navy concluding that the dire state of the ships of the Baltic Fleet, suffering as they did from extensive rot and a lack of copper plating, was incapable of defending Kronstadt and St Petersburg. The Committee's chairman, Vorontsov, concluded that \"It is impossible for Russia to be considered a major naval power, but there is no predictable need or advantage in this status.\" Consequently, the Committee recommended nothing more than limited measures to rectify the state of the fleets, and the Russians retained limited capability at sea thereafter, relying on their military power to defeat Napoleon. In 1802, the Ministry of Naval Military Forces was established (renamed to Naval Ministry in 1815).\n\nThis attitude changed with the accession of Nicholas I in 1825, who less than a month into his reign declared that \"Russia must become the third naval power after England and France and must be more powerful than any coalition of secondary naval powers.\" As a consequence, the 1825 Committee to Organise the Fleet was formed, which outlined an ambitious shipbuilding project which aimed to create the third largest navy in Europe.\n\nThe growth of the Navy in the years after this greatly bolstered Russian naval capability, expanding both the Baltic and Black Sea Fleets. A Russian squadron under the Dutch Admiral Lodewijk van Heiden fought at the Battle of Navarino in 1827. The Navy was used to great effect during the subsequent Russo-Turkish War (1828-29), utilising the Mediterranean squadron and the Black Sea Fleet to gain command of the Sea from the Ottomans, which contributed to Russian victory and the signing of the Treaty of Adrianople in 1829.\n\nIn 1826 the Russians built their first armed steamboat \"Izhora\" (), equipped with eight cannons. In 1836, they constructed the first paddle steam frigate of the Russian Navy called \"Bogatyr\" (displacement — , power — , armament — 28 cannons).\n\nThe Imperial Russian Navy sent out exploratory expeditions. Between 1803 and 1855, their ships undertook more than 40 circumnavigations and long-distant voyages, most of which were in support of their North Americans colonies in Russian America (Alaska) and Fort Ross in northern California, and their Pacific ports on the eastern seaboard of Siberia. These voyages produced important scientific research materials and discoveries in Pacific, Antarctic and Arctic theatres of operations.\n\nIn 1863, during the American Civil War, the Russian Navy's Atlantic and Pacific fleets wintered in the American ports of New York and San Francisco, respectively. Some historians credit this visit as a major factor in deterring France and the UK from entering the war on the Confederate side. Delahaye states that besides supporting the Union, Russia was also preparing for a war with France and the UK should they intervene in the Polish insurrection of 1863. The Russian Navy was weak and could easily be blockaded in its home ports, but if it was in the US when the war started it could more easily attack British and French commerce.\n\nThe Imperial Russian Navy continued to expand in the later part of the century becoming the third largest fleet in the world after the UK and France. The expansion accelerated under Emperor Nicholas II who had been influenced by the American naval theoretician Alfred Thayer Mahan. Russian industry, although growing in capacity, was not able to meet the demands and some ships were ordered from the UK, France, Germany, USA, and Denmark. French naval architects in particular had a considerable influence on Russian designs.\n\nRussia's slow technical and economic development in the first half of the 19th century caused her to fall behind other European countries in the field of steamboat construction. By the outbreak of the Crimean War in 1853, Russia had the Baltic and Black Sea Fleets, Arkhangelsk Flotilla, Caspian Flotilla and Okhotsk Flotilla (altogether, 40 battleships, 15 frigates, 24 corvettes and brigs, 16 steam frigates etc.).\n\nThe combined number of staff of all the fleets equaled 91,000 people. Despite all this, the reactionary serfdom system had an adverse effect on the development of the Russian Navy. It was especially typical of the Baltic Fleet, which was known for its harsh military drill.\n\nThanks to admirals Mikhail Lazarev, Pavel Nakhimov, Vladimir Kornilov, and Vladimir Istomin, the sailors of the Black Sea Fleet were taught the art of warfare and upholding of military traditions of the Russian Navy, formed in the times of Admiral Ushakov.\n\nThe Battle of Sinop in 1853 the Black Sea Fleet under Nakhimov made a number of tactical innovations. During the Siege of Sevastopol in 1854–1855, the Russian sailors used all means possible to defend their base from land and sea. In accordance with the Treaty of Paris, Russia lost the right to have a military fleet in the Black Sea. In the 1860s, the Russian fleet which had relied upon sails lost its significance and was gradually replaced by steam.\n\nAfter the Crimean War, Russia commenced construction of steam-powered ironclads, monitors, and floating batteries. These vessels had strong artillery and thick armor, but lacked seaworthiness, speed and long-distance abilities. In 1861, they built the first steel-armored gunship \"Opyt\" (Опыт). In 1869, the Russians began the construction of one of the first seafaring ironclads, (Пётр Великий).\n\nOn the night of 8 February 1904, the Japanese naval fleet under Admiral Heihachiro Togo opened the war with a surprise attack by torpedo boat destroyers on the Russian ships at Port Arthur, badly damaging two Russian battleships. The attacks developed into the Battle of Port Arthur the next morning. A series of indecisive naval engagements followed, in which the Japanese were unable to attack the Russian fleet successfully under shore batteries (\"coastal guns\") of the harbor and the Russians declined to leave the harbor for the open seas, especially after the death of Admiral Stepan Osipovich Makarov on 13 April 1904.\n\nAfter the attack on Port Arthur, the Japanese attempted to deny the Russians use of the port. On the night of 13/14 February, the Japanese attempted to block the entrance to Port Arthur by sinking several cement-filled steamers in the deep water channel to the port. But the steamers, driven off course by Russian gunfire were unable to sink them in the designated places, rendering them ineffective. Another attempt to block the harbor entrance on the night of 3/4 May with blockships also failed.\n\nIn March, the energetic Vice Admiral Stepan Makarov (1849–1904) took command of the First Russian Pacific Squadron with the intention of making plans to break out of the Port Arthur blockade. By then, both sides began a policy of tactical offensive mine-laying by laying mines in each other's ports. This was the first time in warfare that mines were used for offensive purposes. In the past, mines were used as purely defensive purposes by keeping harbors safe from invading warships.\n\nThe Japanese mine-laying policy was effective at restricting the Russian movement of its ships outside Port Arthur when on 12 April 1904, two Russian battleships; the flagship, , and ran into a Japanese minefield off Port Arthur with both striking mines. \"Petropavlovsk\" sank within an hour, while \"Pobeda\" had to be towed back to Port Arthur for extensive repairs. Makarov died on \"Petropavlovsk\".\n\nHowever, the Russians soon learned the Japanese tactic of offensive minelaying and decided to play the strategy too. On 15 May, two Japanese battleships — and , were both lured into a recently laid Russian minefield off Port Arthur, both striking at least two mines. \"Hatsuse\" sank within minutes taking 450 sailors with her, while \"Yashima\" sank under tow a few hours later.\n\nThe Russian fleet attempted to break out from Port Arthur and proceed to Vladivostok, but they were intercepted and dispersed at the Battle of the Yellow Sea. The remnant of the Russian fleet remained in Port Arthur, where the ships were slowly sunk by the artillery of the besieging army. Attempts to relieve the city by land also failed, and after the Battle of Liaoyang in late August, the Russians retreated to Mukden (Shenyang). Port Arthur finally fell on 2 January 1905, after a series of brutal, high-casualty assaults.\n\nBy 25 June, the Imperial Russian Navy had purchased (in secrecy) its first naval submarine (known as \"Madam\") from Isaac Rice's Electric Boat Company. This submarine was (originally) built under the direction of Arthur Leopold Busch as the American torpedo boat \"Fulton\". It was a prototype of the (Holland Type 7 Design) known as the \"Adder\"-class/ submarines. By 10 October, this first Russian submarine was (officially) commissioned into service (and shipped to) the eastern coast near Vladivostok Russia and was renamed \"Som\" or (Catfish). This first Russian submarine was not ready in time for the Russo-Japanese War. The reason behind this delay was partly due to a (late) shipment of torpedoes (that was) originally ordered from Germany in early 1905. Russia soon ordered more submarines (of the same basic design) and they were built under contract with the Holland Company by the Neva Shipbuilding Company located in St. Petersburg, Russia.\n\nIn 1903, the German ship building firm Germaniawerft at Kiel completed Germany's first fully functioning engine powered submarine; \"Forelle\". The submarine was toured (inspected) by Kaiser Wilhelm II, and Prince Heinrich of Prussia was given a brief cruise in the vessel. In April 1904, the Imperial Russian Navy purchased \"Forelle\", and ordered two more submarines of the . These vessels, as well as \"Forelle\" were transported along the Trans-Siberian Railway en route to the war zone.\n\nGermaniawerft, under the supervision of Spanish naval architect Raymondo Lorenzo d'Euevilley-Montjustin, continued his work on the \"Karp\"-class submarines, improving and modifying one into Germany's first U-boat, , which was commissioned into the Imperial German Navy on 14 December 1906. \"U-1\" was retired in 1919, and is currently on display at the Deutsches Museum in Munich.\n\nDue to the ongoing blockade of Port Arthur in 1904, the Imperial Russian Navy dispatched their remaining submarines to Vladivostok, and by the end of 1904 the last of seven subs had reached their new base there. Using the seven boats as a foundation, the Imperial Russian Navy created the world's first operational submarine fleet at Vladivostok on 1 January 1905. On 14 February 1905 the new \"submarine fleet\" sent out its first combat patrol consisting of the vessels \"Som\" and \"Delfin\". With patrols varying from 24 hours to a few days, the sub fleets first enemy contact occurred on 29 April 1905 when Imperial Japanese Navy torpedo boats fired upon \"Som\", withdrawing after failing to score a hit. On 1 July the Russian submarine \"Keta\" made contact with two Japanese torpedo boats in the Tartar Strait. \"Keta\" could not submerge quick enough to obtain a firing position and both adversaries broke contact.\n\nThe Russians had already been preparing to reinforce their fleet the previous year by sending elements of the Baltic Sea fleet (\"The Second Pacific Squadron\") under Admiral Zinovy Rozhestvensky around the Cape of Good Hope to Asia, a voyage of over . On 21 October 1904, while passing by the United Kingdom (an ally of Japan but neutral in this war), they nearly provoked a war in the Dogger Bank incident by firing on British fishing boats that they mistook for Japanese torpedo boats.\n\nThe duration of the Baltic Fleet's journey meant that Admiral Togo was well aware of the Baltic Fleet's progress, and he made plans to meet it before it could reach port at Vladivostok. He intercepted them in the Tsushima Strait between Korea and Japan, in the early morning of 27 May 1905. Although both battleship fleets were on nearly equal footing in regards to the latest in battleship technology, with the British warship designs representing the Imperial Japanese Navy, and predominately the French designs being favored by the Russian fleets; it was the combat experience that Togo had accrued in the 1904 naval battles of Port Arthur and the Yellow Sea, that gave him the edge over the un-tested Admiral Rozhestvensky during the Battle of Tsushima on 27 May. By the end of the day on 27 May, nearly all of Rozhestvensky's battleships were sunk, including his flagship, ; and on the following day, Admiral Nebogatov, who had relieved Rozhestvensky due to his wounds, surrendered the remainder of the fleet to Admiral Togo.\n\nAt the end of the Russo-Japanese War in 1905, Russia fell from being the third greatest naval power to sixth place. The focus of Russian naval activities shifted back from the Far East to the Baltic. The task of the Baltic Fleet was to defend the Baltic Sea and Saint Petersburg from the German Empire.\n\nEmperor Nicholas II created a Naval General Staff in 1906. At first, attention was directed to creation of mine-laying and a submarine fleet. An ambitious expansion program was put before the Duma in 1907-1908 but was voted down. The Bosnian Crisis of 1909 forced a strategic reconsideration, and new s, cruisers, and destroyers were ordered for the Baltic Fleet. A worsening of relations with Turkey meant that new ships including the s were also ordered for the Black Sea Fleet. The total Russian naval expenditure from 1906-1913 was $519 million, in fifth place behind Britain, Germany,the United States and France.\n\nThe re-armament program included a significant element of foreign participation with several ships (including the cruiser \"Rurik\") and machinery ordered from foreign firms. After the outbreak of World War I, ships and equipment being built in Germany were confiscated. Equipment from Britain was slow in reaching Russia or was diverted to the Western Allies' own war effort.\n\nIn the Baltic Sea, Germany and Russia were the main combatants, with a number of British submarines sailing through the Kattegat to assist the Russians, including commanded by Max Horton. With the German fleet larger and more modern (many High Seas Fleet ships could easily be deployed to the Baltic via the Kiel Canal when the North Sea was quiet), the Russians played a mainly defensive role, at most attacking convoys between Germany and Sweden and laying offensive minefields. Russian and British submarines attacked German shipping sailing between Sweden and Germany.\n\nWith heavy defensive and offensive mining on both sides, fleets played a limited role on the Eastern Front. The Germans mounted major naval attacks on the Gulf of Riga, unsuccessfully in August 1915 and successfully in October 1917, when they occupied the islands in the Gulf (Operation Albion) and damaged Russian ships departing from Riga (Battle of Moon Sound), which had recently been captured by Germany.\n\nBy March 1918, the Russian Revolution and the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk made the Germans masters of the Baltic sea and German fleets transferred troops to support newly independent Finland and to occupy much of Russia, halting only when defeated in the West. The Russians evacuated the Baltic fleet from Helsinki and Reval to Kronstadt during the Ice Cruise of the Baltic Fleet in March 1918.\n\nThe Black Sea was the domain of both the Russian and Ottoman Empires but the Russian fleet dominated the sea. It possessed a large fleet based in Sevastopol and it was led by two skilled commanders: Admiral Eberhart and Admiral Kolchak (who took over in 1916).\n\nThe war in the Black Sea started when the Ottoman fleet bombarded several Russian cities in October 1914. The most advanced ships in the Ottoman fleet consisted of just two German ships: the battlecruiser and light cruiser , both under the command of Admiral Wilhelm Souchon. \"Goeben\" was damaged on at least four different occasions and was usually chased back to port by the superior Russian Navy. By the end of 1915, the Russian fleet had nearly complete control of the sea.\n\nThe Black Sea fleet was used mainly to support General Yudenich in his Caucasus Campaign. For example, in August 1915, a Russian submarine and two Russian destroyers attacked a Turkish convoy of four transports escorted by a cruiser and two destroyers. The Russian ships sank all four transports without losing a ship. Later, during the summer of 1916, the Ottoman army, under, Vehip Pasha, was ordered to re-take Trebizond. The Ottoman forces tried to march along the coast in June but the Russian fleet was able to reduce the speed of their advance to a crawl using naval bombardment to harass marching troops and destroy their supply columns. Eventually the Ottoman army gave up and withdrew.\n\nAfter Admiral Kolchak took command (August 1916), the Russian fleet mined the exit from the Bosporus, preventing nearly all Ottoman ships from entering the Black Sea. Later that year, the naval approaches to Varna were also mined. The greatest loss suffered by the Russian Black Sea fleet was the destruction of the modern dreadnought , which blew up in port on 7 October 1916, just one year after it was commissioned. The sinking of \"Imperatritsa Mariya\" was never fully explained; it could have been sabotage or a terrible accident.\n\nThe Revolution and subsequent civil war devastated the Russian Navy. Only the Baltic fleet based at Petrograd remained largely intact, although it was attacked by the British Royal Navy in 1919. Foreign Interventionists occupied the Pacific, Black Sea and Arctic coasts. Most of the surviving Black Sea Fleet warships, with crews loyal to the White Russian movement, became part of Wrangel's fleet under the control of commander Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel and after evacuating White forces and civilians from the Crimea were eventually interned in Bizerta, Tunisia. Russian sailors fought on both sides in this bloody conflict. The sailors of the Baltic fleet rebelled against harsh treatment by the Soviet authorities in the Kronstadt rebellion of 1921.\n\nThe surviving ships formed the core of the Soviet Navy on its 1918 establishment, though the remnants of Wrangel's fleet never returned to Russia.\n\nBeginning in the second half of the 19th century, ranks of the IRN were divided according to speciality and branch.\n\nSeamen and NCO's\n\nOfficers\n\nRanks of these troops mirrored those of the Imperial Russian Army from Private to General, and were distinguished from those in the army.\n\nMarine enlisted and NCOs\n\nMarine officers\n\nMarine enlisted and NCOs\n\nOfficers\n\nUntil 1905 the Naval Mechanical Engineers Corps and the Fleet Engineers Corps had unique ranks. Both changed to ground-based ranks that year and in 1912 the former changed its ranks again to naval based ranks.\n\n\nUnlike other navies of its time, the Imperial Russian Navy sported only shoulder rank insignia for officers and ratings.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916673", "title": "Maple GO Station", "text": "Maple GO Station\n\nMaple GO Station is a train and bus station on GO Transit's Barrie line, located in Maple, Ontario, Canada. It is Ontario's oldest operating railway station, with passenger service dating back to 1853.\n\nMaple Station opened on May 16, 1853 when the service began on the Ontario, Simcoe, and Huron Railroad between Toronto and Machell's Corners (now Aurora). At the time, the station was named \"Richmond Hill\", despite being six kilometres west of that community. Train service was extended to Barrie later in 1853, and to Collingwood in 1855.\n\nThe current station building was constructed in 1903 by the Grand Trunk Railway to replace the original Ontario, Simcoe and Huron building, which had burned down. The Queen Anne style timber frame structure is clad in wood using stick style patterns, and features large gables in its roofline. It is federally protected by the Heritage Railway Stations Protection Act. The building is also protected under Part V of the \"Ontario Heritage Act\", as part of the Maple Heritage Conservation District.\n\nThe building underwent renovations that were completed in January 2014 for million. It included repairs to the facade and interior, replacement of the floor, and an upgrade to the accessibility ramps. An additional 60 parking spaces were added to the station in the spring of 2015.\n\nThe station will undergo a redevelopment starting in 2019 including the addition of a second rail track, new rail platforms with a full canopy, a new multi-level parking structure connected to the platforms by a pedestrian plaza, and the bus loop will be upgraded.\n\nAs of January 2018, train service operates approximately every 15–30 minutes in the morning peak period, every 30 minutes in the afternoon peak period and every hour at other times. Outside of peak periods, most trains terminate at Aurora with connecting buses for stations further north.\n\nOn weekends and holidays, service operates approximately hourly between Aurora and Toronto. Three daily trains in each direction cover the full route from Barrie to Toronto, while the remainder have bus connections at Aurora station for stations further north.\n\nYork Region Transit:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916679", "title": "Luc Lacourcière", "text": "Luc Lacourcière\n\nLuc Lacourcière, CC (October 18, 1910 – May 15, 1989) was a Quebec author and ethnographer, who established himself during his lifetime as a leading figure in folklore studies. Trained by Marius Barbeau, he in turn influenced renowned researchers such as linguist Claude Poirier. In 1944, Lacourcière founded the Archives de folklore (AF), which he directed until 1975. Since 1978, a Luc-Lacourcière medal has been awarded every two years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916682", "title": "Last Guardian of Everness", "text": "Last Guardian of Everness\n\nLast Guardian of Everness is a fantasy novel by John C. Wright (the author's first such novel, having been written before \"The Golden Age\"). It has a sequel, \"Mists of Everness\".\n\nThe novel tells the tale of Raven, son of Raven, who bargains with a necromancer, Koschei the Deathless, to save the life of his pretty young wife Wendy, who is in the terminal ward of the hospital. The price is that Raven must kill an innocent stranger. The stranger selected is Galen Waylock, the youngest and last watchman of an order of guardians protecting mankind from a supernatural invasion through the Gates of Greater Slumber. The conceit is that man has been separated from the world of dreams in order to preserve him: the fairies and gods remembered in myth yearn to re-establish their old rule.\n\nThe story draws on varied mythological sources. Koschei (or Koschey) the Deathless is from Russian folk tales; the Selkie are from Irish lore, the Kelpie, Scottish; Oberon, Titania, and Merlin the Magician, English. The giants Surtvitnir and Bergelmir are Norse. The angels and fallen angels in the story answer either to their Christian or pagan names: The Archangel Uriel, for example, is also called Hyperion, and Apollo the Destroyer.\n"}
{"id": "1916689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916689", "title": "Chemical accident", "text": "Chemical accident\n\nA chemical disaster is the unintentional release of one or more hazardous substances which could harm human health and the environment. Chemical hazards are systems where chemical accidents could occur under certain circumstances. Such events include fires, explosions, leakages or release of toxic or hazardous materials that can \ncause people illness, injury, or disability. \n\nWhile chemical accidents may occur whenever toxic materials are stored, transported or used, the most severe are industrial accidents, involving major chemical manufacturing and storage facilities. The most dangerous chemical accident in recorded in history was the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy in India, in which more than 3,000 people had died after a highly toxic vapour, (methyl isocyanate), was released at a Union Carbide Pesticides factory.\n\nEfforts to prevent accidents range from improved safety systems to fundamental changes in chemical use and manufacture, referred to as primary prevention or inherent safety.\n\nIn the United States, concern about chemical accidents after the Bhopal disaster led to the passage of the 1986 Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act. The EPCRA requires local emergency planning efforts throughout the country, including emergency notifications. The law also requires companies to make publicly available information about their storage of toxic chemicals. Based on such information, citizens can identify the vulnerable zones in which severe toxic releases could cause harm or even in some cases death.\n\nIn 1990, the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board was established by Congress, though the CSB did not become operational until 1998. The Board's mission is to determine the root causes of chemical accidents and issue safety recommendations to prevent future Safety Performance Indicators. It also organizes workshops on a number of issues related to preparing for, preventing, and responding to chemical accidents.\n\nIn the European Union, incidents such as the Flixborough disaster and the Seveso disaster led to legislation such as the Seveso Directive and Seveso planning and provide for \nsafety reports to local authorities. Many countries have organisations that can assist with substance risk assessment and emergency planning that is required by a wide variety of legislation, such as the National Chemical Emergency Centre in the UK, Brandweerinformatiecentrum voor gevaarlijke stoffen/Fire service information centre for dangerous goods in Belgium. \n\n"}
{"id": "1916690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916690", "title": "KPFK", "text": "KPFK\n\nKPFK (90.7 FM) is a listener-sponsored radio station based in North Hollywood, California, United States, which serves Southern California, and also streams 24 hours a day via the Internet. It was the second of five stations in the non-commercial, listener-sponsored Pacifica Foundation network.\n\nKPFK 90.7 FM began broadcasting in April 1959, twelve years after the Pacifica Foundation was created by pacifist Lewis Hill, and ten years after the network's flagship station, KPFA, was founded in Berkeley. KPFK also broadcasts on booster KPFK-FM1 along the Malibu coast, K258BS (99.5 MHz) in China Lake, California, K254AH (98.7 MHz) in Isla Vista, California and K229BO 93.7 MHz in Rancho Bernardo, San Diego, California.\n\nWith its 110,000-watt main transmitter atop Mount Wilson, KPFK is one of the most powerful FM stations in the western United States. The station can be heard from the California/Mexico border to Santa Barbara to Ridgecrest/China Lake. A second 10-watt translator is licensed in Isla Vista, California, a census-designated place outside Santa Barbara. The transmitter for that station is located atop Gibraltar Peak, allowing its broadcast to be heard over a large portion of southern Santa Barbara County.\nThe station is part of the \"Pacifica Network\" which has 5 radio stations besides KPFK, and provides programming to over 150 affiliates.\n\nOperating costs are covered primarily by donations from listener-sponsors and sponsored events. The 501(c)3 non-profit station runs no paid commercial advertisements or sponsored programming. Memberships at a minimum donation of $25 allow participation in the election of Local Station Board members.\n\nIn two years during a 3-year cycle, station members and staff elect the Local Station Board (LSB) as required by the Pacifica Foundation Bylaws. The KPFK LSB elects members from its body to the Pacifica Foundation board of directors and has support and advisory duties for the station. The full LSB meets monthly, and committees of the LSB meet on both regular and ad hoc bases.\n\nLike all Pacifica stations, KPFK has, since its inception run an eclectic schedule of performing arts, public affairs, and news. Many programs are available through the Pacifica Network for rebroadcast to affiliate stations and are streamed for a limited period on the Online Archives.\n\nMaintaining its adherence to Pacifica founder Lew Hill's Mission, KPFK focuses on news, public affairs, and performance of local interest, while blending in nationally and internationally focused programming.\n\nProgramming includes twelve hours broadcast in Spanish from 9:00 p.m.-midnight. With the rest of the Pacifica Foundation stations and in accord with the Mission's commitment to dialogue, KPFK maintains community access to the airwaves, which was stated as:\n\n\"to serve the cultural welfare of the community... to contribute to a lasting understanding between nations and between the individuals of all nations, races, creeds and colors; to gather and disseminate information on the causes of conflict between any and all of such groups; and through any and all means compatible with the purposes of this corporation to promote the study of political and economic problems and of the causes of religious, philosophical and racial antagonisms. In radio broadcasting operations to promote the full distribution of public information; to obtain access to sources of news not commonly brought together in the same medium; and to employ such varied sources in the public presentation of accurate, objective, comprehensive news on all matters vitally affecting the community.\"\n\n\nIn addition to the main station, KPFK is relayed by an additional three translators and one booster to widen its broadcast area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916692", "title": "Ivan Asen I of Bulgaria", "text": "Ivan Asen I of Bulgaria\n\nIvan Asen I, also known as Asen I or John Asen I (; died in 1196) was emperor (or tsar) of Bulgaria from 1187 or 1188 to 1196 as the co-ruler with his elder brother, Peter II. He was the son of a wealthy shepherd from the mountains of the Byzantine theme (district) of Paristrion. All contemporaneous chronicles describe Asen I and his brothers as Vlachs.\n\nAsen and Peter (who was still known as Theodor at that time) went to see the Byzantine Emperor, Isaac II Angelos, in Thrace in 1185, to demand an estate in the Balkan Mountains. After the Emperor had refused them, the brothers persuaded their compatriots to rise up against the Byzantine Empire. Peter was crowned emperor before the end of the year. After Isaac II defeated them in early 1186, Asen and Peter fled over the Danube, but they returned in the autumn, accompanied by Cuman reinforcements. They captured Paristrion and began pillaging the nearby Byzantine territories.\n\nAsen became his brother's co-ruler in 1187 or 1188. Peter made a peace with the Byzantines, but Asen continued the fight. They divided their realm, with Asen receiving Tarnovo and its region. Asen made a series of raids against Byzantine territories and expanded his rule over the lands along the Struma River in the early 1190s. A boyar (aristocrat), Ivanko, stabbed him to death in 1196.\n\nThe careers of Asen and his brother, Theodor, suggest they were descended from a prominent family, according to historian Alicia Simpson. Historian Alexandru Madgearu says their father was most probably a wealthy man who owned herds in the Balkan Mountains. Asen's birth date is unknown.\n\nThe \"Synodikon of Tsar Boril\" calls him \"Ioan Asen Belgun\". One of the \"Lives\" of Ivan of Rila confirms that Ivan (or Ioan) was his baptismal name. His other two names are of Turkic origin: Asen came from a Turkic word meaning \"sound, safe, healthy\", Belgun from a word for \"wise\". The ethnic background of Asen and his brothers is still a source of controversy among historians. Chronicles written in the late 12th and early 13th centuries unanimously described them as Vlachs. Their close relationship with the Cumans, and the Turkic etymology of Asan's names, implies they were of Cuman or Pecheneg stock. According to a scholarly theory, the multiethnic character of their homeland, the Byzantine theme (or district) of Paristrion, makes it probable that Vlachs, Bulgarians and Cumans were among their ancestors.\n\nRobert of Clari, author of a chronicle of the early history of the Latin Empire of Constantinople, stated that Asen (whom Clari confused with his younger brother, Kaloyan) had \"once [been] a sergeant of the emperor, having charge of one of the emperor's horse farms\". He noted that Asen was obliged to send sixty to one hundred horses to the imperial army at the Emperor's order. According to Simpson, Clari's report may only show that Asen was not a landowner, but a pastoralist.\n\nIn the autumn of 1185, the Byzantine Emperor Isaac II Angelos encamped at Kypsela in Thrace (now İpsala in Turkey) during his campaign against the Normans of Sicily, who had invaded the Byzantine Empire. Theodor and Asen came to the camp to meet with the Emperor. Byzantine historian Niketas Choniates suggests they came only to provide grounds for their uprising. Clari says, Asen, as the manager of an imperial horse farm, was to come to the imperial court \"once a year\".\n\nTheodor and Asen requested a grant from the Emperor, but its nature is uncertain. The words of Choniates, who recorded the events, suggest they applied for a \"pronoia\" (revenues of an imperial estate). On the other hand, a \"pronoia\" of little value was seldom granted personally by the monarch. This implies the brothers demanded something more, such as the governorship of a district, or the administration of a semi-independent territory, according to modern scholarly theories. The Emperor rebuffed the brothers' request, but they dared to argue with his decision. Asen, whom Choniates characterized as the \"more insolent and savage of the two\", was especially impertinent and was \"struck across the face and rebuked for impudence\" at the command of Isaac II's uncle, John Doukas. They were not detained and could leave the Emperor's camp.\n\nA special tax, levied to finance the Emperor's marriage to Margaret of Hungary had brought the Bulgarian and Vlach population to the edge of an uprising before the public humiliation of Asen and his brother at the imperial camp. In spite of the general discontent, the brothers were initially unable to stir up a rebellion, because their compatriots did not believe they had any chance against the imperial troops. Theodor and Asen took advantage of the sack of Thessaloniki by the Normans, during which icons of Demetrius of Thessaloniki, the patron saint of the town, were taken to Bulgaria. They built a \"house of prayer\" and summoned Bulgarian and Vlach shamans to the site. The brothers instructed these \"demoniacs\", as Choniates called them, to declare before the mob that God \"had consented to their freedom\" and Saint Demetrius would \"come over to them\" from Thessaloniki \"to be their helper and assistant\" against the Byzantines.\n\nTheodor was crowned and assumed the name Peter, thus adopting the name of a 10th-century tsar (or emperor) of Bulgaria. The coronation and Theodor's new name are evidence the brothers wanted to demonstrate from the beginning they had established a state which was the political successor of the First Bulgarian Empire. They laid siege to Preslav, the old capital of the Bulgarian Empire but could not capture it. During the first months of 1186, the brothers made plundering raids against Thrace, seizing captives and cattle. Isaac II led a counteroffensive against the rebels in person, but they resisted the invaders hiding in \"inaccessible places\" in the mountains. It was only the solar eclipse of 21 April 1186 that enabled the imperial troops to mount an unexpected attack and defeat the rioters. Peter and Asen fled from their homeland and crossed the Lower Danube, seeking military assistance from the Cumans.\n\nIsaac II thought his victory was decisive and returned to Constantinople without securing the defense of Paristrion. Peter and Asen made an alliance with some Cuman chieftains who helped them to return to the Byzantine Empire in the autumn. Choniates wrote contradictory reports about the negotiations between the brothers and the Cumans. In a formal speech, he attributed the alliance to Peter's efforts; in his chronicle, he emphasized Asen's role. Shortly after their return, the brothers took control of Paristrion and launched a plundering expedition against Thrace. Asen's military tactics—the application of sudden raids and quick withdrawals—prevented the imperial troops from making successful counterattacks. Choniates emphasized the brothers were not simply content to seize Mysia (or Paristrion) but had decided to \"unite the political power of Mysia and Bulgaria into one empire as of old\", referring to their attempt to restore the First Bulgarian Empire.\n\nSeals bearing the inscription Ivan \"\"basileus\"\" (or emperor) of the Bulgarians were found in Constantinople and other places. According to George Akropolites, \"Asen ruled over the Bulgarian race as emperor for nine years\" before he died in 1196. This suggests Asen became his brother's co-ruler in 1187 or 1188. The Byzantines launched a series of unsuccessful campaigns against the rebellious Bulgarians and Vlachs, but they could not prevent Peter and Asen from securing their rule in Paristrion. Isaac II personally led his troops against the brothers' realm and laid siege to Lovech in the spring of 1188. Although he could not occupy the fortress, the Byzantines captured Asen's wife, Helen, and his younger brother, Kaloyan. He was held hostage in Constantinople for years.\n\nThe arrival of the crusader army of the Holy Roman Emperor, Frederick Barbarossa, in the Balkan Peninsula in July 1189 enabled Peter and Asen to occupy new territories of the Byzantine Empire. One of the chronicles of Barbarossa's crusade, \"The History of the Expedition of the Emperor Frederick\", explicitly mentions that they seized \"the region where the Danube flows into the sea\" (present-day Dobruja) and parts of Thrace. When writing of the negotiations between Barbarossa and the brothers' envoys during the march of the crusaders across the Balkans, primary sources mention only Peter, suggesting he was regarded as the senior ruler of Bulgaria. The crusaders left the Balkans for Asia Minor in March 1190.\n\nShortly after the crusaders' departure, Isaac II Angelos moved into the lands under the rule of Peter and Asen. He could not defeat the Vlachs and Bulgarians, because they avoided a pitched battle, forcing the Emperor to start to retreat. The imperial army was ambushed and defeated at a mountain pass. The victorious Vlachs and Bulgarians, along with their Cuman allies, launched new raids against Thrace, pillaging Anchialos (now Pomorie in Bulgaria) and other towns. Isaac II defeated the Cumans near Adrianople (now Edirne in Turkey) in April 1191. Thereafter his cousin, Constantine Angelos Doukas, routed Peter and Asen's troops in a series of battles.\n\nA eulogy delivered in praise of Isaac II in 1193 referred to Asen as a \"reckless and obdurate rebel\", surrounded by \"imperial traps\", while describing Peter as a \"stumbling block\" and an \"adverse wind\" to his brother. The speech shows, Byzantine intrigues stirred up a conflict between the brothers in 1192. Madgearu says, Peter was allegedly willing to make peace with the Byzantines, but Asen wanted to continue the war. Akropolites knew that Peter moved from Tarnovo to Preslav at an unspecified date, a region known as \"Peter's land\" even in the 13th century. Historians Madgearu and Paul Stephenson agree, the sources provide evidence the brothers divided their realm around 1192, with Asen retaining Tarnovo and its region.\n\nAfter Constantine Angelos Doukas was blinded during the rebellion against Isaac II, the Vlachs and the Bulgarians resumed their attacks against the Byzantine Empire. The Emperor dispatched Alexios Gidos and Basil Vatatzes to wage war against the invaders, but their united armies were almost annihilated in the Battle of Arcadiopolis. Peter and Asen conquered new territories in Thrace, including Plovdiv.\n\nIsaac II decided to launch a new campaign to recover Thrace himself. While he was mustering his troops at Kypsela, his brother, Alexios, captured and blinded him on 8 April 1195. Alexios III sent envoys to Peter and Asen, proposing to make peace with them. The brothers refused the new emperor's proposal. Asen moved into Byzantine territory and defeated Alexios Aspietes. He captured the Byzantine fortresses along the River Struma leaving Vlach and Bulgarian troops to garrison them.\n\nA new Byzantine army, under the command of the Emperor's son-in-law, Isaac Komnenos, launched a counterinvasion. Asen's Vlach, Bulgarian and Cuman troops surrounded the invaders and defeated them near Serres. Komnenos was captured by a Cuman warrior who secretly tried to hold him to ask for a huge ransom from the Emperor. When Asen was informed of Komnenos's capture, he ordered the Cuman to hand over his captive.\n\nA boyar Ivanko stabbed Asen in 1196, but the motive for this act is uncertain. Choniates, who narrated the events, recorded two versions. According to one account, the captive Isaac Komnenos persuaded Ivanko to kill the Tsar, promising to give his daughter in marriage to him. The second version claims, Ivanko had \"clandestine sexual relations with the sister of Asen's wife\", but their affair was revealed to Asen. He decided to have his sister-in-law executed for the illicit love affair which insulted his family, but his wife persuaded him to punish Ivanko instead of her sister. Asen ordered Ivanko to come to his tent late at night. Ivanko who had been informed about the tsar's decision came with a sword hidden under his garments. He killed Asen during the meeting.\n\nChoniates stated, Ivanko wanted to rule \"more justly and equitably\" than Asan who had \"governed everything by the sword\". Stephenson concludes, Choniates' words show that Asen had introduced a \"reign of terror\", intimidating his subjects with the assistance of Cuman mercenaries. Vásáry, however, says the Byzantines encouraged Ivanko to kill Asen. Ivanko attempted to assume control in Tarnovo with Byzantine support, but Peter forced him to flee to the Byzantine Empire. Peter charged Kaloyan with the governing of Asen's realm.\n\nAsen fathered at least two sons, Ivan Asen and Alexander. Ivan Asen, who was born around 1193, became the emperor of Bulgaria in 1218. His younger brother, Alexander, bore the title \"sebastokrator\" during Ivan Asen II's reign.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916712", "title": "Rabinowitz", "text": "Rabinowitz\n\nRabinowitz (also Rabinowicz) (רבינוביץ), is a Polish Ashkenazi Jewish surname, Slavic for \"\"son of the rabbi\"\". The Russian equivalents are Rabinovich or Rabinovitch.\n\nIt may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916719", "title": "List of school districts in California by county", "text": "List of school districts in California by county\n\nSchool districts in California are similar to those in the rest of the United States. Districts administer schools in different education levels, and this can often be identified in the district's name.\n\n\n\n\n\nDel Norte Unified School District\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916742", "title": "Aurora GO Station", "text": "Aurora GO Station\n\nAurora GO Station is a railway station and bus station in the GO Transit network located on Wellington Street East between Yonge Street and Bayview Avenue in Aurora, Ontario, Canada. It is a stop on the Barrie line train service, and connects with York Region Transit local bus routes, and the GO Express Bus between Newmarket Bus Terminal and Union Station Bus Terminal.\n\nAurora station opened on 16 May 1853, when steam train service began between Toronto and Machell's Corners, as Aurora was then known, on the Ontario, Simcoe and Huron Railway. The first train was led by the \"Toronto\", the first locomotive built in Canada, completed at the James Good foundry \"Toronto Locomotive Works\" on 16 April 1853. The train consist included two boxcars carrying freight, one passenger coach car, and one mixed passenger and baggage car. This first voyage is commemorated by a plaque installed in 1953 at Union Station in Toronto, as well as a steam locomotive bell placed first at Centennial Park in May 1963, which has since been relocated to Aurora station. There is also a plaque placed in a small parkette at the station by the Board of Trade and another placed by the Province of Ontario to remember the event.\n\nThe train's arrival at the Wellington Street train station was greeted with cheers from nearly all residents of the community, who had assembled at the station, and the event was celebrated with a fireworks display. Connection to the railway led to prosperity for Aurora, with the development of two hotels, a wagon maker, a brewery, and other businesses. In 1855 the line was completed to Collingwood.\n\nIn 1900, Grand Trunk Railway constructed the present building to a standard plan design with a porte-cochère and low profile. The building was designated a provincial heritage building in 1971 and a federal heritage railway station in 1990.\n\nThe station building was renovated after GO Transit became the exclusive passenger carrier in 1992.\n\nOn August 21, 2012, GO Transit opened a new bus loop to accommodate all GO and York Region Transit bus service at the station.\n\nAs of January 2018, weekday train service operates approximately every 15–30 minutes in the morning peak period (southbound), every 30 minutes in the afternoon peak period (northbound) and every hour at other times. Outside of peak periods, most trains terminate at Aurora with connecting buses for stations further north.\n\nOn weekends and holidays, service operates approximately every hour to and from Union Station, with most trains terminating at Aurora station. Three daily trains in each direction cover the full route from Barrie to Toronto, while the remainder have bus connections at Aurora station for stations further north.\n\n\nUnder the GO Transit Regional Express Rail plan, by a target date of 2024 service will be increased to run every 15 minutes during peak, midday, evenings, and weekends between Aurora and Toronto using electric trains rather than the current diesel trains, and along the full route between Barrie and Toronto every 30 minutes during peak and every 60 minutes off-peak.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916749", "title": "Newmarket GO Station", "text": "Newmarket GO Station\n\nNewmarket GO Station is a train station in the GO Transit network located in the Old Davis Tannery Centre on the north side of Davis Drive East in Newmarket, Ontario, Canada, and is a stop on the Barrie line train service. It is a little over two kilometres east of the Newmarket Bus Terminal, at Davis Drive West and Eagle Street, which is a terminus for GO Bus, York Region Transit and Viva BRT services.\n\nIn 1853 the Ontario, Simcoe and Huron Railway opened the line between Toronto and Collingwood which was acquired by the Grand Trunk Railway in 1888 and later merged into the Canadian National Railway.\n\nNewmarket railway station was built on the south side of Davis Drive by the Grand Trunk Railway in 1900. The original NRC station was subsequently repurposed as a freight shed.\nThe second station building is a one-storey wood clad stick frame building with board and batten siding associated with the Carpenter Gothic style. The west side has a projecting bay window flanked by waiting rooms, originally the south room for women and the north room for men.\n\nThe station building was designated a municipal heritage building in 1987 under the \"Ontario Heritage Act\", and as a federal heritage building in 1992 under the Heritage Railway Stations Protection Act.\n\nThe GO Transit Barrie line is now owned by Metrolinx and the historic Grand Trunk Railway station is owned by the Town of Newmarket.\n\nA platform extension and repair project began in March 2014. It also includes the rehabilitation of the parking lot, a new ticket booth with a customer waiting area and improved accessibility features.\n\nNewmarket station has weekday service consisting of 10 trains southbound to Union Station in the morning, a train northbound to Bradford in the early afternoon, 7 trains northbound to Allandale Waterfront Station in the afternoon and 2 trains northbound to Bradford in the evening and night. At other times, GO bus route 68 operates hourly between Barrie Bus Terminal and Aurora GO Station where passengers can connect to the all-day train service to Toronto.\n\nWeekend train service consists of 3 trains southbound to Union station in the morning and 3 trains returning northbound in the afternoon and evening. At other times, the station is served by GO bus route 68 which operates hourly between Barrie Bus Terminal and Aurora GO station, where passengers can transfer to the all-day weekend train service toward Toronto.\n\nAll buses serve the GO station from bus stops on Davis Drive and Main Street.\n\nYork Region Transit:\n\nGO Transit:\n\n"}
{"id": "1916760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916760", "title": "Rutherford GO Station", "text": "Rutherford GO Station\n\nRutherford GO Station is a train and bus station in the GO Transit network located in Vaughan, Ontario, Canada. It is a stop on the Barrie line train service. This station was opened in January 2001 to accommodate the growing ridership on the line. It is currently going through a redevelopment project which is expected to be completed in 2023.\n\nThis station was opened in January 2001 to accommodate the growing ridership on the Barrie line along with the growing communities surrounding Rutherford GO Station. Another reason for the station's presence was due to Maple GO Station's parking congestion prior to Rutherford's opening.\n\nIn May 2017, Metrolinx issued a request for qualification (RFQ) for the redevelopment of the station. The proposal requires infrastructure upgrades at the station, including the addition of a second rail track, new rail platforms with a full canopy, and grade separation of the rail intersection with Rutherford Road. A new station building will be constructed that will integrate a multi-level parking structure.\n\nIn November 2017 Infrastructure Ontario issued a request for proposal from EllisDon Infrastructure Transit, Link Rutherford Station, and Steelhead, the three candidates shortlisted from the RFQ process, for the design, construction, and maintenance of the site. In December 2018, the contract for the project was awarded to EllisDon Infrastructure Transit and it was announced that construction on the project would start the next spring and finish in 2023.\n\nAs of January 2018, train service operates approximately every 15–30 minutes in the morning peak period, every 30 minutes in the afternoon peak period and every hour at other times. Outside of peak periods, most trains terminate at Aurora with connecting buses for stations further north.\n\nThis station is served by 3 York Region Transit (YRT) bus routes:\n\nOn weekends and holidays, service operates approximately hourly between Aurora and Toronto. Three daily trains in each direction cover the full route from Barrie to Toronto, while the remainder have bus connections at Aurora station for stations further north.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916765", "title": "East Gwillimbury GO Station", "text": "East Gwillimbury GO Station\n\nEast Gwillimbury GO Station is a train and bus station in the GO Transit network located in East Gwillimbury, Ontario, Canada. It is a stop on the Barrie line train service. The station was opened on November 1, 2004.\n\nEast Gwillimbury station has weekday train service consisting of 10 trains southbound to Union Station in the morning, 1 train northbound to Bradford in the early afternoon, 7 trains northbound to Barrie in the afternoon and 2 trains northbound to Bradford in the evening and night. At other times, GO bus route 68 operates hourly between Barrie Bus Terminal and Aurora GO Station, where passengers can connect to the all-day train service to Toronto.\n\nWeekend train service consists of 3 trains southbound to Union station in the morning and 3 trains returning northbound in the afternoon and evening. At other times, the station is served by GO bus route 68 which operates hourly between Barrie Bus Terminal and Aurora GO station, where passengers can transfer to the all-day weekend train service toward Toronto.\n\nThe station has a bus terminal located on the north side where GO Bus service supplements trains during the time when no trains are scheduled. York Region Transit (YRT) routes extend here from their regular termini during rush hours to connect with GO Trains.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916773", "title": "Bradford GO Station", "text": "Bradford GO Station\n\nBradford GO Station is a railway station and bus station in the GO Transit network located in Bradford, Ontario in Canada. It is 67 km north of Union Station in downtown Toronto, and was the terminus of the Bradford line before it was extended to Barrie and renamed the Barrie line on December 17, 2007.\n\nBradford has had railway service since 1853, when the Ontario, Simcoe and Huron Railway was extended there from Machell's Corners (now known as Aurora). This would evolve into the Northern Railway of Canada, which was later acquired by the Grand Trunk Railway. It eventually became a part of the Canadian National Railway system in 1923.\n\nIn 1972, a Barrie commuter service to Toronto was established by CN Rail at the request of the Canadian Transportation Commission, which passed through Bradford. When CN Rail's passenger operations were transferred to the newly-formed Via Rail in 1978, the Barrie commuter line became a Via operation. This would be short-lived, however, as federal government budget cuts in 1981 eliminated 20% of Via Rail's network, including a number of commuter lines around Toronto, such as the Barrie line. After a significant public pressure campaign from transit activists and local municipalities along the line, the service was preserved and transferred from Via Rail to GO Transit. GO train service began on 7 September 1982, with Bradford as the terminal station, with GO bus service connecting riders from Barrie to Bradford. initial service was a single weekday round trip.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1993, Barrie succeeded Bradford as the terminal station on the line, before Ontario provincial government cuts caused the service to Barrie to end, with Bradford becoming the terminal station once again. Throughout the following years, train frequency along the line was gradually increased, with two trains a day starting in 1998. In 2007, service was finally extended north of Bradford once again, with Metrolinx's purchase of the CN Newmarket Subdivision. By the summer of 2012, five trains were running every weekday, and weekend and holiday train service was introduced for the summer.\n\nIn December 2018, the Town of Bradford West Gwillimbury voted to sell a vacant parcel of land north of the station to Metrolinx so that additional station parking could be constructed.\n\nBradford station has weekday train service consisting of 10 trains southbound to Union Station in the morning, 9 trains returning northbound in the afternoon and evening, and one train returning northbound at midnight. At other times, the station is served by GO bus route 68 which operates hourly between Barrie Bus Terminal and Aurora GO Station, where passengers can transfer to the all-day train service to Toronto.\n\nWeekend train service consists of 5 daily round trips between Barrie and Toronto. At other times, GO bus route 68 connects the station to Aurora GO station where passengers can transfer to the hourly weekend train service toward Toronto.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916779", "title": "Styles P", "text": "Styles P\n\nDavid Styles (born November 28, 1974), better known by his stage name Styles P or simply Styles, is an American rapper, best known as a member of hip hop group The Lox, alongside his childhood friends Sheek Louch and Jadakiss. Along with the other members of The Lox, he is a founder of D-Block Records and is also a part of the Ruff Ryders. In addition to his group work he has released multiple albums and mixtapes as a solo MC. In 2002 he released his debut solo album \"A Gangster and a Gentleman\", which contained the hit single \"Good Times\". The song peaked at number 22 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and received massive nationwide airplay in 2002.\n\nHe has gone on to release \"Time is Money\" (2006), \"Super Gangster (Extraordinary Gentleman)\" (2007), \"Master of Ceremonies\" (2011), \"The World's Most Hardest MC Project\" (2012), \"Float\" (2013), \"Phantom and the Ghost\" (2014), \"A Wise Guy and a Wise Guy\" (2015), and \"G-Host\" (2018).\n\nStyles P was born November 28, 1974 in Corona, Queens to a South African mother and a Jamaican father from Bed-Stuy. After his parents' divorce, Styles and his younger brother Gary moved to Yonkers with their mother. It was there he met lifelong friends Jadakiss and Sheek Louch. The trio bonded over their shared passion for hip hop and eventually formed a group known as The Lox in 1994.\n\nAs a trio, The Lox began rapping in the mid-1990s and started to build a steady underground following thanks to their performances and street freestyles. In their late teens, the trio met Mary J. Blige who was impressed with their lyrical content, and gave their demo to Sean “Diddy” Combs. Diddy immediately hired the trio to write for Bad Boy Records. After signing with Bad Boy, the Lox quickly started collaborating on hits with Diddy, The Notorious B.I.G., Mary J. Blige and Mariah Carey which gave them instant notoriety and status within the hip-hop and mainstream charts. In 1996 and 1997, the group wrote and performed on a number of Diddy hits, including \"It's All About the Benjamins\" and \"I Got the Power\", Mase's \"24 Hrs. to Live\", Mariah Carey's \"Honey\", the Notorious B.I.G.'s \"Last Day\" and Mary J. Blige's \"Can’t Get You Off My Mind\". In 1997, the Lox received international acclaim when their tribute to the late Biggie Smalls, \"We’ll Always Love Big Poppa\", was picked as the B-side track from Diddy’s \"No Way Out\" album (3x Platinum) with the number one hit, \"I'll Be Missing You\". This single was the most played hit in 1997, which opened the door for the Lox’s to write more of their own songs and eventually release their first album in January 1998 titled \"Money, Power & Respect\". The album went on to be certified platinum, and, although the album was a chart-topping success, the group grew to feel that the glossy image and production style of Bad Boy Records conflicted with their grimier rap aesthetic. After trying and failing to get Puff Daddy to grant them a release from their contract, the group confronted him in his office, with Styles P throwing a chair at his own boss. After this, the group was granted their release and left Bad Boy to sign with Ruff Ryder Records.\n\nAfter releasing another Lox album, \"We Are the Streets\" and appearing on albums with other Ruff Ryders artists, Styles released his first solo album, \"A Gangster and a Gentleman\", in 2002. The album was supported by the hit single, Good Times, which peaked at number 22 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and number 6 on the \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs. The song also received widespread airplay on the radio throughout 2002. In 2004, Styles was featured on an alternate version of Akon’s hit debut single, Locked Up. Two years later, he released his second album, \"Time is Money\" on Ruff Ryders which was followed by \"Super Gangster (Extraordinary Gentleman)\" a year later.\n\nAfter recording many mixtapes Styles returned to the Hip-Hop scene by releasing two retail albums in 2010, \"The Green Ghost Project\" with DJ Green Lantern on Invasion Records and \"The Ghost Dub-Dime\" a retail mixtape on E1 Records (formally Koch Records). This began a string of annual retail releases with his fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh albums (2011's \"Master of Ceremonies\", 2012's \"The World's Most Hardest MC Project\", 2013's \"Float\", and 2014's \"Phantom and the Ghost\") all being released within a year of each other.\n\nIn 2016, the Lox released their first album in 16 years, \"Filthy America... It's Beautiful\". The album reached number 6 on the \"Billboard\" Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. It was followed by the release of the albums, \"G-Host\" (2018), \"Dime Bag\" (2018), \"S.P. the GOAT: Ghost of All Time\" (2019) and \"Presence\" (2019). Styles P and Dave East also released a collab album titled \"Beloved\", in 2018. Styles P's 13th studio album, \"Styles David: Ghost Your Enthusiasm\", was released on May 22, 2020.\n\nStyles is a vegan and co-owns 4 juice bars in New York along with Jadakiss.\n\nStyles married his wife Adjua on July 31, 1995. Together, they have two children, Noah (born 1998) and Tai (1995—2015), whom Adjua had from a previous relationship. Styles served as Tai's stepfather for the majority of her life, until she committed suicide in 2015.\n\nStyles' younger brother, Gary Quarles Styles, died in a car accident on May 13, 2001. Styles has made many references to Gary in his music, including the tribute song \"\"My Brother\"\", from his debut album A Gangster and a Gentleman.\n\nIn 2002, Styles was involved in an altercation at a New York nightclub that led to him stabbing a man in the buttocks. Styles surrendered himself to authorities on November 26, 2002, and began serving his eight-month sentence in the Westchester County Jail in Valhalla, NY the same day. Styles was released from prison on August 4, 2003.\n\nStyles P released his first novel \"Invincible\" in 2010 through Random House Publishing Group. In 2011 he opened up a juice bar in Bronx, New York called Juices for Life with his business partners Nyger Rollocks and Leo Galvez. He released his EP with Currensy titled, \"#The1st28\" on February 28, 2012.\n\nStudio albums\nCollaboration albums\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916793", "title": "Margaret E. Burton", "text": "Margaret E. Burton\n\nMargaret Ernestine Burton (1885–1969) was an American missionary who traveled to China and Japan in 1909. She wrote several books based on her experiences and research while there.\n\nHer books include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1916805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916805", "title": "Old Cummer GO Station", "text": "Old Cummer GO Station\n\nOld Cummer GO Station is a train and bus station in the GO Transit network located in the North York district of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is a stop on the Richmond Hill line train service and offers service to Union Station in downtown Toronto.\n\nIn September 2004 construction began on a rehabilitated station building, providing improved lighting and providing accessible features into the station building.\n\nLocal transit services are provided by the Toronto Transit Commission, although the station is situated quite far from Finch Avenue or Leslie Street. Stairs and a footbridge across Finch Avenue provide pedestrian access to the south end of the station platform.\n\nPassengers boarding TTC first, then again at the end of their GO Transit journey may use a TTC transfer for their second ride. At Old Cummer GO Station this applies to bus routes 39 Finch East, 42 Cummer, 51 Leslie and 199 Finch Rocket.\n\nThe Canadian, VIA Rail's train between Vancouver and Toronto Union Station, passes through Old Cummer station but does not stop.\n"}
{"id": "1916810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916810", "title": "1950 Kulmbach by-election", "text": "1950 Kulmbach by-election\n\nThe Kulmbach by-election on May 14, 1950 was the first by-election for the Bundestag (Germany) that had been established 1949. It was caused by the death of Friedrich Schönauer (SPD) April 4, 1950 who had been elected at the 1949 German federal election\n\nDespite an increased result of the SPD, they lost the seat to Johannes Semler (CSU), who was supported by BP and FDP.\n\nThis by-election showed a strange effect in the German AMS electoral system of the first election. The SPD in Bavaria had won this seat in the first past the post constituency, but all seats are justified through proportional representation. By winning the Kulmbach seat at the by-election the CSU had technically greater representation than their 1949 results would have proportionally given them. This is a slight anomaly that the electoral law for the first Bundestag does not cater for, but was changed at the end of 1952.\n"}
{"id": "1916811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916811", "title": "Richmond Hill GO Station", "text": "Richmond Hill GO Station\n\nRichmond Hill GO Station is a train and bus station in the GO Transit network located in Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada. It was the northern terminus of the Richmond Hill line train service from the service's inception in 1982 until the opening of Gormley GO Station on December 5, 2016.\n\nOf the all the Richmond Hill line stations, this is the only station that has a reduced length platform which accommodates only up to an L8 consist, a trainset consisting of eight Bombardier BiLevel Coaches and at least one locomotive. Beginning in the spring of 2015, the platform was scheduled to be extended to allow 12-car trains. A pedestrian bridge over Major Mackenzie Drive was built, and a new station building was planned but has not been built. The train layover facility in Richmond Hill was opened in 2014.\n\nThe original Richmond Hill railway station was a single storey clapboard building, located on the north side of Centre Street East, just a short distance north of the current station. Built in 1906 by the James Bay Railway, the station was closed by Canadian National Railway in 1968 and the building was relocated in 1979 to Richmond Green, at Elgin Mills Road and Leslie Street, to serve as a clubhouse for local minor soccer teams.\nThe Richmond Hill GO Station will become a terminus for the planned Viva Silver buses, once that service begins operation in 2022.\n\nYork Region Transit:\n\nGO Transit:\n"}
{"id": "1916813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916813", "title": "Langstaff GO Station", "text": "Langstaff GO Station\n\nLangstaff GO Station is a train and bus station in the GO Transit network located in Richmond Hill, Ontario in Canada. It is a stop on the Richmond Hill line train service.\n\nIn May 2005, construction of a new and more modern station building was completed, replacing the previous station building at Langstaff Road and using the north end of the same train platform. The south building was converted to a waiting room after the new station building opened for service on June 6, 2005. The new building has a ticket office for passengers to purchase bus and train tickets on weekday mornings.\n\nLangstaff Road East was the original routing of Highway 7 between Yonge Street and Bayview Avenue. When Highway 7 was upgraded, an overpass was constructed over the Canadian National Railway tracks, and the area north of Langstaff road became a large commuter parking lot. With the construction of Highway 407, the south lot was reduced in size, but newer developments north of the former Highway 7 led to the building of the new terminal. The south parking lot has a kiss and ride loop.\n\nGO Transit Bus Connections:\n\nYork Region Transit's Viva bus rapid transit serves the Richmond Hill Centre Terminal immediately west of Langstaff station, but is separated by the train tracks. A pedestrian bridge was opened in March 2008 to connect Richmond Hill Centre Terminal and the GO train station. In 2011, GO Transit moved all Highway 407 East bus services from Langstaff GO Station to Richmond Hill Centre Terminal. GO Transit also operates Airport Express GO Bus service from Richmond Hill Centre Terminal to Hamilton GO Centre via Toronto Pearson International Airport.\n\nThe following York Region Transit (YRT) services also stop at Richmond Hill Centre:\n"}
{"id": "1916815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916815", "title": "Darin Erstad", "text": "Darin Erstad\n\nDarin Charles Erstad (; born June 4, 1974) is an American former professional baseball player and the former head coach of the University of Nebraska Cornhuskers baseball team. Prior to , he had played with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim franchise (–) before signing with the Chicago White Sox in 2007. He batted and threw left-handed. He was a two-time MLB All-Star and a three-time Gold Glove Award winner.\n\nErstad graduated in 1992 from Jamestown High School in Jamestown, North Dakota. He was a kicker and punter on the school football team, logging a school-record 50-yard field goal. Erstad also played hockey (36 goals and 24 assists in 26 games) and participated in track and field (winning state titles in 110 and 300-meter hurdles).\n\nErstad played American Legion baseball (Jamestown had no high school baseball team) and hit .492 with 18 home runs and 86 RBI for Jamestown in 1992. He was also 10-2 with a 2.18 ERA as a pitcher, and was named AP North Dakota Athlete of the Year in 1992.\n\nErstad attended the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, playing baseball there for three years and held the school record for career hits with 261. In his final year there, Erstad hit .410 with 19 home runs and 79 RBIs, earning First-Team All-American status and was a finalist for the 1995 Golden Spikes Award.\n\nDarin started his junior campaign on a tear and never stopped hitting. He was at his best against the conference's top team, Oklahoma. In five games with the first-place Sooners, he batted .429 and blasted three home runs. Oklahoma lefty Mark Redman—with whom Darin would share conference Player of the Year honors—was among his biggest victims. The Huskers finished 35-23, and Darin led the Big Eight with a .410 average. He was the only batter in the conference to surpass 100 hits, and also led all players with seven triples. Named a First Team All-American by Collegiate Baseball, Darin set career highs with 19 homers and 76 RBIs.\n\nIn 1993 and 1994, Erstad played collegiate summer baseball with the Falmouth Commodores of the Cape Cod Baseball League (CCBL). He was named league MVP in 1994 and in 2001 was inducted into the CCBL Hall of Fame.\n\nErstad was also the starting punter on the Cornhuskers football team and was part of their 1994 National Championship squad, averaging 42.6 yards per punt, the 14th best mark in the country that year.\n\nIn his 14-season career, Erstad compiled a .282 batting average with 124 home runs and 699 RBIs in 1654 games. His career .9955 fielding percentage as an outfielder is second all-time through 2019 behind Jon Jay. He was selected to the American League All-Star team twice (1998, 2000) and had eight game-ending, or \"walk-off\", RBI in his career.\n\nThe then-titled California Angels chose Erstad as the first pick overall in the 1995 Major League Baseball draft from the University of Nebraska. He made his major league debut the next year, batting .284 over 57 games. He played his first full season in 1997, batting .299 with 16 home runs and 99 runs scored. Posting similarly solid statistics the next year, Erstad made his first of two All-Star appearances before having a disappointing season in 1999.\n\nErstad had a career season in , when he finished eighth in the American League in MVP voting. That year, he led the American League in hits (240), singles (170) and at-bats (676); he was second in total bases (366) and third in runs (121). He also hit .355, finishing second in the batting race behind Nomar Garciaparra (.372), became the first player in Major League history to record 100 RBIs as a leadoff hitter, and won the AL Silver Slugger Award.\n\nOn June 10, , Erstad hit a double in the Angels' 10-3 win over Arizona. With a major league-leading 100 hits in 61 games, he became the fastest to reach the 100-hit mark since Hall of Famer Heinie Manush did it in 60 games for the 1934 Washington Senators. With three hits on Aug. 29, 2000, he reached 200 hits faster than any player in 65 years. Erstad was just 26 years old at the end of the season, an age at which many players enter their prime, leading many to believe more superstar seasons were ahead of him.\n\nHe is one of only five batters, through August 2009, to have hit both a leadoff and walk-off home run in the same game (having done so in 2000), the others being Billy Hamilton (1893), Victor Power (1957), Reed Johnson (2003), and Ian Kinsler (2009).\n\nAfter 2001, however, Erstad never hit as high as .300, or hit over 10 home runs or slugged over .400 (2004) in any season.\n\nDespite all this, Erstad was a vital part of the 2002 World Series Champion Angels. After batting .421 in the American League Division Series against the New York Yankees and .364 in the American League Championship Series against the Minnesota Twins, Erstad batted .300 in the seven-game series vs. the National League Champion San Francisco Giants. He hit a key home run in Game 6 of the series with the Angels trailing, 5–3, in the eighth inning and facing elimination, and he also caught the final out of Game 7 hit by Kenny Lofton off Troy Percival into center field. When the Angels won the World Series in 2002, Erstad became just the second player hailing from North Dakota to be on a World Series winning roster. Roger Maris was the first with the 1961 Yankees and 1967 Cardinals.\n\nThroughout Erstad's Angels career, his defense remained exceptionally strong. He led all major league center fielders in range factor (3.39) in 2002. Erstad won Gold Glove awards in 2000, 2002, and 2004, when he made a transition from the outfield to first base. He is the only player in MLB history to have won Gold Gloves as an infielder and as an outfielder. He was also the first to win the award at different positions (though all outfield Gold Gloves are voted on together) until Plácido Polanco won an NL Gold Glove as a third baseman for the Philadelphia Phillies in 2011 after having won two Gold Gloves as a second baseman, thus both being infield awards.\n\nThough he compiled a career high 21 game hit streak in 2005, he only played in 40 games in 2006, his last season with the Angels. In 11 years with the franchise, Erstad compiled a .286 batting average and a cumulative .339 postseason average over three seasons. He currently ranks near the top of several franchise records.\n\nHaving signed a $750,000 contract in the off-season, Erstad hit a home run in his first at-bat as a member of the Chicago White Sox on opening day 2007 off CC Sabathia. He finished the season having batted .248 with a .650 OPS over 87 games. He played the following two seasons with the Houston Astros. Erstad found success in the first season, batting .276, but struggled near the end of the second season as a role player, ending the season with a .194 batting average. When catcher Chris Coste joined Erstad on the Astros roster in July 2009, they became the first two players born in North Dakota to play together on the same team in major league history.\n\nOn June 17, 2010, when asked if he would continue playing baseball, Erstad said that he was \"done\".\n\nErstad was on the 2015 ballot to be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. Erstad received one vote and fell off the ballot.\n\nOn July 5, 2010, the Lincoln Journal Star reported that Erstad accepted a position to become a volunteer coach for the Nebraska baseball team. On July 8, Nebraska head baseball coach Mike Anderson revealed Erstad as the college team's next hitting coach. On June 2, 2011, after Anderson was fired, Erstad was hired as Nebraska's head baseball coach. Erstad stepped down from coaching the Nebraska Cornhuskers after 8 seasons on June 3, 2019.\n\nErstad has three children with his wife, Jessica: a daughter, Jordan Elizabeth, and two sons, Zack and Adam.\n\nDuring Erstad's tenure with the Angels, his hometown carried all Angels games over the radio; most North Dakota stations only carry Minnesota Twins games. As of July 2009, he ranked second to Travis Hafner in all-time home runs hit by a player born in North Dakota.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916817", "title": "Halo Friendlies", "text": "Halo Friendlies\n\nThe Halo Friendlies were an all-girl pop punk band from Long Beach, California. After snatching up a guitar in a thrift shop while on her first date with then-boyfriend now-husband Matt Wignall of Havalina/Matt Death and the New Intellectuals, Judita Wignall made the decision to start a band. Originally featuring Wignall on lead vocals and guitar, Cheryl Hecht on guitar, Natalie Bolanos on bass guitar, Tafida Allen on drums, and Deanna Moody on percussion on their 1998 self-titled debut, by 1999's \"Acid Wash\", Hecht had dropped out of the project. She was then replaced by Ginger Reyes, who not only began sharing lead vocals with Wignall, but also took up bass guitar, allowing Bolanos to switch to lead guitar. In 2000 the Halo Friendlies replaced Moody with Christina Hock (Theobald). Theobald/Hock, however, was replaced shortly before the band's first sweep of the United Kingdom in 2003 by Claudia Rossi (ex- Jack Off Jill).\n\nCurrently, the band is on an indefinite hiatus to allow its members some time for solo creative efforts.\n\nFrom April 2007-March 2010, Ginger Reyes played bass guitar for The Smashing Pumpkins.\n\n\n\nThey had a song called \"Me vs. the world\" which appears on the \"Freaky Friday\" soundtrack, while the video for the song appears on the \"Freaky Friday\" DVD.\n\nThey appear in season 6 episode 9 of Buffy the Vampire Slayer titled \"Smashed\" and perform their song \"Run Away\".\n\nThey also appear on the track \"Play it Loud\" on MxPx's 2003 release \"Before Everything & After\".\n\nSome of their tracks, such as \"Over It\" and \"Anything For You\" appeared on the TV series Joan Of Arcadia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916821", "title": "Tommy Banks", "text": "Tommy Banks\n\nThomas Benjamin Banks, LL.D. (December 17, 1936 – January 25, 2018) was a Canadian pianist, conductor, arranger, composer, television personality and senator.\n\nBanks was the host of nationally - and internationally - syndicated and network television programmes, including “The Tommy Banks Show” (1968-1983), “Somewhere There’s Music”, “What’s My Name”, “ Love and Mr. Smith”, “Celebrity Revue”, “Symphony of a Thousand”, “Tommy Banks Jazz”, etc.\n\nHe provided musical direction for the ceremonies of the XI Commonwealth Games, EXPO ’86, The World University Games, the XV Olympic Winter Games, and for countless television shows. He has produced and/or conducted command performances for Her Majesty the Queen and the Royal Family, and for President Ronald Reagan.\nHe is a member of the A. F. of M., ACTRA, the National Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences (U.S.), the Canadian Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences, and of the Academy of Canadian Cinema & Television.\nBanks made his jazz-playing debut in 1950 in the touring band of saxophonist Don (D. T.) Thompson. Since then, he’s played jazz throughout North America, Western and Central Europe, Japan, and Southeast Asia.\nIn 1983 his quintet became the first jazz band to tour in continental China since the 1949 revolution.\n\nBefore being called to the Senate of Canada, Tommy Banks served as chair of the Music Committee of the Board of Governors of Alberta College; he was founding chairman of the Alberta Foundation for the Performing Arts; chair of the Music Programme at Grant MacEwan; of the Edmonton Concert Hall Foundation; of the Instrumental Jazz Division of MusicFest Canada (North America’s largest music festival organization); of the B. & B. Foundation for the Theatrical & Musical Arts of Alberta; member of the board of the CKUA Radio Network Foundation; Honorary chair of the Alberta Heart Fund; an Honorary member of Cosmopolitan International and of Rotary International (of which he is a Paul Harris Fellow).\n\nOn Century II Records, distributed by Royalty Records.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> JUNO Award winner * JUNO Award nominee\n\n\nSenator Banks was appointed to the Senate by Governor General Adrienne Clarkson at the recommendation of Prime Minister Jean Chrétien in 2000. He represented Alberta, sitting as a Liberal. In the Senate, he served as a member of the Standing Committee on National Finance, of the Special Committee on Illegal Drugs, of the Standing Committee on National Security and Defence (SCONSAD) and on its steering committee, and as chair of the Subcommittee on Veterans’ Affairs. In each of the 37th, 38th, and 39th Parliaments he was elected Chair of the Standing Committee on Energy, the Environment, and Natural Resources. In the 37th and 38th Parliaments he served as Chair of the Alberta Liberal Parliamentary Caucus. Following dissolution of the 37th Parliament Senator Banks was named to an all-party Committee of Parliamentarians from both Houses, given the task of advising the Government on the setting up of parliamentary oversight of security intelligence matters. He served on an ad hoc basis on several additional committees of the Senate. He was vice-chair of the Caucus task force on urban issues that produced Canada's Urban Strategy - a Blueprint for Action which Report led to an important national debate.\n\n\n\nBanks died of leukemia on January 25, 2018, in Edmonton, Alberta.\n\nAs a former senator, Banks was entitled to be styled The Honourable for life.\n\nIn order, these ribbons symbolise Banks': Order of Canada, Alberta Order of Excellence, Queen Elizabeth II Golden Jubilee Medal, 125th Anniversary of the Confederation of Canada Medal, Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal, Alberta Centennial Medal\n\nBanks won the Sir Frederick Haultain Prize, the 1979 Juno Award for Best Jazz Album, the 1992 Gemini Award for Best Performance in a Variety Program (with k.d. Lang, for their performance at the Canadian Country Music Awards). \n\nBanks received an ACTRA Lifetime Achievement Award, as well as an Alberta Recording Industry Award of Distinction and the 2010 SOCAN Special Achievement Award. His wife Ida and he were honorary co-chairs for Northern Alberta of the CKUA Radio Network Capital Campaign, and board members of Wellspring Edmonton.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916828", "title": "Margaret Burton", "text": "Margaret Burton\n\nMargaret Burton may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1916833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916833", "title": "Gustavo Rol", "text": "Gustavo Rol\n\nGustavo Adolfo Rol (20 June 1903 – 22 September 1994) was an Italian thinker and painter. His devotees consider him to have been a great spiritual master and have testified to miraculous feats he supposedly accomplished.\n\nRol was born in Turin, Italy, and graduated in law at the University of Turin, Faculty of Law in 1933. He also studied in London and Paris and began a banking career that took him to other major European cities. While in Marseille during 1925-1926, he encountered a person who showed him some card tricks, triggering an interest in magical and paranormal phenomena. He pursued deeper spiritual studies and had an experience in Paris of which he wrote in his diary: \"I discovered a tremendous law that links the color green, the musical fifth, and heat. I have lost my will to live. I am frightened by power. I shall write no more!\" As a result of this crisis, he briefly retreated to a convent.\n\nUpon returning to Italy, in the 1930s he became known in aristocratic and political circles. Rol engaged in various demonstrations of his supposed mystical powers, including telepathy, clairvoyance, and other psychic or magical feats. He also became a friend, among others, of film directors Federico Fellini and Franco Zeffirelli and writer Dino Buzzati. Toward the later part of his life, and after his death, Rol was a focal point of debate in Italy between skeptics and advocates of parapsychology.\nHis supposed mystical powers were never demonstrated, and he repeatedly refused to be controlled by any illusionist. He was, and then he was not.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916839", "title": "Calhoun Street Bridge", "text": "Calhoun Street Bridge\n\nThe Calhoun Street Toll Supported Bridge (also known as the Trenton City Bridge) is a historic bridge connecting Calhoun Street in Trenton, New Jersey across the Delaware River to East Trenton Avenue in Morrisville, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, United States. It was constructed by the Phoenix Bridge Company of Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, in 1884. The bridge was part of the Lincoln Highway until 1920 (when the highway was moved to the free Lower Trenton Bridge), and was later connected to Brunswick Circle by the Calhoun Street Extension as part of a bypass of downtown Trenton. Prior to 1940, trolleys of the Trenton-Princeton Traction Company, utilized this bridge to cross into Pennsylvania. The bridge is owned by the Delaware River Joint Toll Bridge Commission, and is maintained with tolls from other bridges.\n\nOn May 24, 2010, the bridge completely closed to vehicular and pedestrian traffic to undergo much-needed renovations including truss repair and repainting, deck replacement, and repair of approaches. The rehabilitation project was completed October 8, 2010, and the bridge was rededicated in a ceremony on October 12.\n\nThe bridge helps connect segments of the East Coast Greenway, a trail system connecting Maine to Florida.\n\nCurrently, the bridge is limited to at with a clearance of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916846", "title": "Philip Mirowski", "text": "Philip Mirowski\n\nPhilip Mirowski (born 21 August 1951 in Jackson, Michigan) is a historian and philosopher of economic thought at the University of Notre Dame. He received a PhD in Economics from the University of Michigan in 1979.\n\nIn his 1989 book \"More Heat than Light\", Mirowski reveals a history of how physics has drawn inspiration from economics and how economics has sought to emulate physics, especially with regard to the theory of value. He traces the development of the energy concept in Western physics and its subsequent effect on the invention and promulgation of neoclassical economics, the modern orthodox theory.\n\n\"Machine Dreams\" explores the historical influences of the military and the cyborg sciences on neoclassical economics. The neglected influence of John von Neumann and his theory of automata are key themes throughout the book. Mirowski claims that many of the developments in neoclassical economics in the 20th century, from game theory to computational economics, are the unacknowledged result of von Neumann's plans for economics. The work expands Mirowski's vision for a computational economics, one in which various market types are constructed in a similar fashion to Noam Chomsky's generative grammar. The role of economics is to explore how various market types perform in measures of complexity and efficiency, with more complicated markets being able to incorporate the effects of the less complex. By complexity Mirowski means something analogous to computational complexity theory in computer science.\n\nIn his book \"Never Let a Serious Crisis Go to Waste\", Mirowski concludes that neoliberal thought has become so pervasive that any countervailing evidence serves only to further convince disciples of its ultimate truth. Once neoliberalism became a Theory of Everything, providing a revolutionary account of self, knowledge, information, markets, and government, it could no longer be falsified by anything as trifling as data from the “real” economy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916848", "title": "Central Electricity Board", "text": "Central Electricity Board\n\nThe United Kingdom Central Electricity Board was established by the Electricity (Supply) Act 1926. It had the duty to supply electricity to authorised electricity undertakers, to determine which power stations would be 'selected' stations to generate electricity for the Board, to provide main transmission lines to interconnect selected stations and electricity undertakers, and to standardise generating frequency.\n\nIn 1925 Lord Weir chaired a committee that proposed the creation of the Central Electricity Board (CEB) to link the UK’s most efficient power stations with consumers via a ‘national gridiron’. At that time, the industry consisted of more than 600 electricity supply companies and local authority undertakings, and different areas operated at different voltages and frequencies (including DC in some places). The board's first chairman was Andrew Duncan.\n\nThe CEB established the UK's first synchronised AC grid, running at 132 kilovolts and 50 Hertz, which by 1933 was a collection of local grids, with emergency interlinks, covering most of England. This started operating as a national system, the National Grid, in 1938. \n\nAfter completion of the National Grid the role of the CEB changed from planning and construction to operating and managing the regional grid systems.\n\nThe CEB established laboratories at Croydon and Waddon to undertake research on high voltage transmission problems.\n\nThe CEB coexisted with the Electricity Commissioners, an industry regulator responsible to the Ministry of Transport.\n\nThe CEB ceased to exist when the electricity industry was nationalised by the Electricity Act 1947 and taken over by the British Electricity Authority.\n\nThere were four Chairman of the Central Electricity Board between 1927 and 1948:\n\n\nUpon its establishment in 1927 the Board comprised a full-time Chairman and seven part time members, all appointed by the Minister of Transport. The inaugural part-time members were:\n\n\nUnder the Board were a General Manager, Secretary, Chief Engineer, Commercial Manager and support sections. Some key people were: \n\n\nThe CEB owned one power station. This was at Earley east of Reading (51:27.6899N 0:55.5858W). It was built as a ‘wartime emergency’ power station and  commissioned in December 1942 only 22 months after the start of construction. The station comprised two 40 MW steam driven turbo-alternators, with a third 40 MW set added later. It was operated by Edmundson’s Electricity Corporation until nationalisation in 1948, and was operational until the 1970s . A second wartime emergency power station was Castle Meads owned by the Gloucester Corporation.\n\nThe CEB headquarters was at Trafalgar Buildings, 1 Charing Cross, London SW1. There was also an establishment at Horsley Towers, East Horsley, Surrey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916850", "title": "Hurriganes", "text": "Hurriganes\n\nHurriganes is a Finnish rock band that was formed in the early 1970s. They were very popular in Finland, Sweden and Estonia in the 1970s and early 1980s, as well as a popular live act in Sweden during this time. Their classic line-up consisted of Remu Aaltonen, Albert Järvinen, and Cisse Häkkinen. The misspelling of the name (\"Hurriganes\" with a \"g\") is intentional. Their style of music is very much of a nostalgic, pre-Beatles, roots rock'n'roll orientation. During their \"classic\" period, the band's output consisted largely of revved-up cover versions of well-known 1950s rock 'n' roll songs, in addition to their own original material. In this sense, Hurriganes can be viewed as Finland's answer to British pub rock performers of the 1970s like Dave Edmunds and Dr. Feelgood.\n\nThe founding members were drummer and vocalist Henry \"Remu\" Aaltonen, bassist Hugo Christer \"Cisse\" Häkkinen and guitarist Ilkka \"Ile\" Kallio. Kallio temporarily quit the band in the spring of 1972, being replaced by guitarist Pekka \"Albert\" Järvinen who was part of the band's most famous line-up.\n\nHurriganes was founded in 1971 in Pohjois-Haaga, Helsinki, where a similar rock band Jig-Saw played. Influenced by the name of the North American band Johnny And The Hurricanes, Remu Aaltonen devised the name for his own band. Hurriganes practiced in a garage in Ohjaajantie.\n\nHurriganes' first album \"Rock and Roll All Night Long\" was released in 1973. It included songs such as \"Say Mama\" and \"Keep On Knocking\". The album's A-side was recorded in a concert in Klaukkala, as was the first song of the B-side, but the rest was recorded in the studio. The album became the first gold record album for the record label Love Records.\n\nHurriganes' commercial high point was with the release of \"Roadrunner\" in 1974. The album included the band's most famous song \"Get On\", which won the International European Pop Jury competition. The album also included the songs \"Roadrunner,\" \"It Ain't What You Do\", \"I Will Stay\" and \"The Phone Rang\". \"Roadrunner\" was recorded in Stockholm at Marcus Music Studios, and the album was also mastered in Stockholm. \"Roadrunner\" is still considered one of Finnish rock music's most important albums, and it is Finland's seventh-best-selling album of all time. It was Finland's best-selling album by a Finnish band from 1974 until 1985, when Dingo's \"Kerjäläisten valtakunta\" exceeded the volume of sales. The album's cover art (by Risto Vuorimies) was the only Finnish album cover in a 1977 book \"Album Cover Album\" (Dragons, World Book) which was compiled by Hipgnosis and Roger Dean. The cover's stylish motif was chosen by Hurriganes' bassist Cisse Häkkinen, who owned a light blue 1954 Cadillac Series 62 sedan. The cover shows Remu Aaltonen, Cisse Häkkinen and Albert Järvinen sitting on the back seat of the Cadillac. In 2007, \"Roadrunner\" was re-released as a SACD mixed to a 5.1 format.\n\nJärvinen left the band in the summer of 1975, and Ile Kallio returned to the band after a break of three years. After \"Roadrunner\", the band's popularity was at its highest, and not until the late 1970s did new wave and rockabilly genres succeed in prying Hurriganes from their spot as number one on the Finnish band scene, although in Hurriganes' early career Hullujussi also momentarily stole some acclaim. In the neighboring country of Sweden, the band was a popular live performer well into the 1980s, and broke the concert venue Folkpark's record in audience numbers several times. The same in 1975, when Hurriganes released the album \"Crazy Days\", which reached diamond disc status quickly, but never did beat the \"Roadrunner\" album in terms of sales. \"Crazy Days\" contained one major hit, originally released by Jim & The Beatmakers in 1964: \"My Only One\", which had long been on Hurriganes's concert repertoire, a song sung by Cisse in a bravura performance until the end. The album also covered the Lennon-McCartney composition \"Bad to Me\".\n\nAfter \"Crazy Days\", \"Hot Wheels\"s sound was rawer and heavier than its predecessor. This album differs from its predecessors in that it contains only Remu's and Cisse's names in the writing credits of the band's own songs. Ile also took part in the songwriting but Remu deliberately left his name out of the credits. The album was recorded in Lahti by Pekka Nurmi at Microvox studio, which was a cheap, seedy, and not very classy basement studio. In Sweden, \"Hot Wheels\" was a real breakthrough and is considered at least equal in importance to \"Roadrunner\". Familiar songs from the album, such as the title track, \"Hot Wheels\", was heard in 1976-produced, low-budget film \"Hot Guys, Hot Wheels\". The film does not have any particular plot, but it portrays a boy and a girl who end up on a date at a Hurriganes concert. It also shows Remu, Cisse and Ile jamming and spending their free time, including playing football. The movie was directed by Jussi Itkonen, and it aptly describes life in the 1970s. Hurriganes members played themselves in the movie.\n\nHurriganes recorded the album \"Tsugu Way\" (1977) in Love Records' brand new studio, and there were some technical problems, but the content was familiar Hurriganes with some covers, like the Beatles' \"Hold Me Tight\". The album was released in Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands with the name of \"Use No Hooks\". The album sold well enough to become a Gold Record easily, even though the record sales were generally down in Finland due to a recession.\n\nIn November 1977, Hurriganes' Swedish Sonet label arranged a small tour for the band in London. It was also agreed that next summer they would play 30 gigs in Europe as Status Quo's opening act. Hurriganes failed to conquer London, however, and also the Quo gigs were canceled when Remu and Cisse quit the tour and went back to Finland. The reason was apparently the fact that the band was unknown in England, and the tour arrangements and the reception reflected that. For example, they were not headlining their most important gigs. Remu states, \"I fucked up to the whole system so we went away\".\n\nFor the time being, Ile Kallio's last Hurriganes album was \"Hanger\", where the drummer Beaver Aittojärvi-Oja performed, and keyboardist Jim Pembroke. Remu's back problems prevented him from playing, and the short-lived five piece Hurriganes went on tour to Sweden, but the reception was a little contradictory. The drummer in the concerts was Tomi Parkkonen.\n\nAfter the band had failed to find success in Britain in 1977, Ile Kallio began to lose interest and eventually was replaced by Albert Järvinen in early 1979. Kallio's last recording with the band was the single \"Shorai Shorai\" which was not published until after Kallio's departure from the band.\n\nJärvinen's second stint with the band lasted two albums – \"Jailbird\" (1979) and \"10/80\" (1980), the latter of which was a major critical and commercial success, and included the song \"Bourbon Street\". The album was recorded in Stockholm, ABBA's Polar studios, and it was produced by Pave Maijanen. The album's first track \"Made in Sweden\", which Järvinen and Aaltonen's earlier band Kalevala had already played, and the last song \"Just For You\" are unusual for Hurriganes instrumentals.\n\nJärvinen was dropped from the band in September 1981, due to alcohol-related unreliability. He was replaced by the renowned studio musician Janne Louhivuori. Louhivuori played on two Hurriganes albums – 1981's \"Fortissimo\", and the following year's \"Rockin' Hurriganes\". Both albums sold quite well, and Hurriganes continued to be a big concert draw.\n\nLouhivuori left the band in the summer of 1983, and his replacement was Ile Kallio, who played on the band's last studio recordings, the album \"Seven Days, Seven Nights\" (1983) and the mini-album \"Hurrygames\" (1984). The latter was accompanied by a video release with the same name. The band broke up soon after that.\n\nHurriganes reunited in 1988 with the lineup of Aaltonen, Häkkinen and Järvinen, and the band played a series of live shows in the summer. After only a few concerts, however, Järvinen was replaced once again by Janne Louhivuori, who played guitar on the remaining shows. The last concerts were recorded, and the live album \"Live at Metropol\" was released. The band broke up after the live album had been compiled.\n\nBassist Cisse Häkkinen died of alcohol-related illnesses on Boxing Day in 1990. In March of the following year, guitarist Albert Järvinen died of heart failure in London. After their deaths, Remu Aaltonen has continued to play Hurriganes' music with many leading Finnish musicians.\n\nIn 1996, the band released a live album \"Live In Stockholm 1977\". The concert had been recorded on a cassette tape which guitarist Ile Kallio found years later during a move. The album quickly became a gold album in Finland. It had been recorded in the band's Swedish breakthrough concert in theater Jarla. Two concerts were held that night, because the first one had sold out right away.\n\nRemu Aaltonen re-introduced the Hurriganes name in 1998 as Remu & Hurriganes. Old members (Ile Kallio, Janne Louhivuori) weren't part of the new line-up, and instead two new members joined the band. They were Harry Merilahti (bass and vocals), and his son, Rocka Merilahti (guitar). In 2001 the trio released an album called \"30th Anniversary\", which included new versions of old hits and one new song. The composition of the band changed many times, and its members included guitarist Jukka Orma, bassist Mikko Löytty, guitarist Nipa Niilola, guitarist Juho Pitkänen, and bassist Hike Kärppä, among others.\n\nIn 2007, the biopic \"Ganes\" was released. It was directed by JP Siili. Remu Aaltonen was involved in the making of the film.\n\nHurriganes gained fame from the beginning of a wild and energetic stage presence, of a kind not previously experienced in Finland. The band's music was straightforward rock and roll. The band's repertoire included a number of versions of originality in 1950 – and the 1960s rock classics, including Little Richard's \"Slippin' and Slidin'\" and Bo Diddley's \"Roadrunner\". Stage presence, dress like a playing, everything came full force and enthusiasm. Remu Aaltonen, who replied Cisse Häkkinen style, and made him a 1950s rocker style, sitting in full. Hurriganes members of the popular clothing included: Beavers-brand jeans and denim jackets, leather jackets and boots.\n\nHurriganes is considered to be the first Finnish rock band who also gained commercial success overseas. Many of the later Finnish rock bands acknowledge Hurriganes as Finland's great pioneer in the genre. These include, for example, Hanoi Rocks. Hanoi Rocks guitarist Andy McCoy has said that the 1970s and 1980s had only two real Finnish rock bands: Hurriganes and Hanoi Rocks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916852", "title": "Punalur", "text": "Punalur\n\nPunalur is the largest hill City in the Indian state of Kerala. It is the headquarter of Punalur Taluk and Punalur Revenue Division. It's situated in the eastern part of Kollam district of the southern Indian state of Kerala, on the banks of the Kallada River and foothills of the western ghats. It is about north-east of Kollam and north of Thiruvananthapuram.Punalur is also Known as Mini Pamba and Gateway of Sabarimala .\n\nIt is the second largest City in Kollam District after Kollam and is also one of the biggest and oldest Municipal towns in Kerala, home to a paper industry with the Punalur Paper Mills, established in the 1850s, one of the first industries in Kerala and a pioneer in the industrial revolution of the state. Punalur is also known as the \"Pepper City of Kerala\". Punalur became an important trading and transport centre between Kollam and Tirunelveli (Tamil Nadu) under the rule of the Travancore Kingdom. Steady progress by the Punalur Panchayat administration saw an upgrade to municipality status in 1971 April 1.\n\nIt is believed that Punalur derived its name by the word 'Punal' (river in old Tamil and Malayalam as in \"kuruthipunal=river of blood\" according to Dr. Hermann Gundert), and \"Ooru\" (place), referring to the river passing through the City.\n\nPunalur is a Municipal town on a mountain path which had good relations with Tamil Nadu to the East from time unknown. Most parts of Punalur taluk were inhabited before the Indus Valley Civilization. Human civilizations existed in Punalur during the Mesolithic period, mainly around Thenmalai (known as Shenduruny). Punalur is described in inscriptions of Mithranandpuram and Vellayani. Until 1734, Punalur was under the direct rule of the Ilaydathu Swaroopam. Later it was annexed by Marthanda Varma and came under the rule of Travancore. The British Raj established a good hold over this part of India due to its rich agricultural resources.\n\nHistorically, Shenduruny has a rich heritage. A recent study conducted by Dr. P. Rajendran], archaeological research associate of the Poona Deccan College, has resulted in the excavation of the remains of Stone Age culture from a large cave situated at the north western part of the Shenduruny (Kallada) River. It was proved that these remains belong to the Mesolithic period. This study brought out the fact that the Shenduruny River Valley Civilization was one of the oldest river valley civilizations in India. It dates to between 5210 and 4420 BC, making it older than the Indus Valley Civilization which is believed to have flourished from 4400 to 3700 BC. Cave paintings seen here are comparable to the Mesolithic paintings found in the caves of central India. The cave found here is large enough to hold at least twenty people at a time. According to Dr. Rajendran, the marshy place seen below just in front of the cave once must have been a lake. Now the Shenduruny River has the reputation that it had nourished a civilization in the prehistoric past.\n\nPunalur also served as a pivot point in the rise of the independence movement and against the rule of Diwan. Many meetings were centered on Punalur due to its close proximity to Tamil Nadu. Many important decisions on planning and attacking Tirunelveli collector were taken in Punalur.\n\nThe Taluk headquarters was shifted from Pathanapuram to Punalur, after an attack at Pathanapuram in 1880. This helped aid the growth of Punalur. Later the flow of goods to and from Tamil Nadu started traveling through Punalur. Punalur is the first settlement after the Western ghats. The opening of the Punalur Suspension Bridge increased the importance of Punalur as a centre of trade between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Later the rail route between Kollam and Thiruchendur made the town more prosperous.\n\nPunalur Paper Mills, the first of its kind in Kerala, served both as an economic centre as well as a source of jobs. The Punalur paper mill employees' union was one of the first organised employee unions in the state of Kerala itself. The workers of Punalur paper mill actively participated in movements including freedom fight and the riot against Diwan rule. Later the Travancore plywood industry added to Punalur's importance in the industrial field. Punalur Market (formerly Sri Ramapuram market) is one of the largest vegetable/agro-products markets in Kerala.\n\nThe cultural history of Punalur reflects in the work of traditional and modern artists and performing groups of music, drama, cinema, etc., especially acclaimed contributions of Punalur N. Rajagopalan Nair, Punalur Balan and Lalithambika Antharjanam in theatre and Malayalam literature.\n\nPunalur has an average elevation of . Many tourists have visited scenic spots along the Kallada River. The Palaruvi Falls is from Punalur. The first planned eco-tourism project in Kerala is only from Punalur on NH 744 towards Sengottai.\n\nPunalur Assembly constituency is part of the Kollam (Lok Sabha constituency). K. Raju who is the current Minister For Forestry and Animal Husbandry is MLA of Punalur assembly constituency. N. K. Premachandran is MP of Kollam (Lok Sabha constituency).\n\nPunalur Municipality was formed on 1 April 1971, with an area of 34.06 square kilometres. Currently, Punalur is a Grade-II municipality and divided into 35 electoral wards. Punalur is the largest municipality in Kollam District. \n\nPunalur is one of the two Revenue Divisions (RDO) of Kollam district and another being Kollam itself. Punalur Revenue divisional office was formed on Keralapiravi day 1 November 2018. It's headed by RDO/Sub Collector. Punalur RDO headquarters is situated at PWD complex, TB Jn. Punalur Revenue division is administratively divided into three Taluks: Punalur, Kottarakkara and Pathanapuram, each of which is subdivided into 50 villages. Punalur is the headquarters of the Punalur Taluk and is one of the major and largest Taluks in Kollam District. This Taluk comprises 15 villages.\n\nPunalur is the Sub-divisional headquarters of the Kollam Rural Police. It's headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police/Assistant Superintendent of Police. Office of the Circle Inspector of Police, Police Control Room & Highway Police base Station are also functioning in Punalur. Punalur Railway Police Station is the one & only Railway Police Station in Kollam Rural District. A proposal for one Traffic Police Station at Punalur, waiting for Govt. decision.\n\nCourt complex under construction in Punalur may open soon. Functioning houses in Punalur are M.A.C.T, Sub Court, Munsif Court, JFMC-1, JFMC- 2 (Forest offences), JFMC-3 and Sub-divisional Magistrate Court. Government of Kerala sanctioned one Family Court and Pocso Court for Punalur, may open soon.\n\nPunalur has a Divisional Forest Office, it's headed by DFO. Timber Sales Divisional Forest Office (DFO-Timber Sales) and Forest Flying Squad Office also functions at Punalur. \n\nOther important Government offices functioning in Punalur includes Sub-Regional Transport Office, Excise Circle and Range Offices, Fire & Rescue Office, District Educational Office, District Tribal Office, KSEB divisional Office, Telecom divisional Office, KWA Sub-divisional office, NH Sub-divisional Office, PWD Sub-division Office, Sub-Treasury, Sub-Registrar Office, Employment Exchange, LIC Regional Office, Rubber Board Regional Office, Taluk Supply Office, Taluk Statistical Office, Legal Metrology Office, SC/ST Addl. Commissioner Office, Labor Office, Devaswam Board Assistant Commissioner Office, Food Safety Circle Office etc. Most of the Government Offices are functioned in Civil station at Kachery Road, Punalur.\n\nPunalur taluk hospital is considered to be one of the best Hospital in public sector healthcare in India with ultra-modern facilities. Now, it is the biggest Govt. Taluk Hospital in Kerala with 12 Floors. A proposal for this Hospital to upgraded as a General Hospital/District Specialty Hospital. The Punalur Taluk Hospital that has set a benchmark in public sector healthcare to get a new hi-tech building under Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The building will have 32 outpatient units functioning at the same time, which is first of its kind in a taluk hospital. INKEL will construct the 12-storey Rs 68-crore building having a total area of 2,00,000 sq feet under ‘Aardram’ mission. The new facility will have 500 beds for inpatients, 94 ICU beds and seven lifts. \"The hospital will compete with any of the corporate hospitals in the state, with 32 doctors available at a time attend outpatients in the new building.\" The hospital had bagged awards from Kerala State Pollution Control Board for the last six consecutive years of which three are excellence awards. The hospital already has employed 40 advanced cosmetology procedures including skin platelet-rich plasma administration, follicle transplantation, squint correction, and dental jewellery. The programme ‘Beside you – birth companion scheme’ permits husband or female relative of pregnant women to be present in the labour room at the time of delivery. \n\nThe hospital is also the first to employ a painless delivery facility in a public sector hospital in the state. The hospital has centralised systems for air, oxygen, and suction in all beds, probably the lone facility in public health centres. Dialysis and cancer care services are free. Palliative care also functions at the hospital, which receives over 2,000 outpatients per day a number a private hospital under normal circumstances used to have.\n\nGovernment Regional Cancer Center, ESI Hospital, Government Taluk Ayurvedha and Homeo Hospitals functioning in Punalur. Major private Hospitals also functioning in Punalur.\n\nEven though it is located near the Western Ghats, Punalur is the hottest place in Kerala, and during summer temperatures as high as have been recorded. One of Kerala's weather stations in Punalur and Chittur, Palakkad had a long reputation of being the hottest places in Kerala, but Punalur broke all heat records in 2007 and 2009. The summers of 2007 and 2009 were the hottest when the maximum temperature hovered around for many days. Punalur also holds the record for the coldest temperature ever recorded in lowland/midland regions of Kerala; with on 8 January 1968. Minimum temperatures in January–February on a cloudless day can be as low as and maximum in March–April can be as high as . Because of this, Punalur is also known as \"The Hot City Of Kerala\".\n\nThe Punalur Suspension Bridge is the oldest motorable bridge in Kerala, which was built by the British on AD 1877 and is now a historical attraction.It is also known as \"London Bridge Of Kerala\". The bridge has a length of 400 feet. The suspension bridge was built to prevent wild animals from crossing into the town from the forest area of old Kattupathanapuram. It is the symbol of Punalur now. It is added to Kerala Tourism Circuit recently. Punalur is also known as the \" Hanging bridge City Of Kerala \"\n\nKollam – Thirumangalam Road (NH-744) passes through Punalur, connects the City to Tamil Nadu and other parts of districts. The Main Eastern Highway, which is Punalur-Pathanamthitta-Thodupuzha-Muvattupuzha Road / SH – 08 starts from Punalur. SH-48 (Punalur-Ayoor Road) is connected to the state capital of Trivandrum from Punalur. SH -5 (Punalur/Pathanapuram-Kayamkulam road ) connects to Cochin from the city and the largest state highway (SH-59: Hill Highway) in Kerala state is also passes through this city.\nCommutation in this hilly city is mainly dependent on state run KSRTC, SETC and private bus services.\n\nPunalur Sub-Regional Transport Office is situated at Nellippaly Jn, Punalur, KL-25 is the vehicle registration code for Punalur Taluk. Punalur KSRTC Depot is one of the major and oldest KSRTC depot in Kerala. Punalur KSRTC depot yard renovation work under progress, once it's completed Punalur become one of the biggest KSRTC Depot yard in Kerala, may expected to finish the works soon. It is well connected to the capital city of Kerala Thiruvananthapuram, and the district headquarters of Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Wayanad etc. During the Sabarimala season,Punalur KSRTC Depot operates Pamba and Erumely special services from Punalur Railway station-Punalur bus stand -towards Pathanamthitta-Pamba.It is the most helpful for many devotees to reach their Sabarimala.Punalur private bus stand is one of the largest Private bustands in Kerala. Private bus services well connected by Kollam, Thiruvanathapuram, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki and Ernakulam Districts. KSRTC and SETC Interstate services to towns in Tamil Nadu like Sengottai, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Madurai, Trichi, Chennai, Velankanni, Salem and Hosur. KSRTC ply town to town and Fast Passenger services in Punalur mainly through Main Eastern Highway linking Punalur to Pathanamthitta, Ranni, Erumely, Kanjirappally, Ponkunnam, Palai, Mundakayam, Kattappana, Kumily, Thodupuzha, Muvattupuzha, Kottayam and many more towns in high ranges of Kerala. Plenty of A/C Luxury Bus services are operated from Punalur to Bangalore, Chennai, Madurai, Pondicherry and Coimbatore on a daily basis. Many other services are also operated by KSRTC to interior villages like Mathra, Achenkovil, Rosemala, Tenmala, Aryankavu, Pattazhy, Thalachira and Kokkadu.\n\nPunalur railway station is The second largest Railway station in Kollam District, a major transit point and a main destination Railway Station in Kerala located on the Kollam – Sengottai railway line. It is also Known as the Gateway of Sabarimala.Station Manager's office, Railway Protection Force (RPF) Station, Assistant divisional Electrical Engineer's Office, Southern Railway Sectional Engineer office and Track Machine Maintenance section also functioning in Punalur Railway Station. The construction of the meter gauge rail route between Kollam – Punalur and Punalur – Sengottai (Ghats Section) along the scenic mountain terrain was started in 1873 by the British engineers and was completed in 1902. Travancore rulers in association with the British prepared the plan for the track through the challenging mountain terrain as it involved the construction of long arch bridges over steep valleys and tunnels across the rocky mountains of Western Ghats.\n\nThe first goods train travelled on this route in 1902 and a train carrying its first passengers began its run in 1904. It makes for a thrilling train journey as it passes over five big bridges and hundreds of tiny ones while negotiating mountain streams and valleys. Passengers are also treated to a breath-taking view of the Western Ghats. The train also passes through five tunnels on this stretch, including the one-kilometre-long tunnel between Bhagawathipuram and Arayankavu. The station at Punalur is equipped with the locomotive service centre, parcel and timber depot, train parking bays, storage tanks for water and oil, etc. This route is in the process of up-gradation to broad-gauge and the first part of conversion finished between Kollam and Punalur. The second part of conversion work on Punalur-Sengottai ghat section also finished and starts passenger and goods services. Now this will serve as the shortest rail-route from Kochi port to Tuticorin port. The infrastructure of the station will be changed as proposed in tune with handling demands and historical accuracy.\n\nThe Punalur Railway Station currently connects to Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram, Chengannur, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad Junction, Nagarcoil, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Madurai, Thiruchirappally, Chennai and Velankanni. The station handles six express train services to Velankanni, Chennai Egmore, Ernakulam, Kollam Junction, Thirunelveli, Palakkad Junction and eight passenger train services, of which four services ply to Kollam Junction, another four services ply to Sengottai, Madurai Junction, Guruvayur and Kanyakumari.\n\nThe main agricultural products of this City include rubber, black pepper, and other spices. Punalur Sreeramavarmapuram Market is one of the largest vegetable market in Kerala. The chief commodities of export here are the hill products: pineapple, pepper products, plywood and timber. The Punalur Paper Mill Ltd., a paper industry established in 1888 by a German national, was closed in 1987 due to labour disputes. Various attempts to resolve the issues over two decades failed to produce any result but finally reached a legal settlement in February 2011 between the new management and the State Government. It is in the process of running by the newly formed management. A major share of PPM is owned by Akhula Industries, Hyderabad.\n\nThe Punalur economy was at its height during the time of Punalur Paper Mill. However, other industries like Agro-Fruit, State Farming Corporation, Rehabilitation Plantations, RPC Kraft Paper, plywood industry, etc. still provide a significant contribution to Kerala. The Punalur market is also assisted by the agricultural industries.\n\n India census, Punalur had a population of 66,702. Males constitute 49% of the population and females 51%. Punalur has an average literacy rate of 84%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 85%, and female literacy is 82%. In Punalur, 10% of the population is under 6 years of age. Sree Bharanikavu Devi Temple is a Hindu temple located here.\n\n\n\n\nPunalur has numerous government, aided and unaided schools. Starting from the first school, St. John's L. P. School popular as 'Roma School' opened in thatched sheds in the St. Mary's Church campus during the late 19th century, The Government Higher Secondary School in Punalur and the Taluk Samjam schools were established in the early 20th century. Later the Taluk Samajam schools were split into boys HSS, girls HS, and the Chemmanthoor HS. Another educational institution was established in the St. Mary's Church Campus namely, St. Goretti H.S.S.In the outskirts of the city. SNDP had established an institution namely SN Trust H.S.S among unaided schools, the notable institutions are Sabarigiri, St. Thomas, Toch, Fathima, Oxford. From play school to higher secondary classes are available in these institutions. Sree Thyagaraja school of music and dance is an institution working in punalur since 1901.\n\n\n\n\nPunalur is one of the main cinema releasing centres in Kerala. There are 12 movie theatres in total in the city. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916861", "title": "Bergerocactus", "text": "Bergerocactus\n\nBergerocactus emoryi (golden cereus, golden-spined cereus, golden snakecactus) is a species of cactus. It is the sole member of the genus Bergerocactus, named after Alwin Berger. The plant is also known as snake cactus, though this latter name also applies to \"Echinocereus pensilis\".\n\nThis cactus is frail, appears in clusters, and has up to 20 ribs and ramifications. It is rarely taller than 1 m, and its diameter is usually less than 5 cm. Flowers are yellow and appear near the plant's apex, reaching 2 cm in length and diameter. They are tunnel-shaped.\n\nThis plant is native to coastal southern California and Baja California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916867", "title": "Paul Drude", "text": "Paul Drude\n\nPaul Karl Ludwig Drude (; 12 July 1863 – 5 July 1906) was a German physicist specializing in optics. He wrote a fundamental textbook integrating optics with Maxwell's theories of electromagnetism.\n\nBorn into a Jewish family, the son of a physician in Braunschweig, Drude began his studies in mathematics at the University of Göttingen, but later changed his major to physics. His dissertation covering the reflection and diffraction of light in crystals was completed in 1887, under Woldemar Voigt.\n\nIn 1894 Drude became an extraordinarius professor at the University of Leipzig; in the same year he married Emilie Regelsberger, daughter of a Göttingen lawyer. They had four children. In 1900, he became the editor for the scientific journal \"Annalen der Physik\", the most respected physics journal at that time. From 1901-1905, he was ordinarius professor of physics at Giessen University. In 1905 he became the director of the physics institute of the University of Berlin. In 1906, at the height of his career, he became a member of the Prussian Academy of Sciences. A few days after his inauguration lecture, for inexplicable reasons, he committed suicide. Drude was survived by his wife and four children.\n\nDrude graduated the year Heinrich Hertz began publishing his findings from his experiments on the electromagnetic theories of James Clerk Maxwell. Thus Drude began his professional career at the time Maxwell's theories were being introduced into Germany. His first experiments were the determination of the optical constants of various solids, measured to unprecedented levels of accuracy. He then worked to derive relationships between the optical and electrical constants and the physical structure of substances. In 1894 he was responsible for introducing the symbol \"\"c\"\" for the speed of light in a perfect vacuum.\n\nToward the end of his tenure at Leipzig, Drude was invited to write a textbook on optics, which he accepted. The book, \"Lehrbuch der Optik\", published in 1900, brought together the formerly distinct subjects of electricity and optics, which was cited by Drude as an “epoch-making advance in natural science.”\n\nIn 1900 he developed a powerful model to explain the thermal, electrical, and optical properties of matter. The Drude model would be further advanced in 1933 by Arnold Sommerfeld and Hans Bethe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916875", "title": "Diocese of Canterbury", "text": "Diocese of Canterbury\n\nThe Diocese of Canterbury is a Church of England diocese covering eastern Kent which was founded by St. Augustine of Canterbury in 597. The diocese is centred on Canterbury Cathedral and is the oldest see of the Church of England.\n\nThe \"Report of the Commissioners appointed by his Majesty to inquire into the Ecclesiatical Revenues of England and Wales\" (1835) noted the net annual revenue for the Canterbury see was £19,182. This made it the wealthiest diocese in England.\n\nThe diocesan bishop is the Archbishop of Canterbury, presently Justin Welby. However, because of his roles as metropolitan bishop of the Province of Canterbury, Primate of All England and \"first bishop\" of the worldwide Anglican Communion, the archbishop (whose primary residence is at Lambeth Palace in London) is often away from the diocese. Therefore, his suffragan bishop, the Bishop of Dover (presently Rose Hudson-Wilkin), is in many ways empowered to act almost as if she were the diocesan bishop.\n\nThe province had from 1944–2009 a second locally focussed suffragan bishop, the Bishop of Maidstone, discontinued November 2010. Three suffragans have nominal sees in the diocese — the Bishops of Ebbsfleet, Richborough and (since 2014) Maidstone who are provincial episcopal visitors with a wider focus than the diocese.\n\nBesides the Archbishop and the Bishop of Dover, three honorary assistant bishops supervise and officiate. Alternative episcopal oversight (for parishes in the diocese who reject the ministry of priests who are women) is provided by the provincial episcopal visitor (PEV), the Bishop suffragan of Richborough, Norman Banks. There are three honorary assistant bishops licensed in the diocese:\n\nFor organisational purposes, the diocese is divided into three archdeaconries, containing a total of fifteen deaneries:\n\n"}
{"id": "1916891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916891", "title": "Libertad", "text": "Libertad\n\nLibertad, the Spanish word for \"freedom\", may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916910", "title": "Michel Benoist", "text": "Michel Benoist\n\nMichel Benoist (, October 8, 1715 in Dijon, France – October 23, 1774 in Beijing, China) was a Jesuit scientist who served for thirty years in the court of the Qianlong Emperor (1735 - 1796) during the Qing Dynasty, known for his architectural and landscape designs of the Old Summer Palace (Yuanming Yuan). Along with Giuseppe Castiglione, Benoist served as one of two Jesuit advisors to the Qianlong Emperor, and transformed parts of the Old Summer Palace into what historian Mark Elliott calls an \"imitation of Versailles or Fontainebleu.\"\n\nMichel Benoist was born on October 8, 1715 in Dijon, France. The name Benoist is an archaic form of the name \"Benoît,\" and both are used interchangeably in textual sources. Benoist studied in Dijon and at Saint Sulpice, Paris. He entered the Jesuit Novitiate at Nancy on March 18, 1737, and was formally ordained as a Jesuit priest in Trier in 1739. Before he went to China as a missionary in 1744, he completed astronomical studies in Paris.\n\nDuring the second year of his reign in 1737, the Qianlong Emperor commissioned Giuseppe Castiglione to construct multiple European-style pavilions on the grounds of the Old Summer Palace. Michel Benoist oversaw the construction of Castiglione’s designs, taking over construction following Castiglione's death in 1766, and helped design multiple parts of the palace. In particular, he designed several large fountains, including a \"water clock\" in front of the Hall of National Peace. This clock consisted of a fountain basin surrounded by 12 statues depicting the animals of the Chinese zodiac each of which was associated with one of the 12 Chinese hours by the Earthly Branches System. Each of the statues would successively spew water for the duration of the hour it represented. \n\nBenoist also produced a large world map and a map of the Chinese empire and neighboring territories on the walls of Yuanming Yuan. The map helped familiarize the Qianlong Emperor with the geography of Europe, and according to historian Mark Elliott prepared the Emperor for the later arrival of the Macartney Embassy in 1793.\n\nBenoist also conducted astronomical studies and showed the emperor how to use a telescope. He set up a printing shop which produced prints from a set of copper engravings showing the battles of the emperor, which had been received as a gift of king Louis XV of France. Several literary works are attributed to him, including a translation of \"The Imitation of Christ\" into Chinese.\n\nMichel Benoist died in Beijing, China on October 23, 1774, of a stroke. He was 59 years old. His body was interred at the Zhengfusi cemetery on the outskirts a Beijing. In his honor, the Qianlong Emperor funded his funeral with \"one hundred pieces of silver.\" Zhengfusi was one of two cemeteries dedicated to Jesuits in service in China. The first, Zhalan, was a cemetery built in 1611 that interned Jesuits such as Matteo Ricci, while Zhengfusi was built in 1732 for the French Jesuit community. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916916", "title": "Term of patent in the United States", "text": "Term of patent in the United States\n\nIn the United States, under current patent law, the term of patent, provided that maintenance fees are paid on time, is 20 years from the filing date of the earliest U.S. or international (PCT) application to which priority is claimed (excluding provisional applications).\n\nThe patent term in the United States was changed in 1995 to bring U.S. patent law into conformity with the World Trade Organization's Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) as negotiated in the Uruguay Round. As a side effect, it is no longer possible to maintain submarine patents in the U.S., since the patent term now depends on the priority date, not the issue date.\n\nDesign patents have a shorter term than utility patents. Design patents filed on or after May 13, 2015 have a term of 15 years from issuance. Design patents filed prior to May 13, 2015 have a term of 14 years from issuance.\n\nThe original patent term under the 1790 Patent Act was decided individually for each patent, but \"not exceeding fourteen years\". The 1836 Patent Act (5 Stat. 117, 119, 5) provided (in addition to the fourteen-year term) an extension \"for the term of seven years from and after the expiration of the first term\" in certain circumstances. In 1861 the seven-year extension was eliminated and the term changed to seventeen years (, 248). The signing of the 1994 Uruguay Round Agreements Act then changed the patent term from seventeen years from the date of issue to the current twenty years from the earliest filing date.\n\nIf the United States Patent and Trademark Office fails to examine a patent application in time (deadlines for various steps are different), the patent term may be extended. Extensions or other delay taken by the applicant can reduce or eliminate the extension.\n\nThis extension is known as a Patent term adjustment (PTA). Its intention is to accommodate for delays caused by the US patent office during the Prosecution of a US patent application. The total PTA is an addition to the 20-year lifespan of a US patent. The delays are broadly classified into 4 types:\n\n\nCalculation:\n\nThe Patent Cooperation Treaty provides a process for a patent filing to claim the priority date of an earlier foreign patent application. Within one year of filing a patent application in one country, an international patent application (which \"designates\" certain other countries, by default all contracting states) can be made. This holds the original priority date and starts the 20-year validity clock, while allowing the actual patent application in the designated countries (and the associated expenses) to be deferred an additional 20 months. Such a patent would expire earlier than 20 years after U.S. filing.\n\nEven if the scope of a patent is narrowed, neither reissue nor reexamination changes the original expiration date. A reissued or reexamined patent expires on the day the original granted patent would have ordinarily expired. Example: The validity of a patent (filing: January 1, 2000; issue: January 1, 2002; end: January 1, 2020) is challenged. The USPTO issues a Certificate of Reexamination on January 1, 2004. The reexamined patent is in force until January 1, 2020, assuming payment of all maintenance fees.\n\nA terminal disclaimer is a process by which a patent's term is shortened because it duplicates the claims of another patent which expires sooner. If any claim of a pending patent application would have been obvious in light of at least one claim of the applicant's issued patents, the USPTO may reject that claim for obviousness-type double patenting and require the applicant to disclaim a part of the term of the pending application. For example, an applicant's patent A expires on December 24, 2000. The applicant filed another patent application two years later. Under some conditions, the second patent might expire later than the first (based upon the respective earliest claimed priority dates). If the applicant is required to file, and does file, a terminal disclaimer in the later filed patent, then the later filed patent will expire at the same time as the earlier filed patent, the extra term having been disclaimed (\"terminal disclaimer\"). In filing the terminal disclaimer, the later filed patent and the earlier filed patent must be, and remain, commonly owned. In the case of co-pending applications, either or both of the applications may have claims rejected for obviousness-type double patenting, and a terminal disclaimer may be required in either or both, in which case the earlier expiration date will control.\n\nAfter the Uruguay Round Agreements Act of 1994 (URAA), some patents with terminal disclaimers were eligible for a term adjustment because their referenced patents received a term adjustment under the URAA. Patents whose parents received extensions were eligible to file to receive a similar extension, because the claims they depended on were still protected. This has been discussed in the \"Manual of Patent Examining Procedure\".\n\nA terminal disclaimer does not negate Patent Term Extension that has been granted under 35 U.S.C. 156.\nIn a pharmaceutical patent dispute, Teva argued that Wyeth’s patent on zaleplon drug products (Sonata) had expired because of a terminal disclaimer. Wyeth (and its exclusive licensee King) argued that patent’s term was ongoing because of a Patent Term Extension due to FDA regulatory review delay. Under 35 U.S.C. 156(a), the term of a patent \"shall be extended\" after a series of provisions are satisfied. The district court found the language of the statute unambiguous and gives the court \"no discretion\".\n\nThus, if the enumerated conditions are satisfied, the patentee is entitled to a term extension calculated pursuant to Section 156. Teva's motion to dismiss was consequently denied because \"a terminally disclaimed patent is eligible for extension under [Section] 156.\" The case is interesting because the patentee in the first instance had expressly disclaimed term subsequent to 2003 to get the patent granted. However, the holding of this case does not apply to Patent Term Adjustment granted under 35 U.S.C. 154. Such term adjustments will be subject to any terminal disclaimer that has been filed.\n\nThere is now a similar case wherein a company was given extension under S.156 and the generic entrant arguing against such extension between Merck and Hi-tech for a drug called \"dorzolamide\" (TRUSOPT/COSOPT). Here too, the first company (Merck) had filed a standard form terminal disclaimer. This patent was later given an extension and became the crux of the litigation.\n\nThe Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act (Hatch-Waxman Act) of 1984 provides patent holders on approved patented products with an extended term of protection under the patent to compensate for the delay in obtaining Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval.\n\n\"Merck & Co., Inc. v. Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc.\" ruled that patents extended under Hatch-Waxman are still eligible to URAA term extension. However, patents in force on June 8, 1995 solely because of the Hatch-Waxman term adjustment are not eligible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916917", "title": "Jon Lee (actor)", "text": "Jon Lee (actor)\n\nJonathan Lee (born 26 April 1982) is an English actor and singer. Lee is best known as a member of pop group S Club 7, which disbanded in April 2003, and of whom he was the youngest member. The group also starred in a number of their own TV sitcoms, playing themselves. Since the band split, Lee has carved out a successful career in musical theatre, taking on lead roles in a number of productions including the West End shows \"Les Misérables\" and \"Jersey Boys\".\n\nAt the age of 13, Lee played the leading role in the West End production of \"Oliver!\" at the London Palladium Theatre, alongside Jonathan Pryce, and later George Layton, as Fagin. In 1997, Lee played the role of Julian in the premiere of \"Famous Five Smuggler's Gold\" the musical.\n\nLee was a member of pop group S Club 7, who rose to fame by starring in their own BBC television series, \"Miami 7\", in 1999. Over the five years they were together, they had four UK No.1 singles, one UK No.1 album, and a string of hits throughout Europe, including a top-ten single in the United States, Asia, Latin America and Africa. They recorded a total of four studio albums, released eleven singles and went on to sell over fourteen million albums worldwide. Their first album, \"S Club\", had a strong 1990s pop sound, similar to many artists of the time. Through the course of their career, however, their musical approach changed to a more dance and R&B sound which is heard most notably in their final album, \"Seeing Double\". S Club 7 won two Brit Awards — in 2000 for British breakthrough act and in 2002 for best British single. In 2001 the group earned the Record of the Year award. Group member Paul Cattermole departed the group in 2002, and the group changed its name from S Club 7 to simply S Club. On 21 April 2003, during a live onstage performance, S Club announced that they were to disband.\n\nIn 2004 Lee played the role of Marius in \"Les Misérables\" at the Palace Theatre in London, and continued the role following the show's move to the smaller Queen's Theatre. In 2005 Lee toured the UK with the new musical, \"Love Shack\", featuring disco classics and hit dance songs from the charts, starring alongside Steps' Faye Tozer and Hear'Say's Noel Sullivan. In August 2006 Lee starred in The Heather Brothers' production of \"Teen Scream\" at the Assembly Rooms at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. He returned to the London stage in 2010 in the musical \"Tomorrow Morning\". Lee worked on a number of other musical projects before returning to the stage, and also starred in BBC's \"The Sound of Musicals\". In 2008 he recorded a song for the CD \"Act One – Songs From The Musicals Of Alexander S. Bermange\", an album of 20 new recordings by 26 West End stars. It was released in November 2008 on Dress Circle Records.\n\nIn 2008 Lee voiced the part of good-looking, bike-riding Max, in the British Disney Channel cartoon series \"\". Over Christmas and New Year's 2008–09 he appeared at The White Rock Theatre, Hastings, performing the leading role in the pantomime Peter Pan. Both Lee and the show were well received. Later in 2009 Lee appeared as Billy Fury in Nick Moran’s new film \"Telstar\". On 22 May 2010 he appeared in BBC One's \"Casualty\" as Craig, who is unexpectedly diagnosed with motor neurone disease. He played John in the internationally acclaimed musical \"Tomorrow Morning\" by Laurence Mark Wythe at the Landor Theatre in London. Over the following Christmas and New Year's, Lee appeared at the New Victoria Theatre, Woking as Prince Charming in \"Cinderella\".\n\nIn October 2012 Lee announced, via Twitter, that he had recorded his debut solo album, \"Fallen Angel\". The first track on the album, \"My Father's Son\", was premiered on 4 November by BBC Radio 2's Paul O'Grady. The album was released on 4 March 2013. Lee took on the part of Frankie Valli in \"Jersey Boys\" at the Prince Edward Theatre, London, from 15 March 2011 until 7 March 2014. At the end of 2012, whilst maintaining his \"Jersey Boys\" commitments, Lee took the lead role in \"Aladdin\" at The O2 in London and acted alongside O'Grady, who revived his alter-ego Lily Savage.\n\nIn August 2016, Lee appeared at the Lytham Festival's \"West End Proms\". In March 2017 Lee appeared on \"Let's Sing and Dance for Comic Relief\" as part of \"Boys Allowed\" with Gareth Gates. Duncan James, Ritchie Neville and Ben Ofoedu. In March 2018, he appeared on ITV's \"Dinner Date\".\n\nIn August 2010 Lee revealed, in an interview with \"Gay Times\" magazine, that he was gay. He added that he had come out to family and friends at a young age, and that \"it's never needed to be a huge change that I've had to tell everyone about\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1916929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916929", "title": "Barbara Sinatra", "text": "Barbara Sinatra\n\nBarbara Marx Sinatra (née Blakeley; March 10, 1927 – July 25, 2017) was an American model, showgirl, socialite, philanthropist, and the fourth wife of Frank Sinatra.\n\nOn March 10, 1927, she was born Barbara Ann Blakeley in Bosworth, Missouri, the elder of two daughters. Her parents were Charles Willis Blakeley (June 29, 1895 – October 5, 1989) and Irene Prunty (née Toppass) Blakeley (June 22, 1907 – December 15, 1993). At age 10, she moved with her parents and younger sister, Patricia, to Wichita, Kansas, where she was raised. In 1946, she graduated from Wichita North High School. At age 18, she moved to Long Beach, California.\n\nShe married Robert Oliver in September 1948 and had a son, Bobby on October 10, 1950. She divorced Oliver in 1952.\n\nShe married Zeppo Marx on September 18, 1959. Despite their divorce in 1973, she was thenceforth known as Barbara Marx.\n\nShe married Frank Sinatra on July 11, 1976. It was his fourth and final marriage, and her third and final marriage. It was also the longest-lasting marriage for both. She converted to Catholicism. According to her book, \"Lady Blue Eyes: My Life With Frank\", \"He [Frank] never asked me to change faith for him, but I could tell he was pleased that I'd consider it.\"\n\nUpon his death in 1998, Frank Sinatra left her $3.5 million in assets, along with mansions in Beverly Hills, Malibu, and Palm Springs. She also inherited the rights to Sinatra's \"Trilogy\" recordings, most of his material possessions and control over his name and likeness.\n\nBarbara Marx Sinatra died on July 25, 2017, in Rancho Mirage, California of natural causes at the age of 90. She died a year before Frank's first wife, Nancy, who died on July 14, 2018 at the age of 101.\n\nThe Sinatras founded the Barbara Sinatra Children's Center in Rancho Mirage, California, in 1986. The center is adjacent to the Betty Ford Center on the campus of the Eisenhower Medical Center. The non-profit facility provides individual and group therapy for young victims of physical, sexual, and emotional abuse. In 1998, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs Walk of Stars was dedicated to her.\n"}
{"id": "1916931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916931", "title": "Joseph Lombardo", "text": "Joseph Lombardo\n\nJoseph Patrick Lombardo (born Giuseppe Lombardi; January 1, 1929 – October 19, 2019), also known as \"Joey the Clown\", was an American mobster and a high-ranking member of the Chicago Outfit crime organization. He was alleged to be the \"Consigliere\" of the Outfit.\n\nLombardo was born on January 1, 1929, in Chicago, one of 11 children to Italian immigrants from Bari, Mike Lombardi, a butcher, and Carmela Lombardi. Lombardo, a high school dropout, at some point changed the final letter of his last name. He joined the Outfit in the 1950s.\n\nLombardo began his Outfit career as a jewel thief and as a juice loan collector. In 1963, Lombardo was arrested and charged with kidnapping and loan sharking, but was acquitted after a factory worker who had owed $2,000 and who was behind on his payments could not positively identify Lombardo. The acquittal was Lombardo's 11th in 11 arrests. Lombardo, who by the late 1960s was referred to as an \"up-and-comer\" in the Chicago Outfit along with Angelo J. LaPietra (known as \"The Hook\"), would take over the Outfit's operations in Las Vegas in 1971.\n\nOn December 15, 1982, Lombardo was convicted, along with Teamsters Union President Roy Williams and insurance executive Allen Dorfman, with bribery of Nevada Senator Howard Cannon in order to get a trucking deregulation bill blocked. Lombardo was sentenced to 15 years in prison for his role in the bribe conspiracy. In 1986, Lombardo was convicted of skimming over $2 million in proceeds in several Strip casinos (including the Stardust Resort & Casino), and was sentenced to another 10 years in prison. Lombardo was released on November 13, 1992, after serving only 10 years in prison.\n\nFollowing his release, Lombardo took the unusual step of taking out a small classified ad in the \"Chicago Tribune\" that read: \"I never took a secret oath, with guns and daggers, pricked my finger, drew blood or burned paper to join a criminal organization. If anyone hears my name used in connection with any criminal activity, please notify the FBI, local police, and my parole officer, Ron Kumke.\"\n\nIn 2003, Chicago newspapers began reporting that federal investigators were looking into solving old mob murders. In 2003, the FBI swabbed Lombardo for DNA. Federal authorities also notified Lombardo during the probe that his life might be in danger. On April 25, 2005, Lombardo, along with 13 other defendants was indicted as part of the federal government's Operation Family Secrets investigation, which lifted the veil on 18 killings since the 1970s that federal investigators had attributed to the Outfit. Lombardo was indicted for his role in at least one murder, as well as for running a racket based on illegal gambling, loan sharking and murder. As federal agents rounded up the 14 defendants on April 25, 2005, they realized that Lombardo had disappeared, who became a fugitive after they issued a federal arrest warrant.\n\nWhile Lombardo's whereabouts were unknown, he wrote letters to his lawyer, Rick Halprin—but directed toward the judge in the trial—in which he claimed to be innocent, requested a $50,000 recognizance bond, offered to take a lie detector test, and asked to be tried separately from the other defendants in the Family Secrets case—all requests that U.S. District Judge James Zagel denied. The first letter from Lombardo surfaced on May 4, 2005, was four pages long and riddled with spelling and grammatical errors. \"I am no part of enterprise or (\"sic\")... Have no part in the poker machines, extorcinate loans, gambling and what ever else the indictment says,\" the letter read. About the 18 murders in the indictment, I want you to know that I was not privy before the murders, during the murders, and after the murders, and to this present writing to you.\" Lombardo also told Zagel in the letter, \"I want you to know that I am not a violent man in anyway shape or form. I do not own or have any weapons of any kind. If the F.B.I. should find me I will come peacefully and no resistence (\"sic\") at all.\" Lombardo also asked Zagel \"If you have any ideas or suggestion of what I should do, notify my lawyer he could reach me by the media.\" In August and September 2005, Lombardo sent more letters to his attorney, indicating that he had been following local news coverage of a state hearing involving allegations that the mayor of Rosemont, Illinois, Donald Stephens, had met with several members of the Chicago Outfit. In response, Halprin quipped of his still-at-large client's newspaper-reading habit: \"I doubt that he has a home subscription.\"\n\nThe FBI then offered a $20,000 reward for information leading to Lombardo's capture. On January 13, 2006, after over eight months at large, a bearded, unkempt Lombardo, was captured by FBI agents outside the Elmwood Park, Illinois home of his longtime friend Dominic Calarco. Federal agents had been tipped off to Lombardo's whereabouts after Lombardo had visited dead Outfit mobster Tony Spilotro's dentist brother, Patrick Spilotro, for an abscessed tooth. He was carrying $3,000 at the time of the arrest. At his arraignment, Lombardo pleaded \"not guilty\". He also revealed that he had atherosclerosis and had not seen a doctor while he was at large because \"I was – what do they call it? I was unavailable\", prompting laughter in the courtroom.\n\nDuring the trial, which was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mitchell Mars, T. Markus Funk, and John Scully, Lombardo took the stand in his own defense, denying any involvement in the Daniel Seifert murder and claiming to have been at a police station at the time of the slaying, reporting the disappearance of his wallet. Federal prosecutors, however, noted Lombardo's fingerprint on the title application for a car used in the murder of Seifert. In addition, prosecutors pointed out that employees of an electronics store identified Lombardo as the purchaser of a police scanner used in Seifert's murder. Seifert was murdered in Bensenville, Illinois on September 27, 1974, in execution-style, and federal prosecutors say it was committed in front of Seifert's wife, who was holding her young son in her arms.\n\nOn September 10, 2007, Lombardo was convicted of racketeering, extortion, loan sharking and murder. On September 27, 2007, the same jury found Lombardo guilty of the 1974 Seifert murder.\n\nOn February 2, 2009, Zagel sentenced Lombardo, seated in a wheelchair, to life in prison for the convictions. Lombardo had continually professed his innocence, telling the court, \"Now I suppose the court is going to send me to a life in prison for something I did not do.\" He also said he was sorry for the suffering of the Seifert family but added, \"I did not kill Danny Seifert.\" Zagel had told Lombardo, \"Mr. Lombardo, you are not like the toxic creature I've seen forming in one of your co-defendants,\" referring to Frank Calabrese, Sr., whom Zagel had sentenced to life in prison the previous week, but after Lombardo had insisted his innocence, Zagel also said, \"The worst things you have done are terrible and I see no regret in you.\"\n\nIn September 2006, while in federal lockup at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Chicago, Lombardo had a heart attack and was brought to Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where he was diagnosed as having had a minor heart attack; he was put into an operating room where he underwent surgery, to have a stent installed—his fourth stent procedure. It was also reported he suffered from throat cancer and that his gallbladder had been removed.\n\nHe served his sentence at ADX Florence supermax prison, where he died on October 19, 2019, at the age of 90.\n\nLombardo earned the nickname \"The Clown\" from his joking demeanor and for his various antics, including grinning wide for mug shots and for departing a 1981 court appearance at the federal courts building in Chicago holding a \"Chicago Sun-Times\" newspaper in front of his face with a hole cut out so he could see. In 2005, Halprin spoke to the \"Chicago Tribune\" about his client's nickname, saying \"[T]hat's a name he doesn't relish, and neither do I. The guy I know is not a clown.\"\n\nLombardo married Marion Nigro in a Catholic ceremony in 1951. They had two children. Lombardo lived in the same modest condominium building on West Ohio Street, on the Near West Side of Chicago, from the time he was married until he became a fugitive in 2005.\n\nLombardo and his wife, Marion, reportedly divorced in 1991, but Lombardo continued to reside in the same condominium building, moving after his divorce to a basement unit. In 2006, federal prosecutors alleged that Lombardo's divorce was a sham to hide money. \"If you think it's a sham divorce, investigate it\", Lombardo's attorney Rick Halprin told reporters on February 9, 2006.\n\nProsecutors said Marion Lombardo appeared to have sold three parcels in Florida held by the MJJ Trust for more than $4.5 million in 2003. They said there is a May 1992 dissolution of marriage record but that it appears the Lombardos lived together until the latest indictment. They said two warranty deeds recording the sale of the Florida property referred to Marion Lombardo as \"a married woman\". Lombardo's lawyer had stated that the assets had been placed in an \"irrevocable trust\" for Lombardo's family.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916939", "title": "Death to the Daleks", "text": "Death to the Daleks\n\nDeath to the Daleks is the third serial of the 11th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 23 February to 16 March 1974.\n\nIn the serial, the Daleks and a human expedition both arrive on the planet Exxilon to seek a mineral found in abundance there. This was the last serial to have an episode wiped, but all episodes are retained in the archives.\n\nTravelling through space, the TARDIS suffers an energy drain and crash-lands on the planet Exxilon. The Third Doctor and Sarah Jane Smith venture outside to investigate the cause of the interference, and become separated. The Doctor is captured by the planet's inhabitants, the savage Exxilons, but escapes. Sarah is attacked by one of the creatures in the TARDIS, and flees, finding a huge white city with a flashing beacon.\n\nWhen daylight arrives, the Doctor is found by a party of the Marine Space Corps; they take him to their ship, which has been stranded by a power drain. They are on an expedition to mine \"Parrinium\" – a mineral abundant only on Exxilon – which can cure and give immunity from a deadly space plague. The lives of at least 10 million people depend on the expedition's obtaining the Parrinium and leaving the planet within a month. They show the Doctor some photos they have taken of the nearby city – which the Exxilons worship, sacrificing anyone who ventures too close. Sarah does so and is captured and taken to the Exxilons' caves to be sacrificed by their High Priest.\n\nA ship containing four Daleks arrives; both the ship and their weapons have been rendered useless by the energy drain. The Daleks encounter the Doctor and attempt to exterminate him, but their weapons do not work. The Daleks claim that several of their planetary colonies are suffering from plague; thus they need Parrinium for the same reason as the humans. The Daleks, the Doctor, and the humans form an uneasy alliance to obtain Parrinium and escape Exxilon. While the allies are making their way to the humans' mining dome, the Exxilons ambush them. A massive battle ensues and the Exxilons end up killing a human and a Dalek and capturing the others. The prisoners are taken to the Exxilon caves where the Doctor interrupts Sarah Jane's sacrifice; therefore, he is also condemned to death. When the dual sacrifice commences, a second party of Daleks, who have replaced their energy weapons with firearms, attack in force, killing a number of Exxilons. They force the Exxilons and humans to mine Parrinium. The Doctor and Sarah flee into tunnels. The other party of Daleks arrive and they discuss their actual plan to use Parrinium to create a plague and spread it across every planet except their own.\n\nThe Doctor and Sarah meet a group of subterranean, fugitive Exxilons. Their leader, Bellal, explains that the city was built by the Exxilons' ancestors, who were once capable of space travel. They built the city to be capable of maintaining, repairing, and protecting itself. Fitting the structure with a brain meant that the city no longer needed its creators. On realising this, the Exxilons had tried to destroy the city, but the city destroyed most of them; the savage surface dwellers and Bellal's group are the only survivors. Bellal's people seek to complete their ancestors' last, failed act – to destroy the city and ensure their race's survival. Bellal sketches some of the markings on the city wall; the Doctor recognises the markings from a temple in Peru deducing that the ancient Exxilons visited Earth. Bellal also explains that the city supports itself through underground \"roots\" and the aerial beacon. The Doctor realises that the beacon must be the cause of the energy drain and decides to go to the city and resolve the problem.\n\nThe Daleks come to the same conclusion and create two timed explosives to destroy the beacon. One Dalek supervises two humans placing the explosives, but one of the humans, Galloway, secretly keeps one bomb. Two other Daleks enter the city to investigate the superstructure, but the Doctor and Bellal enter the city just before them. The two parties then proceed through the city, passing a series of progressive intelligence tests. The Doctor reasons that the city has arranged the tests so that only lifeforms with knowledge comparable to that of the city's creators would reach the brain, allowing the city to add the knowledge of the survivors to its databanks. On reaching the central chamber, the Doctor begins to sabotage the city's computer brain; the machine responds by creating two Exxilon-like \"antibodies\" to \"neutralise\" the Doctor and Bellal. The pair are saved when the Daleks enter and fight the antibodies, and the Doctor and Bellal escape as the city's sabotaged controls begin to malfunction. The two Daleks inside are destroyed.\n\nWhen the bomb on the beacon explodes, all power is restored. The Daleks order the humans to load the Parrinium onto their ship. On leaving Exxilon, the Daleks intend to fire a plague missile onto the planet, destroying all life and making future landings impossible, so that they will have the only source of Parrinium. Their true intention for hoarding Parrinium is to blackmail the galactic powers to accept their demands; refusal would mean the deaths of millions. As their ship takes off, Sarah reveals that the Daleks have only bags of sand while the real Parrinium is on the Earth ship, which is now ready to take off. Galloway has smuggled himself and his bomb aboard the Dalek ship; he detonates the bomb, destroying the Dalek ship before it fires the plague missile. Back on Exxilon, the City disintegrates and collapses, the Doctor sadly commenting that the Universe is now down to 699 Wonders.\n\nWorking titles for this story were \"The Exilons\" and \"The Exxilons\". The incidental music for this serial was composed by Carey Blyton and performed by the London Saxophone Quartet.\n\nThis is one of two Third Doctor serials (the other being \"The Claws of Axos\") to still have a 90-minute PAL studio recording tape.\n\nPart One of this story was chronologically the last to have its original master videotape wiped for re-use. This was initially returned to the BBC archive in 1981 through the discovery of a 525-line NTSC recording from Canada. Subsequently, two separate PAL recordings were discovered, including a high quality 625-line recording returned in 1991 as part of a shipment from Dubai. The other PAL copy had been returned to the BBC from Australia in 1985, although it had been edited and censored.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping wrote of the serial in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), \"A confused story with, for once, too much rather than too little plot. There really doesn't seem any need to have the Daleks in it at all. There are some adequate sacrifice scenes for Sarah to scream in, but the production seems tired and insipid\". In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker were more positive, even opining that it was the best of the eleventh season. They wrote that, despite the \"small scale\" action, \"the scripts are still well-written and entertaining, with a good premise and some interesting concepts\", and the story overall was \"of excellent set pieces and impressive images\". However, Howe and Walker were less impressed with the model shots of the city disintegrating, the Exxilons' character depth, and the incidental music.\n\nIn 2010, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" wrote that the story had appeal, with the Daleks at their \"duplicitous best\" and the first episode being \"arguably the most effective episode of season 11\". However, he was critical of Blyton's score and felt that Pertwee and the guest cast seemed unenthused, and also noted that the Doctor and Sarah lacked chemistry and the Doctor \"verges on insufferably patronising and is landed with dreadful lines\". DVD Talk's John Sinnott gave \"Death to the Daleks\" four out of five stars, praising the Daleks, the pace, and the supporting characters, and in contrast to Mulkern, he praised the chemistry between the Doctor and Sarah. However, he felt that the ending in which the Doctor solves puzzles was simplistic and lacked suspense. Ian Berriman, reviewing the serial for \"SFX\", rated it three out of four stars, describing it as \"a perfectly adequate four episodes of generic action-adventure\". Berriman praised the atmospheric direction, Bellal, and felt that the score \"effectively conjures an air of the uncanny\". However, he felt that the Daleks were \"daft\", and criticised the puzzle plot and Jill, the \"feeble\" sole female character.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in July 1978. A German translation was published in 1990 by Goldmann.\n\nThe serial was released on video in an omnibus format in July 1987, the first \"Doctor Who\" video to be released on just VHS, instead of both VHS and Betamax. As the PAL version of episode one was not yet known to exist, this used the NTSC version of the episode. In the US, it was released by Playhouse Video (a subsidiary of CBS/Fox Video) on VHS and Beta. An episodic release (with the PAL version of episode one) was released on 13 February 1995, although episode two was slightly edited due to BBC Video mistakenly using a cut version of episode 2 returned from ABC TV in Australia (episodes 3 & 4 were also from ABC TV), instead of the UK master tapes of episodes 2–4. \"Death to the Daleks\" was released on DVD in the UK on 18 June 2012, and in region 1 on 10 July 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916943", "title": "Daljit Dhaliwal", "text": "Daljit Dhaliwal\n\nDaljit Dhaliwal (born 8 September 1962) is a British newsreader and television presenter.\n\nDhaliwal is a former news presenter for the Al-Jazeera English news service that broadcast from Washington DC. Previously, she was the anchor chair of \"Worldfocus\" on PBS, which aired its last broadcast on 2 April 2010. She has been best known for presenting the critically acclaimed program \"Foreign Exchange\" also on PBS and the United Nations Television produced 21st Century documentary seen on CUNY cable television. Dhaliwal also does news segments for ABC News Now. From January 2008 to October 2009, she was sole anchor of \"Foreign Exchange\". She later did one episode of \"Global Watch\" in April 2008. She had been previously working on and off as a newsreader for BBC World News since November 2005, mostly as substitute for Katty Kay.\n\nDhaliwal was born in London, England, grew up in Southall, London.\n\nShe earned a bachelor's degree from the University of East London, an MA degree in politics, history and economics from the University of London, and an honorary doctorate from the University of East London.\n\nDhaliwal started her career as a field reporter for BBC Home TV News, then became anchor at ITN World News.\n\nWhen ITN started the ITN World News she regularly presented the evening bulletins until the end of 2001. She presented with Andrew Harvey with each alternating each hour throughout the evening. Later in 2001, Dhaliwal's ITN World News broadcast was cancelled due to lack of corporate funding, (PBS switched from ITN World News to BBC World News which has late breaking live broadcast). She also was co-host of the inaugural season of PBS's \"Wide Angle\" in 2002. She returned as sole anchor in 2006, then left.\n\nShe had previously been a presenter starting out for BBC Home News as a field reporter and then \"Channel 4 News\". She left BBC Home to host \"ITN World News\" and \"ITN World Focus\" a news summary on weekends.\n\nDhaliwal left London to work in Atlanta, Georgia, at CNN International and CNNfn. She became a temporary replacement newsreader on BBC World in November 2005 to substitute for Katty Kay who was on maternity leave. She had co-anchored primarily from WNET's studios on West 44th Street in Times Square, New York City, but usually reported from the BBC World News studios in Washington, DC.\n\nAfter that she moved to Atlanta, Georgia, wooed there by CNN International and CNNfn to host \"Your World Today\". Dhaliwal has also worked for the United Nations and UNICEF, hosting important conferences in New York City and The Hague, Netherlands. She continues to work for the United Nations, presenting UNTV's award-winning monthly newsmagazine \"21st Century\".\n\nFor two seasons, Dhaliwal hosted \"Wide Angle\" from July 2006, but left to do her other shows and was replaced by reporter Aaron Brown. She hosted \"Foreign Exchange\" and \"Global Watch\". Dhaliwal is currently a news presenter on Al-Jazeera English and \"ABC News Now\", hosting a variety of programs for the digital network.\n\nIn May 1999, she was named one of \"People\" Magazine's \"50 Most Beautiful People in the World\" and in August 1999, \"Esquire Magazine\" placed her on their \"Women We Love\" list. After much anticipation on his part, David Letterman invited Dhaliwal to his show (\"The Late Show with David Letterman\") on 6 July 2000. During his shows prior to her appearance, Letterman gushed at how beautiful he thought she was, and would say how he will get his people to bring her to the show.\n\nDhaliwal lives in New York City. She was married to Lee Patrick Sullivan for two years, but they have since divorced.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916944", "title": "STAR detector", "text": "STAR detector\n\nThe STAR detector (for Solenoidal Tracker at RHIC) is one of the four experiments at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) in Brookhaven National Laboratory, United States.\n\nThe primary scientific objective of STAR is to study the formation and characteristics of the quark-gluon plasma (QGP), a state of matter believed to exist at sufficiently high energy densities. Detecting and understanding the QGP allows physicists to understand better the Universe in the seconds after the Big Bang, when the presently-observed symmetries (and asymmetries) of the Universe were established.\n\nUnlike other physics experiments where a theoretical prediction can be tested directly by a single measurement, STAR must make use of a variety of simultaneous studies in order to draw strong conclusions about the QGP. This is due both to the complexity of the system formed in the high-energy nuclear collision and the unexplored landscape of the physics studied. STAR therefore consists of several types of detectors, each specializing in detecting certain types of particles or characterizing their motion. These detectors work together in an advanced data acquisition and subsequent physics analysis that allows definitive statements to be made about the collision.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the Big Bang, the expanding matter was so hot and dense that protons and neutrons could not exist. Instead, the early universe comprised a plasma of quarks and gluons, which in today's cool universe are confined and exist only within composite particles (bound states) – the hadrons, such as protons and neutrons. Collisions of heavy nuclei at sufficiently high energies allow physicists to study whether quarks and gluons become deconfined at high densities, and if so, what the properties of this matter (i.e. quark–gluon plasma) are.\n\nIn particular, STAR studies the collective expansion of the hot quark-gluon matter, such as the elliptic flow. This allows to extract the transport coefficients that characterize the quark-gluon matter, including the shear and bulk viscosity, and to investigate macroscopic quantum phenomena, such as the chiral magnetic effect.\n\nThe governance of STAR is via two branches: the institutional Council which is run by a Chairperson elected from the Council ranks, and elected Spokesperson(s) and their management team. The Spokesperson(s) represent the Collaboration in scientific, technical, and managerial concerns. The Council deals with general issues that concern the collaboration. Examples include the organization and governance of the Collaboration, adoption of bylaws and amendments thereto, the policy on admission of new members institutions to the Collaboration, and Policies for the Publication and Presentation of STAR Results.\n\nThe term of the office of the Council Chair is nominally two years. he Council elects, a Spokesperson or a team of two Spokespersons who then serve at the discretion of the Council. The normal term of office for the Spokesperson(s) is 3 years, and an individual is eligible to serve at most two consecutive terms as Spokesperson(s).\n\nThe elected Spokesperson(s) and their team of Deputies, and the Council Chairs of STAR are listed below. The Institute listed indicates the institute the person was at when they held the position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916953", "title": "Swedish Volunteer Corps (Winter War)", "text": "Swedish Volunteer Corps (Winter War)\n\nThe Swedish Volunteer Corps () during the Winter War numbered 9,640 officers and men. Sweden was officially non-belligerent during the war, so the Corps was used by Finland. The Swedish volunteers were in the front lines in the northern Salla area starting from February 28, 1940. Their losses included 33 dead, 10 missing, 50 wounded, and 130 disabled by frostbite. There were also 25 aircraft that served in the Swedish Voluntary Air Force, F19. Swedish volunteers also defended Turku in an anti-aircraft battery.\n\nBy the end of the war, the Volunteer Corps was composed of 8,260 Swedes, plus 725 Norwegians, and 600 Danes. They demonstrated a strong Nordic unity that was symbolized in their \"four brother hands\" insignia which represented Finland, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.\n\n\nSwedish Volunteer Corps - \"Svenska Frivilligkåren\"\n\n\n\n\n33 men of the Swedish Volunteer Corps were killed. These were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916954", "title": "Carleen Hutchins", "text": "Carleen Hutchins\n\nCarleen Maley Hutchins (May 24, 1911 – August 7, 2009) was an American former high school science teacher, violinmaker and researcher, best known for her creation, in the 1950s/60s, of a family of eight proportionally-sized violins now known as the violin octet (e.g., the vertical viola) and for a considerable body of research into the acoustics of violins. She was born in Springfield, Massachusetts and worked at her home in Montclair, New Jersey.\n\nHutchins’ greatest innovation, still used by many violinmakers, was a technique known as free-plate tuning. When not attached to a violin, the top and back are called free plates. Her technique gives makers a precise way to refine these plates before a violin is assembled.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2003, Hutchins’s octet was the subject of an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Titled “The New Violin Family: Augmenting the String Section.” Hutchins was the founder of the New Violin Family Association,\ncreator-in-chief of the \"Violin Octet\", author of more than 100 technical publications, editor of two volumes of collected papers in violin acoustics, four grants from the Martha Baird Rockefeller Fund for Music, recipient of two Guggenheim Fellowships, an Honorary Fellowship from the Acoustical Society of America, and four honorary doctorates. In 1963, Hutchins co-founded the Catgut Acoustical Society, which develops scientific insights into the construction of new and conventional instruments of the violin family.\n\nThe Hutchins Consort, named after Hutchins, is a California ensemble featuring all eight instruments.\n\nIn 1974, Hutchins and Daniel W. Haines, using materials supplied by the Hercules Materials Company, Inc. (Allegany Ballistics Laboratory) of Cumberland, Maryland, developed a graphite-epoxy composite top that was determined to be a successful alternative to the traditional use of spruce for the violin belly.\n\n\n\"American Luthier: Carleen Hutchins—the Art and Science of the Violin\" by Quincy Whitney, Foredge, 2016, \n"}
{"id": "1916965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916965", "title": "Billy Boys", "text": "Billy Boys\n\n\"Billy Boys\", also titled \"The Billy Boys\", is a loyalist song from Glasgow, sung to the tune of \"Marching Through Georgia.\" It originated in the 1920s as the signature song of one of the Glasgow razor gangs led by Billy Fullerton and later became viewed to reflect the long-running sectarian divide in the city. It is associated in particular with Rangers F.C..\n\n\"Billy Boys\" originated in the 1920s as the signature tune of the Brigton Boys, also called The Billy Boys of Brigton Cross, who were a Protestant street gang in Bridgeton (an area of Glasgow historically associated with the city's Protestant population, and with Scottish unionism - \"Brigton\" is the Scots form of Bridgeton) led by Billy Fullerton. The gang often clashed with Roman Catholic gangs such as the Norman Conks and the Calton Tongs. Fullerton was a member of the British Fascists who was awarded a medal for strike-breaking during the 1926 General Strike and formed a Glasgow branch of the British Union of Fascists with the onset of World War II. The \"Billy Boys\" song was often sung loudly when the gang performed it. They regularly sang it when they marched through primarily Catholic areas of Glasgow on Catholic holy days. This often led to the Brigton Boys being attacked by members of the Norman Conks as a result. Despite being primarily based in Glasgow, in the 1930s the Brigton Boys were invited to march in Belfast and sang \"Billy Boys\" while they were there as part of The Twelfth celebrations.\n\nThe Brigton Boys and their youth wing, the Derry Boys, started to attend association football matches in the late 1920s and early 1930s. During this time, they attended Rangers matches and Rangers fans started to sing the \"Billy Boys\" song as part of a perceived affiliation with the Brigton Boys.\n\nDespite Percy Sillitoe, the Chief Constable of Glasgow, eradicating the Glasgow razor gangs and most young Protestants joining the Orange Order instead of the remaining gangs, Rangers fans continued to sing the \"Billy Boys\" in tribute to Fullerton as he still retained a prominent position among Glasgow Protestants even after the gangs had disbanded. The Orange Order then adopted the \"Billy Boys\" song and changed the lyrics to be played on Orange walks, with the references to Billy being altered to refer to King William III of England, Scotland and Ireland.\n\nEven after Fullerton's death, Rangers fans continued to sing \"Billy Boys\" to commemorate Fullerton and the Brigton Boys. In later years, attempts were made to portray the song as being against Irish republicanism rather than Catholics. In 1999, the Scotland national football team manager Craig Brown was filmed singing \"Billy Boys\" and faced calls to step down from his position in charge of the Scotland national football team. However, the Scottish Football Association (SFA) gave him their backing.\n\nThe song was at the centre of a controversy surrounding \"ninety-minute bigots\", an expression allegedly coined by former Rangers chairman Sir David Murray: \"Ninety-minute Bigots do not hold beliefs but nonetheless sing songs at football matches which are sectarian, simply to join in with the rest of the crowd.\" Rangers have adopted several measures to tackle this behaviour including attempts to bring older Rangers songs back into popular use, with Murray speaking out against the singing of the \"Billy Boys\" on many occasions. In 2006, Rangers were charged by UEFA for discriminatory chanting over the singing of \"Billy Boys\" during a UEFA Champions League game against Villarreal. Rangers were found not guilty due to \"Billy Boys\" having been sung for years without the SFA or the Scottish government intervening against it and ruled that it was tolerated as a social and historic song. However, after an appeal where they were warned, Rangers were ordered by UEFA to make a public announcement at all home games, prohibiting the singing of the song despite UEFA admitting they were unable to do anything about it because it was a Scottish social issue.\n\nIn 2011, \"Billy Boys\" was included in a list of chants that had been banned from Scottish football grounds as part of new legislation from the Scottish government. It was specifically banned because of its \"Up to our knees in Fenian blood\" line. It was banned because it was decided by the Scottish government that \"Fenian\" in the context of the song meant Roman Catholics and was thus sectarian despite Rangers fans stating that it meant Irish republicans or fans of their Old Firm rivals, Celtic.\n\nDespite the ban, \"Billy Boys\" has still been sung at Rangers matches, including their match against Queen's Park at Hampden Park in 2012. It is sometimes sung without the \"Fenian\" line but has also been sung in its original form. Other Scottish football clubs, among them Heart of Midlothian, Kilmarnock, and Dundee, use versions of \"Billy Boys\" adapted to support their own clubs.\n\nThe \"Billy Boys\" song has also been used in Northern Ireland, which may have arisen as a result of the Brigton Boys' march in Belfast. It is often used by supporters of Belfast club Linfield due to historic links with Rangers as \"Blues Brothers\".\n\nThe song was sung in 2013 by supporters of the Northern Ireland national football team during their match against Luxembourg at Stade Josy Barthel in protest against the Northern Ireland team anthem, \"God Save the Queen\", not being played at the Irish Cup final. In April 2014, the Irish Football Association (IFA) introduced punishments for \"any ... song or chant that is undeniably sectarian or offensive\". Linfield advised their supporters that this included all variations of \"Billy Boys\", including the \"Marching Through Georgia\" tune. The IFA based their decision on the precedent from the UEFA decision regarding \"Billy Boys\" and Rangers in 2006. There was doubt expressed by fans as to how the IFA would enforce the ban on the \"Marching Through Georgia\" tune if it was used in a song other than \"Billy Boys\".\n\nThe 'Derry Boys' were a smaller, youth faction of the Billy Boys, and the original version used the term \"Brigton Billy Boys\" in its place.\n\nAn alternative, sanitised Rangers-specific version was later written:\n"}
{"id": "1916966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916966", "title": "Information infrastructure", "text": "Information infrastructure\n\nAn information infrastructure is defined by Ole Hanseth (2002) as \"a shared, evolving, open, standardized, and heterogeneous installed base\" and by Pironti (2006) as all of the people, processes, procedures, tools, facilities, and technology which supports the creation, use, transport, storage, and destruction of information. \n\nThe notion of information infrastructures, introduced in the 1990s and refined during the following decade, has proven quite fruitful to the information systems (IS) field. It changed the perspective from organizations to networks and from systems to infrastructure, allowing for a global and emergent perspective on information systems. Information infrastructure is a technical structure of an organizational form, an analytical perspective or a semantic network. \n\nThe concept of information infrastructure (II) was introduced in the early 1990s, first as a political initiative (Gore, 1993 & Bangemann, 1994), later as a more specific concept in IS research. For the IS research community, an important inspiration was Hughes′ (1983) accounts of large technical systems, analyzed as socio-technical power structures (Bygstad, 2008).\n\nInformation infrastructure, as a theory, has been used to frame a number of extensive case studies (Star and Ruhleder 1996; Ciborra 2000; Hanseth and Ciborra 2007), and in particular to develop an alternative approach to IS design: \"Infrastructures should rather be built by establishing working local solutions supporting local practices which subsequently are linked together rather than by defining universal standards and subsequently implementing them\" (Ciborra and Hanseth 1998). It has later been developed into a full design theory, focusing on the growth of an installed base (Hanseth and Lyytinen 2008).\n\nInformation infrastructures include the Internet, health systems and corporate systems. It is also consistent to include innovations such as Facebook, LinkedIn and MySpace as excellent examples (Bygstad, 2008). \nBowker has described several key terms and concepts that are enormously helpful for analyzing information infrastructure: imbrication, bootstrapping, figure/ground, and a short discussion of infrastructural inversion. \"Imbrication\" is an analytic concept that helps to ask questions about historical data. \"Bootstrapping\" is the idea that infrastructure must already exist in order to exist (2011).\n\n\"Technological and non-technological elements that are linked\" (Hanseth and Monteiro 1996).\n\n\"Information infrastructures can, as formative contexts, shape not only the work routines, but also the ways people look at practices, consider them 'natural' and give them their overarching character of necessity. Infrastructure becomes an essential factor shaping the taken-for-grantedness of organizational practices\" (Ciborra and Hanseth 1998).\n\n\"The technological and human components, networks, systems, and processes that contribute to the functioning of the health information system\" (Braa et al. 2007).\n\n\"The set of organizational practices, technical infrastructure and social norms that collectively provide for the smooth operation of scientific work at a distance (Edwards et al. 2007).\n\n\"A shared, evolving, heterogeneous installed base of IT capabilities developed on open and standardized interfaces\" (Hanseth and Lyytinen 2008).\n\nAccording to the Online Etymology Dictionary (OED) the etymology of the words that make up the phrase \"information infrastructure\" are as follows:\n\nInformation late 14c., \"act of informing,\" from O.Fr. informacion, enformacion \"information, advice, instruction,\" from L. informationem (nom. informatio) \"outline, concept, idea,\" noun of action from pp. stem of informare (see inform). Meaning \"knowledge communicated\" is from mid-15c. Information technology attested from 1958. Information revolution from 1969.\n\nInfrastructure 1887, from Fr. infrastructure (1875); see infra- + structure. The installations that form the basis for any operation or system. Originally in a military sense.\n\nAccording to Star and Ruhleder, there are 8 dimensions of information infrastructures.\n\nPresidential Chair and Professor of Information Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, Christine L. Borgman argues information infrastructures, like all infrastructures, are \"subject to public policy\". In the United States, public policy defines information infrastructures as the \"physical and cyber-based systems essential to the minimum operations of the economy and government\" and connected by information technologies.\n\nBorgman says governments, businesses, communities, and individuals can work together to create a global information infrastructure which links \"the world's telecommunication and computer networks together\" and would enable the transmission of \"every conceivable information and communication application.\"\n\nCurrently, the Internet is the default global information infrastructure.\"\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Telecommunications and Information Working Group (TEL) Program of Asian for Information and Communications Infrastructure.\n\nAssociation of South East Asian Nations, e-ASEAN Framework Agreement of 2000.\n\nNational Information Infrastructure Act of 1993 National Information Infrastructure (NII)\n\nThe National Research Council established CA*net in 1989 and the network connecting \"all provincial nodes\" was operational in 1990. \nThe Canadian Network for the Advancement of Research, Industry and Education(CANARIE) was established in 1992 and CA*net was upgraded to a T1 connection in 1993 and T3 in 1995. By 2000, \"the commercial basis for Canada's information infrastructure\" was established, and the government ended its role in the project.\n\nIn 1994, the European Union proposed the European Information Infrastructure.: European Information Infrastructure has evolved furthermore thanks to Martin Bangemann report and projects eEurope 2003+, eEurope 2005 and iIniciaive 2010 \n\nIn 1995, American Vince President Al Gore asked USAID to help improve Africa's connection to the global information infrastructure.\n\nThe USAID Leland Initiative (LI) was designed from June to September 1995, and implemented in on 29 September 1995. The Initiative was \"a five-year $15 million US Government effort to support sustainable development\" by bringing \"full Internet connectivity\" to approximately 20 African nations.\n\nThe initiative had three strategic objectives:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916979", "title": "Tinajo (municipality)", "text": "Tinajo (municipality)\n\nTinajo is a municipality in the western part of the island of Lanzarote in the Province of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands, Spain. The population is 6119 (2018), and the area is . The municipality is located on the island's northwestern coast and is northwest of the island's capital, Arrecife. The main town in the municipality is Tinajo.\n\nThe following settlements are located within the municipality of Tinajo:\n\nThe Timanfaya National Park (created in 1974) covers the southwestern part of the municipality and is where most of its volcanoes are located. The park features volcanoes and rugged lands. The rest of the park is in the municipality of Yaiza.\n\nThe chapel of Our Lady of Dolours (\"Virgen de los Dolores\"), the patron saint of the island of Lanzarote, is located in Mancha Blanca, within the municipality of Tinajo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1916981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916981", "title": "Ligurian Alps", "text": "Ligurian Alps\n\nThe Ligurian Alps are a mountain range in northwestern Italy. A small part is located in France. They form the south-western extremity of the Alps, separated from the Apennines by the Colle di Cadibona. The Col de Tende separates them from the Maritime Alps. They form the border between Piedmont in the north and Liguria in the south.\n\nAdministratively the range is divided between the Italian provinces of Cuneo, Imperia and Savona and the French department of Alpes-Maritimes (south-western slopes).\n\nThe Ligurian Alps are drained by the Tanaro River, along with other tributaries of the Po River, on the Piedmontese side, and by several smaller rivers that flow directly to the Mediterranean Sea on the Ligurian and French side.\n\nThe chief peak of the Western Ligurian Alps is Punta Marguareis (2,651 m), and there are several other summits over 2000 m, while in Eastern Ligurian Alps (also called \"Ligurian Prealps\") the maximum elevation is 1739 m (Monte Armetta).\n\nSome important passes in the Ligurian Alps are listed below.\n\nAround of the Ligurian side of the range since 2007 are part of the Parco naturale regionale delle Alpi Liguri. On the northern side of the range stands the \"Natural Park of Marguareis\", another regional natural park established by the regional government of Piemonte in 1978.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916988", "title": "Yaiza", "text": "Yaiza\n\nYaiza is a small town on the island of Lanzarote in the Canary Islands, Spain. It lies in the southwest of the island. The population in 2012 was 857. The town gives its name to the municipality of Yaiza, although it is much smaller than the largest settlement in the municipality, Playa Blanca.\n\nWith recently (2011) tree-lined roads, the town has a town hall and a floodlit public football stadium. \n\nEach year, at Christmas, Yaiza displays a large \"Belén\" (a belén is a nativity scene). The Yaiza Belén includes miniaturised scenes from around the island, with miniatures of Playa Blanca, Arrecife, and Timanfaya. Children and visitors are encouraged to seek the figurine of a young man defecating, as it is considered good luck to spot him.\n\nHighway LZ2 connects the town to Playa Blanca in the south and Arrecife to the east. \n\n"}
{"id": "1916993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916993", "title": "Whitcomb L. Judson", "text": "Whitcomb L. Judson\n\nWhitcomb L. Judson (March 7, 1843 – December 7, 1909) was an American machine salesman, mechanical engineer and inventor. He received thirty patents over a sixteen-year career, fourteen of which were on pneumatic street railway innovations. Six of his patents had to do with a motor mechanism suspended beneath the rail-car that functioned with compressed air. He founded the Judson Pneumatic Street Railway.\n\nJudson is most noted for his invention of the common zipper. It was originally called a clasp-locker. The first application was as a fastener for shoes and high boots. The patent said it could be used wherever it was desirable to connect a pair of adjacent flexible parts that could be detached easily. Possible applications noted were for corsets, gloves, and mail bags. \n\nJudson was born March 7, 1843 in Chicago, Illinois. He served in the Union Army and enlisted in 1861 at Oneida, Illinois in the 42nd Illinois Infantry Regiment according to the Illinois State Archives. Judson attended Knox College in his hometown Galesburg, Illinois. He was found in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in 1886. In 1886 and 1887 the Minneapolis city directory identified Judson as a \"traveling agent\" — a traveling salesman working probably for Pitts Agricultural Works. A couple of years later Judson began working for Earle Manufacturing Company with Harry L. Earle as the head of the firm. Judson sold band cutters and grain scales for them along with other items as one of their salesmen.\n\nJudson began his efforts of making inventions around 1888 to 1889. His concentration was on inventions for a \"pneumatic street railway\". His first patented invention was for a \"mechanical movement\" related to that. In 1889, Judson obtained six patents related to his concept of a street railway running on compressed air. The concept was similar to the cable railway system but with pistons suspended beneath the rail-car. Judson received a total of 14 patents related to this type of railway system out of the 30 patents he had.\n\nSimilar systems were tried throughout the nineteenth century, however, they all failed because of sealing problems. Judson's similar inventions were also impractical and as a whole not very successful. The street railway concept ultimately went electric. Judson Pneumatic Street Railway was initiated by Judson and Earle was one of the promoters. It even had a demonstration line in 1890 in Washington, D.C. for about a mile that was at what is today Georgia Avenue. It ran for only a few weeks before the company shut it down due to technical problems. A cable streetcar firm bought them out and turned it into an electric streetcar since Judson's system was impractical.\n\nJudson's most noteworthy invention, a chain-lock fastener, was the precursor to the modern zipper which he developed and invented in 1891. Judson is recognized as the inventor of the zipper. He also invented a \"clasp-locker\" automation production machine that made his fastener device inexpensively. His metal zipper fastener device was called a \"clasp-locker\" in his day, not a zipper — which name came into existence many years after his death. The \"clasp locker\" was a complicated hook-and-eye fastener with an arrangement of hooks and eyes run by a \"guide\" for closing and opening a clothing item. The first application was as a shoe fastener and there is mention in the patents for possible applications for corsets, gloves, mail bags, and \"generally wherever it is desired to detachably connect a pair adjacent flexible parts.\" It is also said one of the reasons he invented this device was to relieve the tedium of fastening high button boots that were fashionable in those days.\n\nJudson's first slide fastener patent was applied for in November 1891. At the time the United States Patent Office didn't require a working model of a patent, only that the invention was to be a novel idea. However, his invention was almost rejected by the patent assistant examiner Thomas Hart Anderson because there were several types of shoe fasteners already patented. He applied for a second patent on an improved version for the same item some nine months later before the first was even approved.\n\nThe patent was approved in May 1893 after the last amendment was filed with an improved version. When the two patents were finally issued on August 29 (along with 378 others that day), they received the numbers U.S.P. 504,038 (first) and U.S.P. 504,037 (second). These patents describe several designs of the \"clasp-locker\". Later design patents of the fastener describe opposite elements on each side that are identical to each other and fit together by the engaging of \"pintles\" and \"sockets.\" In his patent U.S.P. 557,207 of 1896 is a description mostly like the zipper of today. \n\nIn 1893, Judson exhibited his new invention at the Chicago World's Fair where it had its debut. Judson launched the Universal Fastener Company to manufacture his new invention, together with Harry L. Earle and Lewis Walker. The Universal Fastener Company started out in Chicago and then moved to Elyria, Ohio. It then moved to Catasauqua, Pennsylvania, and then to Hoboken, New Jersey. The name changed eventually to Automatic Hook and Eye Company.\n\nJudson's \"clasp-locker\" met with little commercial success at first. He ultimately never saw much success in the \"clasp-locker\" as a fashion item during his lifetime. Judson made a \"C-curity\" clasp-locker fastener in 1905 which was an improved version of his previous patents. It tended to break open unexpectedly like the predecessors. Clothing manufacturers showed little interest in Judson's fastener perhaps because of this reason.\n\nAn improved version of 1896 came with \n\nJudson made his invention to save people the trouble of buttoning and unbuttoning their shoes every day as shows in his wording in the patent application. He describes this in his patent U.S.P. 557,207 \n\nIn 1913, the zipper was improved by the Swedish-American engineer, Gideon Sundback, and also by Catharina Kuhn-Moos of Europe. Sundback successfully redesigned Judson's fastener into a more streamlined and reliable form called \"Talon.\" Automatic Hook and Eye Company then changed its name to the Hookless Fastener Company. In 1937 the Hookless Fastener Company became Talon, Inc.\n\nIn 1918, a textile company manufactured flying suits for the United States Navy with this fastener. Judson's company received an order for thousands of their \"clasp-locker\" fasteners. Soon thereafter they appeared on gloves and tobacco pouches. The B. F. Goodrich company in 1923 installed these fasteners in their rubber galoshes, calling the new design \"Zippers.\" This then became the name of the fastener itself. The design of the fastener today is much like Sundback's improvement of Judson's \"clasp-locker.\"\n\nJudson married his wife, Annie Martin, in 1874. They had three children: Jane, Gertrude, and Ross. Ross became vice-president of Continental Motor Manufacturing Company that developed the first automobile hydraulic system co-innovated by Judson.\n\nJudson lived in New York City for the later part of his life. He moved in 1906 to Muskegon, Michigan. There he died at the age of 63 on December 7, 1909.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916995", "title": "List of school districts in San Diego County, California", "text": "List of school districts in San Diego County, California\n\nList of school districts in San Diego County, California\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916996", "title": "Bill Sizemore", "text": "Bill Sizemore\n\nBill Sizemore (born June 2, 1951) is an American political activist and writer in Happy Valley, Oregon, United States. Sizemore has never held elected office, but has nonetheless been a major political figure in Oregon since the 1990s. He is considered one of the main proponents of the Oregon tax revolt, a movement that seeks to reduce taxes in the state. Oregon Taxpayers United, a political action committee he founded in 1993, has advanced numerous ballot initiatives limiting taxation, and has opposed spending initiatives. Sizemore made an unsuccessful run for Governor of Oregon in 1998. He also announced his intention to run for governor in 2010, but was indicted by the state on charges of tax evasion. The charges were later amended to failure to file tax returns.\n\nSizemore was born in Aberdeen, Washington on June 2, 1951. He graduated from Montesano High School in Montesano, Washington where he played varsity basketball and was voted by his teammates as the best defensive player and most inspirational player. He earned a degree in theology from Portland Bible College in 1976. After graduating, Sizemore taught Old Testament History and Systematic Christian Theology at Portland Bible College and ran a series of businesses, including a retail carpet business, a toy manufacturing company, and two Portland radio stations. For four years he hosted the Bill Sizemore Show, a two-hour daily news/talk program on Great Talk 1150 AM. \n\nIn 1993, Sizemore founded Oregon Taxpayers United and became its executive director. He is noted as the author and driving force behind a number of ballot initiatives in Oregon. One of the first measures Sizemore was involved in was a referendum which stopped Portland's $3.4 billion light rail expansion.\n\nSizemore added several initiatives in 2008.\n\nSizemore's most notable success was passing Measure 47 in 1996. The measure rolled back property taxes to 1995 levels. Measure 47 also mandated a double majority for ballot measures increasing taxes. With Sizemore's assistance, the Oregon Legislative Assembly amended some of the provisions of Measure 47 in 1997, and referred the amendments back to the voters as Measure 50, which also passed.\n\nIn 2000, Sizemore drafted and placed on the ballot Measure 7, which required governments to pay just compensation to property owners when a government-imposed regulation reduced the fair market value of their property. Oregon voters approved Measure 7, but the Oregon Supreme Court later nullified it. A similar measure, 2004's Measure 37, subsequently passed, and was amended by 2007's Measure 49.\nSizemore ran for Governor of Oregon as a Republican in 1998. He won his party's primary, defeating the Republican Party Chairman and three other candidates who had little or no name recognition. During the general election, \"The Oregonian\" ran three major articles detailing Sizemore's alleged shady business practices, both in private business and in the operation of his political action committee and non-profit educational foundation. These included one about a \"Trail of Debt\" he had allegedly left behind, one of which involved an outstanding loan from a fellow church member, which Sizemore says was eventually repaid; one about a fishing club on a private lake, to which he tried to sell memberships before obtaining state permission; and one about an apparently falsified loan application on which he claimed not to have declared bankruptcy when, in fact, he had done so. Sizemore said he did not check the boxes on the loan application relating to bankruptcy and that the loan officer who submitted the application did that on his own. Sizemore lost the November general election to incumbent Governor John Kitzhaber, a Democrat. Sizemore won 30% of the vote, to Kitzhaber's 64%.\n\nIn July 2000, the Oregon Education Association and the American Federation of Teachers filed a civil racketeering lawsuit against two of Sizemore's organizations: Oregon Taxpayers United and the OTU Education Foundation. Sizemore was not named personally as a defendant or party to the case. During the trial Becky Miller, Sizemore's top aide, under protection of state and federal immunity deals, testified in detail about allegedly unethical and illegal practices of Oregon Taxpayers United. These included alleged money laundering involving both Sizemore and Americans for Tax Reform founder Grover Norquist, as well as falsification of federal tax returns and state campaign finance reports. Additional testimony reported financial deals allegedly designed to disguise or hide the sources of funding for campaigns, as well as to allow Sizemore to personally profit from the campaigns.\n\nAfter three weeks of testimony and a million dollars in union legal fees, the jury found Sizemore's organizations guilty of racketeering, and the organizations were fined approximately $2.5 million. Sizemore refused to pay the fines and attempted to continue doing business by changing the name of his organizations to Oregon Taxpayers Association and carrying on with business as usual. After a post-trial hearing in which no evidence was submitted Sizemore was found personally liable for his organization's civil racketeering liability, and the judge shut down his 501(c)(3) education foundation. On appeal both sides claimed victory, as the Oregon Taxpayers United organizations were found liable for the judgments but the personal judgment against Sizemore was nullified by the Oregon Supreme Court.\n\nIn 2006, Sizemore broke with his pattern of anti-tax measures by filing Measure 42, a consumer-oriented bill that would have denied insurance companies the ability to take credit scores into account when setting insurance premiums. In the most expensive Oregon ballot measure campaign of 2006, the insurance industry spent $4 million to defeat the measure. The campaign to defeat the measure, which focused heavily on Sizemore's credibility, was successful.\n\nOn December 1, 2008, Sizemore was sent to jail after a Multnomah County judge found him in contempt of court for the fourth time in his long-running legal battle with two Oregon teachers unions. Multnomah County Circuit Judge Janice R. Wilson ordered Sizemore, who was not an officer of the corporation, jailed until he signed and filed federal and state tax forms that charitable organizations are required to complete to maintain their tax-exempt status. He was released the next day on December 2, 2008.\n\nOn November 23, Sizemore announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for Governor of Oregon in 2010.\n\nOn November 30, Sizemore and his wife were indicted by the State of Oregon on charges of tax evasion for failing to file state income tax returns for the years 2006–2008. He had previously acknowledged failing to file in sworn testimony and was indicted after he failed to file during Oregon's tax amnesty ended on November 19. Sizemore called the charges politically inspired and said he had paid $50,000 in estimated taxes for 2006 and 2007, but could not file actual returns until an ongoing civil case resolved the amount of his income for the years in question. Teachers union and Department of Justice lawyers had claimed in court that Sizemore had personally taken $850,000 from a nonprofit he had been running, but a later audit by the Oregon Department of Revenue determined that Sizemore's income for the years in question was $500,000 less than the teachers unions and Oregon DOJ lawyers had claimed. In 2011, after the judge in the case ruled that Sizemore would not be allowed to put on any defense, he pleaded guilty to three counts of felony failure to file state income-tax returns, with a plea agreement to serve 30 days jail and 3 years probation. Three years later Marion County Judge Claudia Burton retroactively converted the felonies to misdemeanors and all of Sizemore's rights were restored. \n\n\n\nSizemore has written three books, Escape from Jonestown, which was written under the pen name Billy Rivers, The Fractured Church, and Hell on Church Street, both of which were written under his own name. He continues to be a featured writer on a number of Web sites, such as \n"}
{"id": "1916998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916998", "title": "GJXDM", "text": "GJXDM\n\nThe Global Justice XML Data Model (GJXDM or Global JXDM) is a data reference model for the exchange of information within the justice and public safety communities. The Global JXDM is a product of the Global Justice Information Sharing Initiative's (Global) Infrastructure and Standards Working Group (ISWG), and was developed by the Global ISWG's XML Structure Task Force (XSTF).\n\nThe Global JXDM is a comprehensive product that includes a data model, a data dictionary, and an XML schema that together is known as the Global JXDM. Global JXDM is independent of vendors, operating systems, storage media, and applications and is quickly becoming key technology for assisting how criminal and judicial organizations exchange information. The Global JXDM is sponsored by the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), Office of Justice Programs (OJP), with development supported by the Global XML Structure Task Force (GXSTF), which works closely with researchers at the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI). New releases are issued by the GXSTF, which reviews and evaluates each version of the Global JXDM. The GXSTF solicits feedback from technical experts and practitioners in both industry and government and authorizes Global JXDM changes based on this feedback. All approved additions, deletions, and modifications are applied to future releases, with a cumulative change log published along with each release. When a reasonable number of updates are approved by the GXSTF, a new version is released.\n\nThe Global JXDM is an XML standard designed specifically for criminal justice information exchanges, providing law enforcement, public safety agencies, prosecutors, public defenders, and the judicial branch with a tool to effectively share data and information in a timely manner. The Global JXDM removes the burden from agencies to independently create exchange standards, and because of its extensibility, there is more flexibility to deal with unique agency requirements and changes. Through the use of a common vocabulary that is understood system-to-system, the Global JXDM enables access from multiple sources and reuse in multiple applications.\n\nThe federal government has long encouraged criminal justice agencies throughout the country to share information electronically. Historically, however, justice agencies have developed or invested in information systems independently of one another. While the applications that different organizations utilize to manage cases and store important information typically perform very similar functions, they often utilize unique technology or formatting that makes them incompatible with other systems. Consequently, many justice agencies have been forced to resort to inefficient methods of delivering information to each other, such as delivering important filings and documents via the postal service. \n\nIn March 2001, the OJP and the DOJ sponsored an effort to create a framework for the secure and timely sharing of information across the justice domain. Their objective was to lay the foundation for local, state, tribal, and national interoperability by providing a “common ground” that information systems across the country could use for data exchanges. After a two-year effort, the first prerelease of GJXDM was released in April 2003.\n\nWhen criminal justice agencies share data, they transmit Information Exchange Packages (IEPs) to each other. An IEP is a set of data that is transmitted between agencies for a specific purpose. For example, if a police department wanted the local prosecutor to charge an individual for a crime, the IEP sent from the police department would contain a very specific set of data (victim name, date and time of the offense, etc.) as well as any associated artifacts (dashcam video, 911 audio transcript). \n\nComplications arise, however, from the fact that the justice community does not utilize a standard, common vocabulary when describing and recording events. Differences in terminologies can make it difficult or impossible for shared data to be interpreted and utilized. For example, if the police department in the above scenario utilizes the term \"Supervision Official\" to describe the officer in charge of an arrest, while the prosecutor typically uses it to describe an officer supervising a suspect, the transmitted IEP will result in confusion. \n\nThe Global Justice XML Data Dictionary (Global JXDD or GJXDD) provides a solution to this problem by defining the common vocabulary utilized in the GJXDM. The GJXDD breaks down the information that is exchanged between agencies into individual data components and gives them unique names and definitions. These data components in turn serve as the “building blocks” of data exchanges. \n\nBecause the GJXDD defines a massive number of data components, smaller data dictionaries must be created for individual IEPs. These data dictionaries only contain the concepts and definitions relevant to their corresponding data transfers.\n\nWhile data dictionaries define the vocabulary utilized by the GJXDM to transmit IEPs, the relationships between the different data components need to be defined in order for the data to be interpreted correctly. For example, the personal information for a number of people may be included in a data exchange regarding a burglary. If the relationships between these data components are not defined, it will be impossible for justice professionals to distinguish the personal information of the owner of the house from that of the person who burglarized it. \n\nThe GJXDM utilizes data models to describe the relationships between the different \"building blocks\" included in an IEP. Data models link these different concepts together by the use of two types of relationships: “is_a” and “has_a.” The “is_a” type is used when one object or concept inherits characteristics from another type. The “has_a” relationship shows what kind of information an object has. In the example above, the burglar “is_a” person, while an investigating officer “has_a” Employment Person ID.\n\nThe true power of the GJXDM lies in its reuse repository, known as the IEPD Clearinghouse. Whenever a data dictionary and data model are created for an IEP, they are packaged within Information Exchange Package Documentation (IEPD). These IEPDs can be utilized as standards or templates for the creation of IEPs. For example, if an agency created an IEPD for an arrest filing, they could submit the IEPD to the Clearinghouse, where it could be downloaded by any agency wishing to facilitate electronic arrest filings. This saves agencies a great deal of time and resources as they don't have to create an arrest filing data dictionary and data model from scratch.\n\nIn September, 2005, the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), together with the Global Justice Information Sharing Initiative (Global), officially issued a newer version of the Global Justice Extensible Markup Language (XML) Data Model (Global JXDM) to the justice community, Version 3.0.3. This \"maintenance\" release of the Version 3.0 Global JXDM series is enhanced to increase the ability of justice and public safety communities to share justice information at all levels laying the foundation for local, state, and national justice interoperability. \n\nSome of the enhancements incorporated into Version 3.0.3 include the addition of new components that are compatible with previous version 3.0.2, new \"sequenceID\" values for \"PersonNameType\" sub-elements to assign an alternate ordering independent of the physical XML sequence, and an updated Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) resource that incorporates content from the Global JXDM Version 3.0 Reference Notes along with added FAQs.\n\nAn important feature is that the Global JXDM, Version 3.0.3, is forward compatible with all XML instances written for Global JXDM, Version 3.0. Global JXDM, Version 3.0, instances validate with all 3.0.3 schemas and schema subsets. Global JXDM, Versions 3.0.2 and 3.0, will remain available indefinitely. For a list of specific updates, refer to the Global JXDM Change Log.\n\nSince its first prerelease in April 2003, the Global JXDM has continued to undergo intensive reviews, receive feedback and error reports online from the public, and provide a Global JXDM Listserv discussion forum for sharing expertise and support. Today, more than 50 law enforcement and justice-related projects have been implemented utilizing the Global JXDM, further demonstrating the flexibility and stability of the Global JXDM.\n\nThe Global JXDM, Version 3.0.3 Global Justice XML Data Dictionary (Global JXDD) types and properties are rendered as XML Schema types, elements, and attributes. Also included are the most current enumeration type schemas (code tables) and their proxy schemas. Version 3.0.3 is compatible with Versions 3.0.2 and 3.0. See the FAQ on compatibility for an explanation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917000", "title": "Georg von der Gabelentz", "text": "Georg von der Gabelentz\n\nHans Georg Conon von der Gabelentz (16 March 1840 – 11 December 1893) was a German general linguist and sinologist. His \"Chinesische Grammatik\" (1881), according to a critic, \"remains until today recognized as probably the finest overall grammatical survey of the Classical Chinese language to date.\" (Harbsmeier 1995:333)\n\nGabelentz was born in Poschwitz, near Altenburg, Saxe-Altenburg. His father was the more renowned minister and linguist Hans Conon von der Gabelentz, an authority of the Manchu language. Gabelentz taught himself Dutch, Italian and Chinese during his gymnasium years.\n\nFrom 1860 to 1864, following his father's steps, he studied law, administration, and linguistics at Jena. In 1864 he entered the civil service of Saxony at Dresden. He continued his study of oriental languages at Leipzig. He married Alexandra von Rothkirch in 1872. His father Hans died at the family castle of Lemnitz in 1874.\n\nGabelentz earned his doctoral from Dresden in 1876 with a translation of Zhou Dunyi's \"Taiji Tushuo\" (太極圖說 \"Explaining taiji\"). In 1878, a Professorship of Far Eastern Languages, the first of its kind in the German-speaking world, was created at the University of Leipzig, and Gabelentz was invited to fill it. Among his students were the German sinologists Wilhelm Grube (1855–1908) and Johann Jakob Maria de Groot (1854–1921), the Austrian Sinologist Arthur von Rosthorn (1862–1945), the Japanologist Karl Florenz (1865–1939), the archaeologist Max Uhle (1856–1944), the Tibetologist Heinrich Wenzel and the art historian Friedrich Wilhelm Karl Müller (1863–1930).\n\nIn 1889, he divorced, and switched to the University of Berlin. In 1891, he remarried, and published \"Die Sprachwissenschaft\" (\"Linguistics\"). His \"Handbuch zur Aufnahme fremder Sprachen\" followed one year later.\n\nGabelentz criticized the Beijing dialect which dominated the linguistic scene in China. A more suitable Chinese dialect in Gabelentz's view for science was the Nanjing dialect rather than Beijing.\nOnly in recent times has the northern dialect, pek-kuān-hoá, in the form [spoken] in the capital, kīng-hoá, begun to strive for general acceptance, and the struggle seems to be decided in its favor. It is preferred by the officials and studied by the European diplomats. Scholarship must not follow this practise. The Peking dialect is phonetically the poorest of all dialects and therefore has the most homophones. This is why it is most unsuitable for scientific purposes.\n\nGabelentz died in Berlin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917003", "title": "Guy Walters", "text": "Guy Walters\n\nGuy Edward Barham Walters (born 8 August 1971) is a British author, historian, and journalist. He is the author and editor of nine books on the Second World War, including war thrillers, and a historical analysis of the Berlin Olympic Games.\n\nWalters was born in Kensington, London, on 8 August 1971. He is a descendant of Richard Harris Barham and Edward Augustus Bond. He was educated at Cheam School, Eton College, Westfield College, University of London (now part of Queen Mary, University of London), and is studying for a PhD in history at Newcastle University. His thesis is on the postwar activities of Werner Naumann.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2000, he worked at \"The Times\". His first book, \"The Traitor\", was published in 2002, and concerns the British Free Corps, a British unit of the Waffen-SS. \"The Leader\" (2003) is set in a Britain ruled by Oswald Mosley as a Fascist dictator. \"The Occupation\" (2004) takes place during the German occupation of the Channel Islands. \"The Colditz Legacy\" (2005) is set in Colditz Castle during the war and the 1970s.\n\nWith James Owen, he edited \"The Voice of War\" in 2004, a collection of Second World War memoirs. In 2006 he published \"Berlin Games\", a history of the 1936 Berlin Olympics, which was shortlisted for the 2006 William Hill Sports Book of the Year and the 2007 Outstanding Book of the Year by the North American Society for the Sociology of Sport.\n\nIn 2009, Walters published \"Hunting Evil\", a history of how the Nazi war criminals escaped after the war, and how they were brought to justice.\n\n\"Frustrated at the enormous amount of junk history around, Guy sees it as his personal mission to wage war on ignorance and misconceptions about the past.\". He was scathing about the Hitler conspiracy book and film \"Grey Wolf\" describing it as \"2,000 per cent rubbish\" when the book was published. Walters added: \"It's an absolute disgrace. There's no substance to it at all. It appeals to the deluded fantasies of conspiracy theorists and has no place whatsoever in historical research.\"\n\nWalters has raised questions regarding the veracity of Denis Avey's claims to have smuggled himself into Auschwitz and about fraudulent Holocaust memoirs generally, and has questioned the level of acclaim given to Mary Seacole.\n\nIn June 2013, he was appointed to the position of lecturer in modern British history at the New College of the Humanities in London.\n\nHe is a contributor to the Jeremy Vine BBC2 show. \n\nWalters lives in Wiltshire with his wife Annabel Venning and their two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917015", "title": "Taxodium distichum", "text": "Taxodium distichum\n\nTaxodium distichum (bald cypress) is a deciduous conifer in the family Cupressaceae. It is native to the southeastern United States. Hardy and tough, this tree adapts to a wide range of soil types, whether wet, dry, or swampy. It is noted for the russet-red fall color of its lacy needles. \n\nThis plant has some cultivated varieties and is often used in groupings in public spaces. Common names include bald cypress, baldcypress, swamp cypress, white cypress, tidewater red cypress, gulf cypress and red cypress.\n\n\"Taxodium distichum\" is a large, slow-growing, and long-lived tree. It typically grows to heights of and has a trunk diameter of . \n\nThe main trunk is often surrounded by cypress knees. The bark is grayish brown to reddish brown, thin, and fibrous with a stringy texture; it has a vertically, interwoven pattern of shallow ridges and narrow furrows. \n\nThe needle-like leaves are long and are simple, alternate, green and linear, with entire margins. In autumn, the leaves turn yellow or copper red. The bald cypress drops its needles each winter and then grows a new set in spring. \n\nThis species is monoecious, with male and female flowers on a single plant forming on slender, tassel-like structures near the edge of branchlets. The tree flowers in April and the seeds ripen in October. The male and female strobili are produced from buds formed in late autumn, with pollination in early winter, and mature in about 12 months. Male cones emerge on panicles that are inches long. Female cones are round, resinous and green while young. They then turn hard and then brown as the tree matures. They are globular and in diameter. They have from 20 to 30 spirally arranged, four-sided scales, each bearing one, two, or rarely three triangular seeds. Each cone contains 20 to 40 large seeds. The cones disintegrate at maturity to release the seeds. The seeds are long, the largest of any species of Cupressaceae, and are produced every year, with heavy crops every 3–5 years. The seedlings have three to nine, but usually six, cotyledons each. \n\nThe bald cypress grows in full sunlight to partial shade. This species grows best in wet or well-drained soil but can tolerate dry soil. It is moderately able to grow in aerosols of salt water. The cones are often consumed by wildlife.\n\nThis tree is suitable for cultivation in light (sandy), medium (loamy) and heavy (clay) soils. It does well in acid, neutral and alkaline soils and can grow in very alkaline and saline soils. It can grow in semi-shade (light woodland) or no shade. It prefers moist or wet soil and can grow in water. It can tolerate atmospheric pollution.\n\nThe tallest known specimen, near Williamsburg, Virginia, is 44.11 m (145 ft) tall, and the stoutest known, in the Real County near Leaky, Texas, has a diameter at breast height of 475 in (39 ft). The oldest known living specimen, found along the Black River in North Carolina, is at least 2,624 years old, rendering it the oldest living tree in eastern North America.\n\nThe closely related \"Taxodium ascendens\" (pond cypress) is treated by some botanists as a distinct species, while others classify it as merely a variety of bald cypress, as \"Taxodium distichum\" var. \"imbricatum\" (Nutt.) Croom. It differs in shorter leaves borne on erect shoots, and in ecology, being largely confined to low-nutrient blackwater habitats. A few authors also treat \"Taxodium mucronatum\" as a variety of bald cypress, as \"T. distichum\" var. \"mexicanum\" Gordon, thereby considering the genus as comprising only one species.\n\nThe native range extends from southeastern New Jersey south to Florida and west to East Texas and southeastern Oklahoma, and also inland up the Mississippi River. Ancient bald cypress forests, with some trees more than 1,700 years old, once dominated swamps in the Southeast. The range had been believed to extended north only as far as Delaware, but researchers have now found a natural forest on the Cape May Peninsula in southern New Jersey. The species can also be found growing outside its natural native range. The largest remaining old-growth stands are at Corkscrew Swamp Sanctuary, near Naples, Florida, and in the Three Sisters tract along eastern North Carolina's Black River. The Corkscrew trees are around 500 years of age, and some exceed 40 m in height. The Black River trees were cored by dendrochronologist David Stahle from the University of Arkansas. He found that some began growing as early as 364 AD. \n\nThis species is native to humid climates where annual precipitation ranges from about in Texas to along the Gulf Coast. Although it grows best in warm climates, the natural northern limit of the species is not due to a lack of cold tolerance, but to specific reproductive requirements: further north, regeneration is prevented by ice damage to seedlings. Larger trees are able to tolerate much lower temperatures and lower humidity.\n\nIn 2012 scuba divers discovered an underwater cypress forest several miles off the coast of Mobile, Alabama, in 60 feet of water. The forest contains trees that could not be dated with radiocarbon methods, indicating that they are more than 50,000 years old and thus most likely lived in the early glacial interval of the last ice age. The cypress forest is well preserved, and when samples are cut they still smell like fresh cypress. A team, which has not yet published its results in a peer-reviewed journal, is studying the site. One possibility is that hurricane Katrina exposed the grove of bald cypress, which had been protected under ocean floor sediments.\n\nThe bald cypress is monoecious. Male and female strobili mature in one growing season from buds formed the previous year. The male catkins are about in diameter and are borne in slender, purplish, drooping clusters long that are conspicuous during the winter on this deciduous conifer. Pollen is shed in March and April. Female conelets are found singly or in clusters of two or three. The globose cones turn from green to brownish-purple as they mature from October to December. The cones are in diameter and consist of 9 to 15 four-sided scales that break away irregularly after maturity. Each scale can bear two (rarely three) irregular, triangular seeds with thick, horny, warty coats and projecting flanges. The number of seeds per cone averages 16 and ranges from 2 to 34. Cleaned seeds number from about 5,600 to 18,430 per kg (2,540 to 8,360 per lb).\n\nSome seeds are produced every year, and good seed crops occur at three- to five-year intervals. At maturity, the cone scales with their resin-coated seeds adhering to them, or sometimes entire cones, drop to the water or ground. This drop of mature seeds is often hastened by squirrels, which eat bald cypress seeds, but usually drop several scales with undamaged seeds still attached to each cone they pick. Floodwaters spread the scales or cones along streams and are the most important means of seed dissemination.\n\nGermination is epigeal. Under swamp conditions, germination generally takes place on a sphagnum moss or a wet-muck seedbed. Seeds will not germinate under water, but some will remain viable for 30 months under water. By contrast, seeds usually fail to germinate on better drained soils because of the lack of surface water. Thus, a soil saturated but not flooded for a period of one to three months after seedfall is required for germination.\nAfter germination, seedlings must grow fast enough to keep at least part of their crowns above floodwaters for most of the growing season. Bald cypress seedlings can endure partial shading, but require overhead light for good growth. Seedlings in swamps often reach heights of their first year. Growth is checked when a seedling is completely submerged by flooding, and prolonged submergence kills the seedling.\n\nIn nurseries, \"Taxodium\" seeds show an apparent internal dormancy that can be overcome by various treatments, usually including cold stratification or submerging in water for 60 days. Nursery beds are sown in spring with pretreated seeds or in fall with untreated seeds. Seedlings usually reach in height during their first (and usually only) year in the nursery. Average size of 1-0 nursery-grown seedlings in a seed source test including 72 families was tall and in diameter.\n\nControl of competing vegetation may be necessary for a year or more for bald cypress planted outside of swamps. Five years after planting on a harrowed and bedded, poorly drained site in Florida, survival was high, but heights had increased only , probably because of heavy herbaceous competition. Seedlings grown in a crawfish pond in Louisiana, where weed control and soil moisture were excellent through June, averaged and diameter at breast heigh after five years. However, a replicate of the same sources planted in an old soybean field, where weed control and soil moisture were poor, resulted in the same diameter, but a smaller average seedling height of . When planted in a residential yard and weeded and watered, they averaged tall three years later.\n\nBald cypress is one of the few conifer species that sprouts. Thrifty sprouts are generally produced from stumps of young trees, but trees up to 60 years old also send up healthy sprouts if the trees are cut during the fall or winter. However, survival of these sprouts is often poor, and those that live are usually poorly shaped and do not make quality sawtimber trees. Stumps of trees up to 200 years old may also sprout, but the sprouts are not as vigorous and are more subject to wind damage as the stump decays. In the only report on the rooting of bald cypress cuttings found in the literature, cuttings from trees five years old rooted better than those from older trees.\n\nThe seeds remain viable for less than one year, and are dispersed in two ways. One is by water: the seeds float and move on water until flooding recedes or the cone is deposited on shore. The second is by wildlife: squirrels eat seeds, but often drop some scales from the cones they harvest. Seeds do not germinate under water and rarely germinate on well-drained soils; seedlings normally become established on continuously saturated, but not flooded, soils for one to three months. After germination, seedlings must grow quickly to escape floodwaters; they often reach a height of 20–75 cm (up to 100 cm in fertilized nursery conditions) in their first year. Seedlings die if inundated for more than about two to four weeks. Natural regeneration is therefore prevented on sites that are always flooded during the growing season. Although vigorous saplings and stump sprouts can produce viable seed, most specimens do not produce seed until they are about 30 years old. In good conditions, bald cypress grows fairly fast when young, then more slowly with age. Trees have been measured to reach 3 m in five years, 21 m in 41 years, and 36 m in height in 96 years; height growth has largely ceased by the time the trees are 200 years old. Some individuals can live over 1,000 years. Determination of the age of an old tree may be difficult because of frequent missing or false rings of stemwood caused by variable and stressful growing environments.\nBald cypress trees growing in swamps have a peculiarity of growth called cypress knees. These are woody projections from the root system project above the ground or water. Their function was once thought to be to provide oxygen to the roots, which grow in the low dissolved oxygen waters typical of a swamp (as in mangroves). However, evidence for this is scant; in fact, roots of swamp-dwelling specimens whose knees are removed do not decrease in oxygen content and the trees continue to thrive. Another more likely function is structural support and stabilization. Bald cypress trees growing on flood-prone sites tend to form buttressed bases, but trees grown on drier sites may lack this feature. Buttressed bases and a strong, intertwined root system allow them to resist very strong winds; even hurricanes rarely overturn them.\n\nMany agents damage \"T. distichum\" trees. The main damaging (in some cases lethal) agent is the fungus \"Lauriliella taxodii\", which causes a brown pocket rot known as \"pecky cypress.\" It attacks the heartwood of living trees, usually from the crown down to the roots. A few other fungi attack the sapwood and the heartwood of the tree, but they do not usually cause serious damage. Insects such as the cypress flea beetle (\"Systena marginalis\") and the bald cypress leafroller (\"Archips goyerana\") can seriously damage trees by destroying leaves, cones or bark. Nutrias also clip and unroot young bald cypress seedlings, sometimes killing a whole plantation in a short amount of time.\n\nIn 2002, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources identified \"T. distichum\" as a state protected plant with the status of Threatened. Globally, the species is listed as of Least Concern by the IUCN.\n\nThe bald cypress is hardy and can be planted in hardiness zones 4 through 10 in the US. The species is a popular ornamental tree that is cultivated for its light, feathery foliage and orangey brown to dull red autumnal color. In cultivation it thrives on a wide range of soils, including well-drained sites where it would not grow naturally because juvenile seedlings cannot compete with other vegetation. Cultivation is successful far north of its native range, even to southern Canada. It is also commonly planted in Europe, Asia, and other temperate and subtropical locales. It does, however, require hot summers for good growth. When planted in locales with the cool summers of oceanic climates, growth is healthy but very slow; some specimens in northeastern England have only grown to 4–5 m tall in 50 years and do not produce cones. One of the oldest specimens in Europe was planted in the 1900s in the Arboretum de Pézanin in Burgundy, France.\n\nBald cypress has great merchantable yields. In virgin stands, yields from 112–196 m³/ha were common, and some stands may have exceeded 1,000 m³/ha. The lumber is valuable for building construction, fence posts, planking in boats, river pilings, doors, blinds, flooring, shingles, garden boxes, caskets, interior trim and cabinetry. The odorless wood, which closely resembles that of other \"Cupressus\" species, has long been valued for its resistance to water. Still usable prehistoric wood is often found in swamps as far north as New Jersey, and occasionally as far north as Connecticut, although it is more common in the southeastern states. This partially mineralized wood is harvested from swamps in the southeastern states, and is greatly prized for special uses such as for carvings. The fungus \"Lauriliella taxodii\" causes a specific form of the wood called \"pecky cypress\", which is used for decorative wall paneling.\n\nThe bald cypress was designated the official state tree of Louisiana in 1963. Some consider it to be a symbol of the southern swamps of the United States.\n\nThe bald cypress was used by Native Americans to create coffins, homes, drums and canoes. Joshua D. Brown, the first settler of Kerrville, Texas, made his living producing shingles from bald cypress trees that grew along the Guadalupe River of the Texas Hill Country. Beginning in the early 1990s, the bald cypress was harvested heavily to make paneling, mulch and shingles. \n\n"}
{"id": "1917016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917016", "title": "Michelle Ang", "text": "Michelle Ang\n\nMichelle Ang (born 17 October 1983) is a New Zealand film and television actress based in New York City. In 2016, Ang was nominated for an Emmy for her work on \"\".\n\nAng was born 17 October 1983, in Christchurch, to Indonesian Chinese parents who had emigrated to New Zealand. Ang has completed studies at Victoria University of Wellington for a double degree, a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration (B.C.A.) in Accounting with Commercial Law and Bachelor of Science in Chemistry. Ang was a talented ballet dancer when she was younger, and performed in \"The Nutcracker\", \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", and \"Romeo and Juliet\" with the Royal New Zealand Ballet.\n\nAng made her film debut in \"Futile Attraction\". Ang also appeared in a series of low-budget New Zealand short films including \"Forbidden Fury\" in 2004. Her most recent film credit was on \"No.2\", directed by Toa Fraser and nominated for Audience Choice Awards at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nAng got her start in television at a young age through the hit family series \"McDonald's Young Entertainers\". Here, she got to show her skills at singing and dancing, much like the \"Mickey Mouse Club\" show on US television. She is best known for her role as Lori Lee in the Australian television soap opera \"Neighbours\", in which she was a major character in 2002 – 2003, and guest-starred in 2004. Also in 2004, she auditioned for the Cho Chang role in \"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire\", but in the end the role was given to Katie Leung. Before that she played Tai-San in the New Zealand post-apocalyptic drama \"The Tribe\", present in the core cast from 1999 to 2001, and featuring in the final episodes of the 2002 series. Ang also guest starred in the final 2 episodes of \"\" as Akemi. She played the role of Tracy Hong in seasons 1 and 2 of the New Zealand TV series \"Outrageous Fortune\" in 2005 and 2006.\n\nIn 2007, Ang appeared in the American television drama, \"South of Nowhere\".\n\nIn 2012, Ang features in the MTV series \"Underemployed\" as an aspiring writer who has to settle for working at a donut shop.\n\nIn 2015, Ang starred in the web series \"\" as Alex, a passenger caught on a flight at the beginning of the zombie apocalypse, and went on to join the main cast in the main series \"Fear the Walking Dead\".\n\nAng has named \"The Power of Now\" by Eckhart Tolle as the book that has most influenced her.\n\nAng was nominated for a Logie at the Australian television awards, for most popular new female talent for her role in \"Neighbours\".\n\nAng was one of the compères for the 2005 Chinese New Year Festival in Wellington, held on Saturday 5 February.\n\nAng received an Emmy nomination for her work on \"\".\n\nAng welcomed her first child, a son called Koda, with her partner Alex in November 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917020", "title": "Production diary", "text": "Production diary\n\nA production diary is a live account of the making of a film for promotional purposes in the form of a video podcast. Production diaries follow different aspects of movie production while they are happening. Web-based production diaries are a new way for film makers to publicize their productions as they are being created, rather than when they are released (the old-model of film marketing).\n\nExamples of current web-based production diaries include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1917027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917027", "title": "Client (band)", "text": "Client (band)\n\nClient (frequently stylised as CLIEИT) are an English electronic music group from London, formed in 2002. They are most popular in Germany where they have had limited commercial success. They typically combine airline hostess uniforms or shiny fetish fashion outfits with glamour-girl aesthetics and harsh electronics to create a sound reminiscent of early forays into electronic sound manipulation and new wave. Their uniforms have become their trademark.\n\nThe original band members were formerly known only anonymously as Client A and Client B, to the extent that their faces were not shown on any publicity photos; it has since been revealed that they are Kate Holmes (as Client A) and Sarah Blackwood (Client B). Holmes, formerly of Frazier Chorus and Technique, later started the fashion label Client London, and is married to Alan McGee (founder of Creation Records and discoverer of Oasis). Blackwood is the lead singer of Dubstar.\n\nIn late 2005 a new member, Client E, joined the group. This is Emily Mann, who was a contestant on the Channel 5 reality show \"Make Me a Supermodel\", an artist, and an active DJ, usually performing as Emily Strange. Client E left the band in June 2007. In November 2007 Charlotte Hatherley joined the band as Client C, to fill the vacant role of bassist on their European and Scandinavian tours.\n\nClient was the first act signed to Depeche Mode member Andy Fletcher's record label, Toast Hawaii. They have toured with Depeche Mode and Erasure.\n\nClient have collaborated with several high-profile musicians and directors. Their video for \"Pornography\" was directed by French director Jamie Deliessche from video production company Schmooze. It features Carl Barât (of The Libertines and Dirty Pretty Things) on vocals. The song \"Down to the Underground\" features Pete Doherty, also of The Libertines, and frontman of Babyshambles. The song \"Overdrive\" features Martin L. Gore of Depeche Mode. The song \"Where's the Rock and Roll Gone\" features Tim Burgess of The Charlatans. Client have collaborated with Die Krupps, Moonbootica and Replica on selected tracks and also have done a special duet, \"Suicide Sister\" with Douglas McCarthy of Nitzer Ebb.\n\nIt was announced in October 2006 that Client had parted ways with the Toast Hawaii label. In November 2006, Client signed with Out of Line in German-speaking Europe, SubSpace Communications in Scandinavia, Metropolis Records in North America, Noiselab in Latin America and their own label Loser Friendly Records in the UK and Ireland.\n\nIt was confirmed in December 2010 that Blackwood had left the band and a new member was being recruited to front the band. In July 2011, Holmes announced that Xan Tyler—with whom Holmes formed the synthpop duo Technique in the mid-1990s—would take over live lead vocals for the band, replacing Blackwood. However, this never came to fruition.\n\nOn 4 September 2013, Client debuted the music video for their single \"You Can Dance\", which introduced new member Nicole Thomas, known as Client N. Their fifth studio album, \"Authority\", was released on 21 March 2014 on Out of Line Music.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917028", "title": "Water chestnut", "text": "Water chestnut\n\nWater chestnut may refer to either of two plants (both sometimes used in Chinese cuisine):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917029", "title": "Camp Collins", "text": "Camp Collins\n\nCamp Collins (also known as the Fort Collins Military Reservation) was a 19th-century outpost of the United States Army in the Colorado Territory. The fort was commissioned in the summer of 1862 to protect the Overland Trail from attacks by Native Americans in a conflict that later became known as the Colorado War. Located along the Cache la Poudre River in Larimer County, it was relocated from its initial location near Laporte after a devastating flood. Its second location downstream on the Poudre was used until 1866 and became the nucleus around which the City of Fort Collins was founded.\n\nThe camp was commissioned on July 22, 1862 and later named for Lt. Col. William O. Collins, colonel of the 11th Ohio Cavalry and the commandant of Fort Laramie, the headquarters of the U.S. Army's West Sub-district of the District of Nebraska. The initial camp at Laporte was constructed and manned by Company B, 9th Kansas Cavalry. The mission of the fort was to protect the emigrant trains and Overland Stage lines on the Overland Trail from the growing hostile attacks of the Plains Indians. The growing hostility of the Lakota to white encroachment further north had forced the temporary relocation of the Emigrant Trail from the North Platte River to the South Platte valley. Although relations with the Arapaho and Cheyenne in the vicinity of the camp were largely peaceful, the hostility of the Pawnee and other tribes on the Colorado Eastern Plains towards white settlement prompted the Army to establish the fort as a precautionary measure to protect the trail.\n\nThe camp was founded near the existing settlement of Laporte (originally Colona) that had been founded four years earlier in 1858 by Antoine Janis and other homesteaders from Fort Laramie. Although the region was not part of the Colorado Gold Rush that erupted the following year, the fertile lands of the Colorado Piedmont along the Poudre attracted a growing number of homesteaders in the mid-1860s. The Arapaho continued to live in villages along the Poudre near the mountains, coexisting peacefully with the settlers, despite the loss of their hunting grounds on the eastern plains in 1861 by treaty with the U.S. government.\n\nDuring its first two years, the fort remained a somewhat peaceful outpost. The fort saw little direct action during its commission and was never stockaded with walls. In the fall of 1862, the 9th Kansas Cavalry was relieved by a detachment of the 1st Colorado Volunteer Cavalry under Captain David L. Hardy. The following July 1863, Hardy and Company M left the fort to pursue hostile Utes in the mountains, leaving the camp in control of Company B of the 1st Colorado under Lt. George W. Hawkins. In April 1864, Company B was ordered to Camp Sanborn to bolster the garrison there, leaving a void that was filled in mid-May 1864 by the arrival of Company F of the 11th Ohio Cavalry, commanded by William H. Evans.\n\nThe most significant event its history occurred within a month after the arrival of the 11th Ohio. The event was not a battle but the flooding on the Poudre River, swollen from spring snow melt, in early June 1864. The flood destroyed the camp nearly completely, with many of the soldiers barely escaping with their lives.\n\nThe obvious unsuitability of the site for future use prompted Evans to order Lieutenant Joseph Hannah to begin scouting for an alternative site. Joseph Mason, a local settler, came forth with a proposal for a new site adjacent to his own claim four miles downstream on the Poudre, on a section of high ground on the south bank of the river. The site offered protection from flooding, had a prominent viewshed of the terrain, and was directly on the \"Denver Road\", the section of the Overland Trail through the county. The site offered the additional benefit of being removed from the saloons and other temptations in Laporte.\n\nOn August 20, 1864, Colonel Collins issued Special Order No. 1 relocating the camp to the site suggested by Mason. The new post, by then known as \"Fort Collins\", was fully occupied by October 22 and the Laporte site was completely abandoned. The new site saw as little direct action as the original site, but its proximity to the growing community of new homesteaders, as well as its location on the Denver Road, made it increasingly the center of local transportation and commerce.\n\nThe site itself is in present-day Old Town in Fort Collins, between Jefferson Street (the old Denver Road) and the Poudre River. The actual military reservation encompassed an expansive territory that stretches several miles south of the Poudre, but the actual campgrounds were confined to a small area in present-day Old Town. The 300 foot square parade ground, standard for forts of its type, was centered at the present intersection of Willow and Linden Streets, approximately one block from the river. The site included the standard configuration of barracks and mess halls for enlisted men, an officer's quarters, camp headquarters, guard houses, storehouses, and stables. The buildings were of log construction typically for that era and region. A city-authorized sign near the intersection provides a guide to the location of the original camp buildings, none of which survive today.\n\nThe first commercial buildings were built on the southwest side of the Denver Road (Jefferson Street), including the two-story inn owned by early settler \"Auntie\" Elizabeth Stone. The structure was relocated in the 20th century to the grounds of the Fort Collins Museum.\n\nThe subsiding of the conflict with Native Americans, in particular their complete removal from the Colorado Territory after 1865, increasingly made the fort irrelevant. In September 1866 the post was completely abandoned and was officially decommissioned the following year by order of General William T. Sherman.\n\nAlmost immediately, local business owners and residents stepped into the vacuum left by the abandonment, claiming the land for commercial purposes, despite a clerical error by the Army that kept the land officially in government hands until 1872. By 1869, Stone and Henry C. Peterson constructed the first flour mill on the south bank of the Poudre, as well as 1.5-mile (2.5 km) mill race to supply water power. The first white child in Fort Collins, Agnes Mason, was born in the former camp headquarters on October 31, 1867. In 1870 the Colorado Territorial Legislature designated the fledgling town as the location for the Agricultural College (present-day Colorado State University).\n\nThe military reservation was officially relinquished on May 15, 1872 by presidential order, officially opening the land to settlement claims. The townsite of Fort Collins was officially platted on the former site of the camp in January 1873. The original plat includes all the \"tilted\" streets in present-day Old Town north of Mountain Avenue and east of College Avenue. The town grew rapidly as an agricultural center in the 1870s, and the town plat was rapidly expanded by the founding of the Fort Collins Agricultural Colony in 1873.\n\nCamp Collins History- \n\n"}
{"id": "1917033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917033", "title": "Kruonis Pumped Storage Plant", "text": "Kruonis Pumped Storage Plant\n\nKruonis Pumped Storage Plant (the KPSP) is located near Kruonis, Lithuania, east of Kaunas. Its main purpose is to provide grid energy storage. It operates in conjunction with the Kaunas Hydroelectric Power Plant. During periods of low demand, usually at night, Kruonis PSHP raises water from the lower Kaunas reservoir to the upper one using cheap surplus energy. The station is designed to have an installed capacity of 1,600 MW but only four 225 MW generators are currently operational. With a fully filled upper reservoir the plant can generate 900 MW for about 12 hours.\n\nThe KPSP uses hydro-resources of artificial water pools existing at different geographical levels.\n\nThe electricity from this power plant is supplied to a 330 kV electricity line to Elektrėnai, where the largest fossil fuel plant in Lithuania is operating, and Kaunas. \nDuring a surplus of electricity generation, the KPSP uses the surplus electricity to pump water from the lower pool to the upper pool.\n\nDuring an electricity output deficit, the Kruonis PSP operates as a regular hydro power plant, letting water flow from the upper pool to the lower pool to generate additional electricity. With a fully filled upper reservoir the plant can generate 900 MW for about 12 hours. Kruonis Plant is the only pumped-storage station in the Baltic states.\n\nThe Kruonis PSP Industrial Park and Kruonis Technology Park were created as the location, infrastructure and low electricity price are attractive for data centers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917062", "title": "Allan Melvin", "text": "Allan Melvin\n\nAllan John Melvin (February 18, 1923 – January 17, 2008) was an American character actor, voice actor and impressionist, who was cast in hundreds of television episodes from the 1950s to the early 1990s, often appearing in recurring roles on various series. Some of those roles and series include portraying various characters on \"The Andy Griffith Show\", as real estate salesman Pete Dudley in \"My Favorite Martian\", as Corporal Henshaw on \"The Phil Silvers Show\", Sergeant Hacker on \"Gomer Pyle, USMC\", Alice's boyfriend Sam the Butcher on \"The Brady Bunch\", and as Archie Bunker's friend Barney Hefner on both \"All in the Family\" and \"Archie Bunker’s Place\".\n\nMelvin was born in Kansas City, Missouri, to Marie and Richard Melvin but lived part of his childhood in New York City with his paternal grandparents, Helen (née Campbell) and Frank Melvin. Allan attended Columbia University, and after his graduation he served in the United States Navy during World War II. In 1944, he married Amalia Faustina Sestero in New York City.\n\nWhile working at a job in the sound effects department of NBC Radio, he did a nightclub act and appeared and won on the \"Arthur Godfrey’s Talent Scouts\" radio show. While appearing on Broadway in \"Stalag 17\", he got his break into television by getting the role of Corporal Steve Henshaw on the popular \"The Phil Silvers Show\" program. U.S. Television fans of this era usually best remember his role as Henshaw, Sgt. Bilko’s right-hand man on that show. “He was proudest of that show,” Amalia Melvin said. “I think the camaraderie of all those guys made it such a pleasant way to work. They were so relaxed.”\n\nDuring this period, in addition to his role on \"The Phil Silvers Show\", Melvin was often cast in slightly loud, occasionally abrasive, but generally friendly second banana roles. Melvin was also adept at “tough guy” roles; in an example of his range as an actor, one episode of \"The Phil Silvers Show\" featured Melvin doing a recognizable impersonation of Humphrey Bogart.\n\nIn the 1960s, Melvin worked extensively at CBS for Sheldon Leonard and Aaron Ruben. He played Staff Sgt. Charlie Hacker who was Sgt. Vince Carter’s rival for four seasons on \"Gomer Pyle, USMC\". He also made eight appearances on \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\". He also provided the voices of cartoon character Magilla Gorilla, the lion Drooper on \"The Banana Splits Adventure Hour\", archvillain Tyrone in \"The Secret Lives of Waldo Kitty\" and Bluto on \"The All New Popeye Hour\". Melvin also made eight guest appearances on \"The Andy Griffith Show\" in eight different roles, usually as heavies. He also made three guest appearances on \"Perry Mason\" in various roles, including reporter Bert Kannon in the 1966 episode, \"The Case of the Sausalito Sunrise.\" Also in 1966 Allan played the space enforcer on the series \"Lost in Space\", in the episode “West Of Mars”.\n\nMelvin is remembered for supporting roles on two popular 1970s sitcoms. He played Sam Franklin, the owner of a local butcher shop and boyfriend of the Brady's housekeeper Alice (played by Ann B. Davis) on \"The Brady Bunch\", and Barney Hefner, Archie Bunker’s neighbor and friend on \"All in the Family\". In other contributions to 1970s pop culture, he appeared as a Mel’s Diner patron on \"Alice\" and worked as a voice artist (under the name “Al Melvin”). He provided several characters’ voices for the TV show \"H.R. Pufnstuf\" and the voice of Prince Thun of the Lion Men on \"The New Adventures of Flash Gordon\".\n\nSome of his most prolific work was in television commercials, for products as diverse as Kellogg's Sugar Frosted Flakes and Remington electric razors. In the latter commercial, he sang a few bars of Frank Loesser’s song “I Believe in You” with a modified lyric. He was also featured as Al the Plumber on Liquid-Plumr drain opener commercials for fifteen years.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Melvin appeared as a regular in \"Archie Bunker's Place\", in which he reprised the now more important role of Barney Hefner. When the series ended in 1983, Melvin’s work was exclusively devoted to cartoon voice-overs. His voice acting career continued until 1994, with \"Scooby-Doo! in Arabian Nights\" being his final voice work (again as Magilla Gorilla) before retiring.\n\nAllan Melvin died of cancer on January 17, 2008, aged 84, and was buried at Westwood Memorial Cemetery in Southern California. Melvin is buried just yards from his TV best friend Carroll O'Connor, who played Archie Bunker in \"All In The Family\". Coincidentally, later the same year, famed 1950s pin-up Bettie Page was interred in the grave beside Melvin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917065", "title": "The Dawn and Drew Show", "text": "The Dawn and Drew Show\n\nThe Dawn and Drew Show is a podcast starring and produced by a married couple, Dawn Miceli (born in West Allis, Wisconsin) and Drew Domkus (formerly of the Scaterd Few). The couple moved back to their farmhouse in Wayne, Wisconsin after being robbed and nearly killed in their home in Playa Cocles, Costa Rica. While they regroup and work up a game plan, Dawn Miceli continues to tour with the band Rasputina while Drew tries to learn how to make iPhone apps.\n\nThe show is described as \"two ex gutter punks fall in love, buy a retired farm in Wisconsin and tell the world their dirty secrets... always profane, rarely profound.\" Dawn and Drew live with many pets including dogs, a cat, one sugar glider. The couple used to own Echo Books and Chocolate Lounge in Playa Cocles, Costa Rica.\n\nThe shows are spontaneous, although some trends have developed. These often entail Dawn singing, or the signature sign-off \"good night, Inkernet.\" Dawn will often tell a peculiar story; Drew often comments on these stories, getting Dawn sidetracked, at which point Dawn emasculates Drew. Listeners are invited to call their audio comment line at (206) 666-3825 (which, on an alphanumeric touchtone phone, spells the oft-mentioned \"MOM-FUCK\"), to leave a voice message, and these messages are then played at the end of each show. Family members of both hosts have made appearances on the show.\n\nTheir show was one of the first to become part of Adam Curry's PodShow network, which at one point carried Dawn and Drew over Sirius Satellite Radio. In September 2008, on show 800, Dawn and Drew revealed that contract renegotiations with Mevio (formerly PodShow) fell through, and were going to be independent. Without warning, Mevio shut off access to their webserver.\n\nIn 2010, Dawn and Drew's production company, D&D Productions, produced the concert/tour video \"Under the Corset\" directed by Dawn about the band Rasputina.\n\nIn 2014, Dawn directed \"Unmasked!\", a touring video about the band Captured! by Robots.\n\nDawn and Drew have been announced as inductees into the 2016 Academy of Podcasters Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917068", "title": "Battle of Adairsville", "text": "Battle of Adairsville\n\nThe Battle of Adairsville also known as the Battle of Cassville, was a battle of the Atlanta Campaign fought during the American Civil War on May 17, 1864, just northeast of Rome, Georgia. The brief engagement was a Confederate delaying action that allowed General Joseph E. Johnston to bait a trap for the Union army at Cassville.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Resaca, May 13–15, General Joseph E. Johnston's army retreated southward while Major General William Tecumseh Sherman pursued. Failing to find a good defensive position south of Calhoun, Georgia, Johnston continued to Adairsville, while the Confederate cavalry fought a skillful rearguard action and kept Sherman away from Atlanta.\n\nOnce across the Oostanaula River, Johnston sought to make a stand and draw the Federals into a costly assault. He expected to find favorable terrain near Calhoun, but in this he was disappointed and during the night of May 16–17 he led the Confederates southward toward Adairsville. Sherman followed, dividing his forces into three columns, and advancing on a broad front. There were skirmishes all along the route, but the main bodies were not engaged.\n\nTwo miles north of Adairsville Oliver Otis Howard and the Union IV Corps began skirmishing with entrenched units of William J. Hardee's Confederate corps. The 44th Illinois and 24th Wisconsin infantry regiments led by Maj. Arthur MacArthur, Jr. (father of Douglas MacArthur) attacked Benjamin F. Cheatham's division and suffered heavy losses. The rest of Howard's corps prepared for battle but further attacks were called off by General Thomas. At Adairsville, Johnston again hoped to find a position in which he could give battle but there too the terrain was unsuitable for further defense and the Confederate commander was forced to continue his withdrawal. As he fell back, however, Johnston devised a strategy that he hoped would lead to the destruction of a part of Sherman's forces. There were two roads leading south from Adairsville—one south to Kingston, the other southeast to Cassville. It seemed likely that Sherman would divide his armies so as to use both roads. This would give Johnston the opportunity to attack one column before the other could come to its aid.\n\nWhen the Southerners abandoned Adairsville during the night of May 17–18, Johnston sent William J. Hardee's Corps to Kingston, while he fell back toward Cassville with the rest of his army. He hoped that Sherman would believe most of the Southerners to be in Kingston and concentrate the bulk of his forces there. Hardee would then hold off the Northerners at Kingston while Johnston, with Leonidas Polk and John Bell Hood, destroyed the smaller Federal column at Cassville.\n\nSherman reacted as Johnston hoped, ordering James B. McPherson and the bulk of George Henry Thomas's army toward Kingston while sending only John Schofield and one corps of Thomas' army along the road to Cassville. On the morning of May 19, Johnston ordered Hood to march along a country road a mile or so east of the Adairsville-Cassville Road and form his corps for battle facing west. While Polk attacked the head of the Federal column, Hood was to assail its left flank. As Hood was moving into position, he ran into Daniel Butterfield's Federal brigade to the east. This was a source of great danger, for had Hood formed facing west, these Federals would have been in position to attack the exposed flank and rear of his corps. After a brief skirmish with the Northerners, Hood fell back to rejoin Polk. Johnston, believing that the opportunity for a successful battle had passed, ordered Hood and Polk to move to a new line east and south of Cassville, where they were joined by Hardee who had been pushed out of Kingston. Johnston formed his army on a ridge and hoped that Sherman would attack him there on May 20. As usual, the Southern commander was confident of repulsing the enemy.\n\nDuring the night, the Confederates withdrew across the Etowah River. As they fell back, their feelings were mixed. They had lost a very strong position at Dalton, and had fallen back from Resaca, Calhoun, and Adairsville. Now they were retreating again under cover of darkness. That morning as they prepared for battle, their spirits had been high. Now their disappointment was bitter. Although morale would revive in the next few days, many Southern soldiers would never again place as much confidence in Johnston's abilities as they once had.\n\nThat night the Confederate leaders held a council of war. Exactly what happened at the council is a matter of dispute. According to Johnston, Polk and Hood reported that their lines could not be held and urged that the army retreat. Believing that the fears of the corps commanders would be communicated to their men and thus weaken the army's confidence, Johnston yielded to these demands, even though he thought the position to be defensible. According to Hood, whose recollection of the council differs markedly from Johnston's, he and Polk told Johnston that the line could not be held against an attack but that it was a good position from which to move against the enemy. Johnston, however, was unwilling to risk an offensive battle and decided to fall back across the Etowah. No definite resolution of this dispute is possible, but most of the available evidence, including a post-war letter to Union General Butterfield, supports Hood's version of the conference. Certainly Johnston was not required to allow the advice of subordinates to overrule his own judgment. The responsibility for abandoning the Cassville position rests on the Southern commander.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917069", "title": "Gunnar Krantz (artist)", "text": "Gunnar Krantz (artist)\n\nGunnar Krantz (born 1962) is a Swedish comic creator and artist. He started creating modern-style black and white comics in the 1980s, making a name for himself in the Swedish fanzine community. His professional debut was the acclaimed album \"Alger\" in 1986.\n\nIn the 1990s, Krantz became one of the pioneers of Swedish autobiographical comics in a kitchen-sink realist style, inspired by Harvey Pekar and other North Americans. This started with the release of his album \"Superangst\" in 1993 and has continued to this day with works such \"1981\", \"Nollad\", \"Nazi Beatles\", \"Cykel-Hippie\", \"Vänster Vänster\" and \"Punk Provocateur\". Throughout the years, he has contributed to several Swedish alternative comic publications (\"Pox\", \"Elixir\", \"Galago\").\n\nAlthough he is most known for his work in the comics field, Gunnar Krantz has been involved in several other kinds of art projects. He is co-founder of the art discussion forum \"Konstarenan\".\n\nKrantz is currently, as of 2010, one of the teachers on Serieskolan i Malmö, a comics- and illustration-oriented school in Malmö.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917077", "title": "Streptococcus mutans", "text": "Streptococcus mutans\n\nStreptococcus mutans is a facultatively anaerobic, gram-positive coccus (round bacterium) commonly found in the human oral cavity and is a significant contributor to tooth decay.\nIt is part of the \"streptococci\" (plural, non-italic lowercase), an informal general name for all species in the genus \"Streptococcus\".The microbe was first described by J Kilian Clarke in 1924.\n\nThis bacterium, along with the closely related species \"Streptococcus sobrinus\", can cohabit the mouth: Both contribute to oral disease, and the expense of differentiating them in laboratory testing is often not clinically necessary. Therefore, for clinical purposes they are often considered together as a group, called the mutans streptococci (plural, non-italic due to it being an informal group name). This grouping of similar bacteria with similar tropism can also be seen in the viridans streptococci, another group of \"Streptococcus\" species.\n\n\"S. mutans\" is naturally present in the human oral microbiota, along with at least 25 other species of oral streptococci. The taxonomy of these bacteria remains tentative. Different areas of the oral cavity present different ecological niches, and each species has specific properties for colonizing different oral sites. \"S. mutans\" is most prevalent on the pits and fissures, constituting 39% of the total streptococci in the oral cavity. Fewer \"S. mutans\" bacteria are found on the buccal surface (2–9%).\n\nBacterial-fungal co-coaggregation can help to increase the cariogenic potential of S.mutans. A symbiotic relationship with S.mutans and Candida Albicans leads to increased glucan production and increased biofilm formation. This therefore amplifies the cariogenic effect of S.mutans.\n\nOral streptococci have both harmless and harmful bacteria. However, under special conditions commensal streptococci can become opportunistic pathogens, initiating disease and damaging the host. Imbalances in the microbial biota can initiate oral diseases.\n\n\"Candida albicans\" is an opportunistic pathogenic yeast that can be found within the oral cavity. Its presence in the biofilm promotes higher levels of \"Streptococcus mutans\" when looking at early childhood caries. It stimulates the formation of \"S. mutans\" microcolonies.This is achieved through low concentrations of cross-kingdom metabolites, such as farnesol, derived from the biofilm. It has been suggested that when both bacteria are present, more biofilm matrix is produced, with a greater density.When farnesol is in high concentration, it inhibits the growth of both \"S. mutans\" and \"C. albicans\". This decreases the biofilm pathogenesis, and therefore its caries promoting potential. This offers the potential for an anti-fungal to be used in the prevention of dental caries.\n\nEarly colonizers of the tooth surface are mainly \"Neisseria\" spp. and streptococci, including \"S. mutans\". They must withstand the oral cleansing forces (e.g. saliva and the tongue movements) and adhere sufficiently to the dental hard tissues. The growth and metabolism of these pioneer species changes local environmental conditions (e.g., Eh, pH, coaggregation, and substrate availability), thereby enabling more fastidious organisms to further colonize after them, forming dental plaque. Along with \"S. sobrinus\", \"S. mutans\" plays a major role in tooth decay, metabolizing sucrose to lactic acid. The acidic environment created in the mouth by this process is what causes the highly mineralized tooth enamel to be vulnerable to decay. \"S. mutans\" is one of a few specialized organisms equipped with receptors that improve adhesion to the surface of teeth. \"S. mutans\" uses the enzyme glucansucrase to convert sucrose into a sticky, extracellular, dextran-based polysaccharide that allows them to cohere, forming plaque. \"S. mutans\" produces dextran via the enzyme dextransucrase (a hexosyltransferase) using sucrose as a substrate in the following reaction:\n\nSucrose is the only sugar that bacteria can use to form this sticky polysaccharide.\n\nHowever, other sugars—glucose, fructose, lactose—can also be digested by \"S. mutans\", but they produce lactic acid as an end product. The combination of plaque and acid leads to dental decay. Due to the role \"S. mutans\" plays in tooth decay, many attempts have been made to create a vaccine for the organism. So far, such vaccines have not been successful in humans. Recently, proteins involved in the colonization of teeth by \"S. mutans\" have been shown to produce antibodies that inhibit the cariogenic process.\nA molecule recently synthesized at Yale University and the University of Chile, called Keep 32, is supposed to be able to kill \"S. mutans\". Another candidate is a peptide called C16G2, synthesised at UCLA.\n\nIt is believed that \"Streptococcus mutans\" acquired the gene that enables it to produce biofilms through horizontal gene transfer with other lactic acid bacterial species, such as \"Lactobacillus\".\n\nSurviving in the oral cavity, \"S. mutans\" is the primary causal agent and the pathogenic species responsible for dental caries (tooth decay or cavities) specifically in the initiation and development stages.\nDental plaque, typically the precursor to tooth decay, contains more than 600 different microorganisms, contributing to the oral cavity's overall dynamic environment that frequently undergoes rapid changes in pH, nutrient availability, and oxygen tension. Dental plaque adheres to the teeth and consists of bacterial cells, while plaque is the biofilm on the surfaces of the teeth. Dental plaque and \"S. mutans\" is frequently exposed to \"toxic compounds\" from oral healthcare products, food additives, and tobacco.\n\nWhile \"S. mutans\" grows in the biofilm, cells maintain a balance of metabolism that involves production and detoxification. Biofilm is an aggregate of microorganisms in which cells adhere to each other or a surface. Bacteria in the biofilm community can actually generate various toxic compounds that interfere with the growth of other competing bacteria.\n\n\"S. mutans\" has over time developed strategies to successfully colonize and maintain a dominant presence in the oral cavity. The oral biofilm is continuously challenged by changes in the environmental conditions. In response to such changes, the bacterial community evolved with individual members and their specific functions to survive in the oral cavity. \"S. mutans\" has been able to evolve from nutrition-limiting conditions to protect itself in extreme conditions. Streptococci represent 20% of the oral bacteria and actually determine the development of the biofilms. Although \"S. mutans\" can be antagonized by pioneer colonizers, once they become dominant in oral biofilms, dental caries can develop and thrive.\n\nThe causative agent of dental caries is associated with its ability to metabolize various sugars, form a robust biofilm, produce an abundant amount of lactic acid, and thrive in the acid environment it generates. A study into pH of plaque said that the critical pH for increased demineralisation of dental hard tissues (enamel and dentine) is 5.5. The Stephan curve illustrates how quickly the plaque pH can fall below 5.5 after a snack or meal.\n\nDental caries is a dental biofilm-related oral disease associated with increased consumption of dietary sugar and fermentable carbohydrates. When dental biofilms remain on tooth surfaces, along with frequent exposure to sugars, acidogenic bacteria (members of dental biofilms) will metabolize the sugars to organic acids. Untreated dental caries is the most common disease affecting humans worldwide Persistence of this acidic condition encourages the proliferation of acidogenic and aciduric bacteria as a result of their ability to survive at a low-pH environment. The low-pH environment in the biofilm matrix erodes the surface of the teeth and begins the \"initiation\" of the dental caries. \"Streptococcus mutans\" is a bacterium which is prevalent within the oral environment and is thought to be a vital microorganism that contributes to this initiation. \"S. mutans\" thrives in acidic conditions, becoming the main bacterium in cultures with permanently reduced pH If the adherence of \"S. mutans\" to the surface of teeth or the physiological ability (acidogenity and aciduricity) of \"S. mutans\" in dental biofilms can be reduced or eliminated, the acidification potential of dental biofilms and later cavity formations can be decreased.\n\nIdeally, we can stop the early various lesion developing beyond the white spot stage. Once beyond here, the enamel surface is irreversibly damaged and cannot be biologically repaired. In young children, the pain from a carious lesion can be quite distressing and restorative treatment can cause an early dental anxiety to develop. Dental anxiety has knock-on effects for both dental professionals and patients. Treatment planning and therefore treatment success can be compromised. The dental staff can become stressed and frustrated when working with anxious children. This can compromise their relationship with the child and their parents. Studies have shown a cycle to exist, whereby dentally anxious patients avoid caring for the health of their oral tissues. They can sometimes avoid oral hygiene and will try to avoid seeking dental care until the pain is unbearable.\n\nSusceptibility to disease varies between individuals and immunological mechanisms have been proposed to confer protection or susceptibility to the disease. These mechanisms have yet to be fully elucidated but it seems that while antigen presenting cells are activated by \"S. mutans\" \"in vitro\", they fail to respond \"in vivo\". Immunological tolerance to \"S. mutans\" at the mucosal surface may make individuals more prone to colonisation with \"S. mutans\" and therefore increase susceptibility to dental caries.\n\n\"S. mutans\" is often acquired in the oral cavity subsequent to tooth eruption, but has also been detected in the oral cavity of predentate children. It is generally, but not exclusively, transmitted via vertical transmission from caregiver (generally the mother) to child. This can also commonly happen when the parent puts their lips to the child's bottle to taste it, or to clean the child's pacifier, then puts it into the child's mouth.\n\n\"S. mutans\" is implicated in the pathogenesis of certain cardiovascular diseases, and is the most prevalent bacterial species detected in extirpated heart valve tissues, as well as in atheromatous plaques, with an incidence of 68.6% and 74.1%, respectively. \"Streptococcus sanguinis\", closely related to \"S. mutans\" and also found in the oral cavity, has been shown to cause Infective Endocarditis.\n\n\"Streptococcus mutans\" has been associated with bacteraemia and infective endocarditis (IE). IE is divided into acute and subacute forms, and the bacterium is isolated in subacute cases. The common symptoms are: fever, chills, sweats, anorexia, weight loss, and malaise.\n\n\"S. mutans\" has been classified into four serotypes; c, e, f, and k. The classification of the serotypes is devised from the chemical composition of the serotype-specific rhamnose-glucose polymers. For example, serotype k initially found in blood isolates has a large reduction of glucose side chains attached to the rhamnose backbone. \"S. mutans\" has the following surface protein antigens: glucosyltransferases, protein antigen and glucan-binding proteins. If these surface protein antigens are not present, then the bacteria is a protein antigen-defective mutant with the least susceptibility to phagocytosis therefore causing the least harm to cells.\n\nFurthermore, rat experiments showed that infection with such defective \"streptococcus\" mutants (\"S. mutans\" strains without glucosyltransferases isolated from a destroyed heart valve of an infective endocarditis patient) resulted in a longer duration of bacteraemia. The results demonstrate that the virulence of infective endocarditis caused by \"S. mutans\" is linked to the specific cell surface components present.\n\nIn addition, \"S. mutans\" DNA has been found in cardiovascular specimens at a higher ratio than other periodontal bacteria. This highlights its possible involvement in a variety of types of cardiovascular diseases, not just confined to bacteraemia and infective endocarditis.\nPractice of good oral hygiene including daily brushing, flossing and the use of appropriate mouthwash can significantly reduce the number of oral bacteria, including \"S. mutans\" and inhibit their proliferation. \"S. mutans\" often live in dental plaque, hence mechanical removal of plaque is an effective way of getting rid of them. The best toothbrushing technique to reduce plaque build up, decreasing caries risk, is the modified Bass technique. Brushing twice daily can help decrease the caries risk. However, there are some remedies used in the treatment of oral bacterial infection, in conjunction with mechanical cleaning. These include fluoride, which has a direct inhibitory effect on the enolase enzyme, as well as chlorhexidine, which works presumably by interfering with bacterial adherence.\n\nFluoride has a number of benefits to oral health. Firstly, remineralisation of enamel in the presence of fluoride ions forms fluorhydroxyapatite. This is stronger and more resistant to demineralisation due to acid produced by bacteria like S.mutans.\n\nFurthermore, fluoride ions can be detrimental to bacterial cell metabolism. Fluoride directly inhibits glycolytic enzymes and H+ATPases. Fluoride ions also lower the pH of the cytoplasm. This means there will be less acid produced during the bacterial glycolysis. Therefore, fluoride mouthwashes, toothpastes, gels and varnishes can help to reduce the prevalence of caries. However, findings from investigations into the effect of fluoride-containing varnish, on the level of \"Streptococcus mutans\" in the oral environment in children suggest that the reduction of caries cannot be explained by a reduction in the level of \"Streptococcus mutans\" in saliva or dental plaque . Fluoride varnish treatment with or without prior dental hygiene has no significant effect on the plaque and salivary levels of \"S. mutans\" . \n\n\"S. mutans\" secretes Glucosyltransferase on its cell wall, which allows the bacteria to produce polysaccharides from sucrose. These sticky polysaccharides are responsible for the bacteria's ability to aggregate with one another and adhere to tooth enamel, i.e. to form biofilms. Use of Anti Cell-Associated Glucosyltransferase (Anti-CA-gtf) Immunoglobulin Y disrupts \"S. mutans\"' ability to adhere to the teeth enamel, thus preventing it from reproducing. Studies have shown that Anti-CA-gtf IgY is able to effectively and specifically suppress \"S. mutans\" in the oral cavity.\n\nOther common preventative measures center on reducing sugar intake. One way this is done is with sugar replacements such as xylitol or erythritol which cannot be metabolized into sugars which normally enhance \"S. mutans\" growth. The molecule xylitol, a 5 carbon sugar, disrupts the energy production of S.mutans by forming a toxic intermediate during glycolysis. Various other natural remedies have been suggested or studied to a degree, including deglycyrrhizinated licorice root extract, tea tree oil, macelignan (found in nutmeg), curcuminoids (the main components of turmeric), and eugenol (found in bay leaves, cinnamon leaves and cloves). Additionally various teas have been tested for activity against \"S. mutans\" and other dental benefits. However, none of these remedies have been subject to clinical trials or are recommended by mainstream dental health groups to treat \"S. mutans\".\n\nThe addition of bioactive glass beads to dental composites reduces penetration of \"Streptococcus mutans\" into the marginal gaps between tooth and composite. They have antimicrobial properties, reducing bacterial penetration. This decreases the risk of secondary caries developing, a common reason for failure of dental restorations. This means that the longevity and efficacy of composite restorations may be improved.\n\nConditions in the oral cavity are diverse and complex, frequently changing from one extreme to another. Thus, to survive in the oral cavity, \"S. mutans\" must tolerate rapidly harsh environmental fluctuations and exposure to various antimicrobial agents to survive. Transformation is a bacterial adaptation involving the transfer of DNA from one bacterium to another through the surrounding medium. Transformation is a primitive form of sexual reproduction. For a bacterium to bind, take up, and recombine exogenous DNA into its chromosome, it must enter a special physiological state termed “competence”. In \"S. mutans\", a peptide pheromone quorum-sensing signaling system controls genetic competence. This system functions optimally when the S. mutans cells are in crowded biofilms. \"S. mutans\" cells growing in a biofilm are transformed at a rate 10- to 600-fold higher than single cells growing under uncrowded conditions (planktonic cells). Induction of competence appears to be an adaptation for repairing DNA damage caused by crowded, stressful conditions.\n\nKnowing about quorum-sensing gives rise to the potential development of drugs and therapies. Quorum-sensing peptides can be manipulated to cause target suicide as well as. Furthermore, quenching quorum-sensing can lead to prevention of antibiotic resistance.\n\nThree key traits have evolved in \"S. mutans\" and increased its virulence by enhancing its adaptability to the oral cavity: increased organic acid production, the capacity to form biofilms on the hard surfaces of teeth, and the ability to survive and thrive in a low pH environment.\n\nDuring its evolution, \"S. mutans\" acquired the ability to increase the amount of carbohydrates it could metabolize, and consequently more organic acid was produced as a byproduct. This is significant in the formation of dental caries because increased acidity in the oral cavity amplifies the rate of demineralization of the tooth, which leads to carious lesions. It is thought that the trait evolved in \"S. mutans\" via lateral gene transfer with another bacterial species present in the oral cavity. There are several genes, SMU.438 and SMU.1561, involved in carbohydrate metabolism that are up-regulated in \"S. mutans\". These genes possibly originated from \"Lactococcus lactis\" and \"S. gallolyticus\", respectively.\n\nAnother instance of lateral gene transfer is responsible for \"S. mutans\"’ acquisition of the glucosyltransferase (GTF) gene. The GTF genes found in \"S. mutans\" most likely are derived from other anaerobic bacteria found in the oral cavity, such as \"Lactobacillus\" or \"Leuconostoc\". Additionally, the GTF genes in \"S. mutans\" display homology with similar genes found in \"Lactobacillus\" and \"Leuconostoc\". The common ancestral gene is believed to have been used for hydrolysis and linkage of carbohydrates.\n\nThe third trait that evolved in \"S. mutans\" is its ability to not only survive, but also thrive in acidic conditions. This trait gives \"S. mutans\" a selective advantage over other members of the oral microbiota. As a result, \"S. mutans\" could outcompete other species, and occupy additional regions of the mouth, such as advanced dental plaques, which can be as acidic as pH 4.0. Natural selection is most likely the primary evolutionary mechanisms responsible for this trait.\n\nIn discussing the evolution of \"S. mutans\", it is imperative to include the role humans have played and the co-evolution that has occurred between the two species. As humans evolved anthropologically, the bacteria evolved biologically. It is widely accepted that the advent of agriculture in early human populations provided the conditions \"S. mutans\" needed to evolve into the virulent bacterium it is today. Agriculture introduced fermented foods, as well as more carbohydrate-rich foods, into the diets of historic human populations. These new foods introduced new bacteria to the oral cavity and created new environmental conditions. For example, \"Lactobacillus\" or \"Leuconostoc\" are typically found in foods such as yogurt and wine. Also, consuming more carbohydrates increased the amount of sugars available to \"S. mutans\" for metabolism and lowered the pH of the oral cavity. This new acidic habitat would select for those bacteria that could survive and reproduce at a lower pH.\n\nAnother significant change to the oral environment occurred during the Industrial Revolution. More efficient refinement and manufacturing of foodstuffs increased the availability and amount of sucrose consumed by humans. This provided \"S. mutans\" with more energy resources, and thus exacerbated an already rising rate of dental caries. Refined sugar is pure sucrose, the only sugar that can be converted to sticky glucans, allowing bacteria to form a thick, strongly adhering plaque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917084", "title": "Axel Corti", "text": "Axel Corti\n\nAxel Corti (born \"Axel Fuhrmanns\"; 7 May 1933 – 29 December 1993) was an Austrian screenwriter, film director and radio host.\n\nHe was born in Paris. His father was a businessman of Austrian and Italian descent, his mother was from Berlin. From German-occupied France, he and his mother were brought to safety in Switzerland by his father, a member of the Resistance who died in 1945. After World War II, he moved to Italy, where he took on the surname Corti, and finally began to study German and Romance philology at the University of Innsbruck.\n\nCorti worked at public Radio Innsbruck from 1953 onwards, from 1956 to 1960 as head of the literature and radio drama department of the Tyrolean ORF regional radio. He then turned to a career as an assistant director at the Vienna Burgtheater and worked as a director at Theater Oberhausen and Theater Ulm as well as with Peter Brook in London. Called up to return to public broadcasting upon a major restructuring of the ORF radio programmes, he made Austrian radio history with the conception of his weekly \"Der Schalldämpfer\" broadcasts, which he presented as radio host for more than 24 years from 1969 until 1993. Initially aired by the ORF Ö3 entertainment radio station, Corti's commentaries in a feuilleton style and his sounding voice stood out of a mainly light music programme. The last \"Schalldämpfer\" was broadcast three days before his death, featuring the life and work of Rabbi Hillel the Elder.\n\nIn 1969 Corti worked as an actor in an ORF television play directed by Wolfgang Glück. The next year he adapted Milhaud's/Cocteau's \"Le pauvre matelot\" (\"The Poor Sailor\") and \"Angelique\" by Jacques Ibert (starring Mimi Coertse) for an enactment by the Vienna State Opera ensemble at Hofburg Palace, conducted by Hans Swarowsky. Corti also worked as a film director and was appointed a professor at the Filmacademy Vienna in 1972. His 1975 film \"The Condemned\" was entered into the 9th Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nCorti married in 1964 and was the father of three sons. He died of leukemia in Oberndorf, Salzburg and is buried in the Arnsdorf cemetery of nearby Lamprechtshausen.\n\nSince 1997 an annual \"Axel-Corti-Preis\" for outstanding TV productions is awarded by several Austrian adult education associations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917091", "title": "Greater Croatia", "text": "Greater Croatia\n\nGreater Croatia () is a term applied to certain currents within Croatian nationalism. In one sense, it refers to the territorial scope of the Croatian people, emphasising the ethnicity of those Croats living outside Croatia. In the political sense, though, the term refers to an irredentist belief in the equivalence between the territorial scope of the Croatian people and that of the Croatian state.\n\nThe concept of a Greater Croatian state has its modern origins with the Illyrian movement, a pan-South-Slavist cultural and political campaign with roots in the early modern period, and revived by a group of young Croatian intellectuals during the first half of the 19th century. Although this movement arose in the developing European nationalist context of the time, it particularly arose as a response to the more powerful nationalist stirrings in the then-Kingdom of Hungary, with whom Croatia was in a personal union. \n\nThe foundations of the concept of Greater Croatia are laid in late 17th and early 18th century works of Pavao Ritter Vitezović. He was the first ideologist of Croatian nation who proclaimed that all South Slavs are Croats. His works were used to legitimize expansionism of the Habsburg Empire to the east and south by asserting its historical rights to claim Illyria. \"Illyria\" as Slavic territory projected by Vitezović would eventually incorporate not only most of the Southeastern Europe but also parts of Central Europe such as Hungary. Vitezović defines territory of Croatia which, besides Illyria and all Slavic populated territory, includes all the territory between Adriatic, Black and Baltic seas.\n\nBecause the Kingdom of Hungary was so large, Hungary attempted processes of Magyarisation on its constituent territories. As a reaction, Ljudevit Gaj led the creation of the Illyrian movement. This movement aimed to establish Croatian national presence within Austria-Hungary through linguistic and ethnic unity among South Slavs. This was the first and most prominent Pan-Slavic movement in Croatian history.\n\nAn early proponent of Croatian-based Pan-Slavism was the politician, Count Janko Drašković. In 1832, he published his \"Dissertation\" to the joint Hungarian-Croatian Diet, in which he envisioned a “Great Illyria” consisting of all the South Slav provinces of the Habsburg Empire.\n\nLikewise, the influential Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer, although a supporter of the Habsburg Monarchy, nonetheless advocated merging the Kingdom of Dalmatia with Croatia.\n\nThe concept of a Greater Croatia was developed further by Ante Starčević and Eugen Kvaternik, who founded the nationalist Party of Rights (HSP) in 1861. Unlike Strossmayer and the proponents of the Illyrian movement, HSP advocated a united Croatia that stood independently of a Pan-Slavic umbrella state. Starčević was an early opponent of Croatia's unification with Serbs and Slovenes (chiefly the Kingdom of Serbia); their ideologies gradually gained popularity during the interwar period as tensions grew in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia between the Croatian and the more influential Serbian political leaders. Ensuing events surrounding the ideology culminated in the World War II conflict between the Independent State of Croatia and its opponents including Chetnik Serbs and Communists of all ethnicities (including Croatian).\n\nAmid rising ethnic tensions between Croats and Serbs in the 1930s, an autonomous state within Yugoslavia, called the Banovina of Croatia was peacefully negotiated in the Yugoslav parliament in the Cvetković–Maček Agreement of 1939. Croatia was united into a single territorial unit and was provided territories of parts of present-day Vojvodina, and both Posavina and southern parts of present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina, which had Croatian majority at the time.\n\nThe first modern development of a Greater Croatia came about with the establishment of the Independent State of Croatia (, NDH). Following occupation of the country by Axis forces in 1941, Slavko Kvaternik, deputy leader of the Ustaše proclaimed the establishment of the NDH.\n\nThe Ustaša, an ultranationalist and fascist movement founded in 1929 supported a Greater Croatia that would extend to the River Drina and to the edge of Belgrade. Ante Pavelić, the Ustaše's Poglavnik (leader) had been in negotiations with Fascist Italy since 1927. These negotiations included Pavelić supporting Italy's annexation of its claimed territory in Dalmatia in exchange for Italy supporting an independent Croatia. In addition, Mussolini offered Pavelić the right for Croatia to annex all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Pavelić agreed to this exchange.\nThe Greater Croatia ideology, combined with Nazi racial theory, culminated in the Genocide of Serbs and the Holocaust in NDH carried out by Ustaša.\n\nThe most recent expression of a Greater Croatia arose in the aftermath of the breakup of Yugoslavia. When the multiethnic Yugoslav republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared independence in 1992, Bosnian Serb political representatives, who had boycotted the referendum, established their own government of Republika Srpska, whereupon their forces attacked the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nAt the beginning of the Bosnian war, the Croats and Bosniaks formed an alliance against the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) and the Army of Republika Srpska (VRS). The main Croat army was the Croatian Defence Council (HVO), and the Bosniak was the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ARBiH). In November 1991, the Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia was established as an autonomous Croat territorial unit within Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n\nThe leaders of Herzeg-Bosnia called it a temporary measure during the conflict with the Serb forces and claimed it had no secessionary goal. The Croatian Defence Forces (HOS), a paramilitary wing of the Croatian Party of Rights, supported a confederation between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but on the basis of the NDH. Over time, the relations between Croats and Bosniaks worsened, resulting in the Croat–Bosniak War, which lasted until early 1994 and the signing of the Washington Agreement.\n\nCroatian President Franjo Tuđman was criticised for trying to expand the borders of Croatia, mostly by annexing Herzegovina and parts of Bosnia with Croat majorities. In 2013, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) ruled, by a majority, that the Croatian leadership had a goal to join the areas of Herzeg-Bosnia to a \"Greater Croatia\", in accordance with the borders of the Banovina of Croatia in 1939. Judge Jean-Claude Antonetti, the presiding judge in the trial, issued a separate opinion in which he disputed the notion that Tuđman had a plan to divide Bosnia. On 29 November 2017, the Appeals Chamber concluded that Tuđman shared the ultimate purpose of \"setting up a Croatian entity that reconstituted earlier borders and that facilitated the reunification of the Croatian people\".\n\nMost commonly encompassed regions include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917103", "title": "Columbia State Historic Park", "text": "Columbia State Historic Park\n\nColumbia State Historic Park, also known as Columbia Historic District, is a state park unit and National Historic Landmark District preserving historic downtown Columbia, California, USA. It includes almost 30 buildings built during the California Gold Rush, most of which remain today. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1961.\n\nThe site was proclaimed a state historic park in 1945, and the restored buildings are operated as an inhabited, working open-air museum. Individuals in period costumes run a handmade candy store, a Daguerreotype studio, and stagecoach rides, among other stores and restaurants. The Columbia Museum, formerly the Cavalier Museum, is located in the Knapp building.\n\nVolunteers with the Friends of Columbia State Historic Park host many special living history programs at the park each year. During Gold Rush Days, held the second Saturday of each month, park docents in period clothing lead programs in the park, and there are special exhibits and hands-on activities. Free tours of the town are offered on weekends year-round and daily in the summer.\n\nGold was discovered in the area that became Columbia on March 27, 1850, and was one of the richest finds of the California Gold Rush. The surface-level deposits were amenable to placer mining, but lacked water needed for such operations. Over the next seven years, a network of water supply aqueducts was built (at a cost of over $1 million) to the area to support mining operations. By 1852, sufficient water was arriving to support the development of a mining boom town, and large-scale mining operations began in 1856. The town was incorporated in 1854, and its population fluctuated in the 1850s between 2,000 and 5,000 people. The town was repeatedly struck by fire, and much of the construction after an 1857 fire was in brick.\n\nColumbia State Historic Park has been used as a shooting location for many films and television scenes. \"High Noon\" includes scenes filmed in 1952 in and around the Wilson House, on Main Street and in front of Engine House #2. The Shadow Riders (1982) was also filmed in and around Columbia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917112", "title": "Engolpion", "text": "Engolpion\n\nAn encolpion (also engolpion, enkolpion; Greek: ἐγκόλπιον, \"enkólpion\", \"on the chest\"; plural: ἐγκόλπια, \"enkólpia\") is a medallion with an icon in the center worn around the neck by Orthodox and Eastern Catholic bishops. The icon is normally surrounded by jewels (usually paste) and topped by an Eastern-style mitre. It often also has a small jewelled pendant hanging down at the bottom. The engolpion is suspended from the neck by a long gold chain, sometimes made up of intricate links. A portion of the chain will often be joined together with a small ring behind the neck so that it hangs down the back. Engolpia come in many different shapes, including oval, rhombus, square, or a double-headed eagle. In antiquarian contexts, an \"encolpion cross\" is a pectoral cross of the Byzantine period.\n\nThe custom of bearing on the person objects of this character was evidently derived from the pagan practice of wearing \"bullae\", containing amulets, round the neck as a protection against incantations; the Church endeavoured to purify this usage from superstition by substituting objects venerated by Christians for those to which they had been accustomed before conversion. According to St. Jerome, however (in Matt., c. xxiii), some of the faithful in his day attached a superstitious importance to these aids to piety; he censures certain classes of women who seem to have, in some degree, identified sanctity with an exaggerated veneration for sacred relics: \"Hoc quod apud nos superstitiosae mulierculae in parvulis evangeliis et in crucis ligno et istiusmodi rebus, quae habent quidem zelum Dei, sed non secundum scientiam, factitant\" (That which superstitious women amongst us, who have a certain zeal for God but not of right knowledge, do in regard to little copies of the Gospels, the wood of the cross, and things of that kind).\nEngolpia were of various forms, oval, round, four-cornered and of various materials ranging from gold to glass. In 1571 two gold encolpia, square in form, were found in tombs of the ancient Vatican cemetery, engraved on one side with the monogram of Christ between the Alpha and Omega, and on the other with a dove. Another, now lost, was found in the tomb of Maria, wife of the Emperor Honorius, bearing the names of the imperial couple with the legend VIVATIS and the monogram.\nThe famous treasure of Monza contains the \"theca persica\", enclosing a text from the Gospel of St. John, sent by Pope St. Gregory the Great (590-604) to Queen Theodolinda for her son Adaloald. Another of the gifts of this pope to the Lombard queen was a cruciform encolpion containing a portion of the True Cross.\nProbably the most interesting reliquary of this form is a gold pectoral cross discovered at Rome in 1863, in the basilica of S. Lorenzo (fuori le mura), on the breast of a corpse. On one side it bears the inscription: EMMANOTHA NOBISCUM DEUS (Emmanuel, God with us), and on the other: CRUX EST VITA MIHI, MORS INIMICE TIBE (To me the Cross is life; to thee, O enemy, it is death).\nTo the category of engolpia belong also the ampullae, or vials or vessels of lead, clay or other materials in which were preserved such esteemed relics as oil from the lamps that burned before the Holy Sepulchre, and the golden keys with filings from St. Peter's chains, one of which was sent by St. Gregory the Great to the Frankish King Childebert.\n\nEncolpion, a different anglicization of the same word, covers the early medieval tradition in both Eastern and Western Christianity.\n\nAll bishops wear a particular kind of engolpion called a \"Panagia\" (Greek: Παναγία), which depicts the Theotokos (Virgin Mary). All primates and some bishops below primatial rank have the dignity of wearing a second engolpion, which usually depicts Christ. Occasionally, an archimandrite may be awarded an engolpion which bears not an icon of Christ or the Theotokos, but of the Cross. The enkolpion may be worn at all times as part of the bishop's street dress or choir dress. When the bishop vests for Divine Services, he will wear also a pectoral cross. When a bishop is vested before the Divine Liturgy, if he has the dignity of wearing an enkolpion in addition to the Panagia, the Protodeacon chants the following prayer as the subdeacons place it on the bishop: \"\"Thy heart is inditing of a good matter; thou shalt speak of the deeds unto the King, always, now and ever, and unto the ages of age. Amen\"\".\n\nSome enkolpia are hollow, so they may be used as a reliquary. The enkolpia may have originated from the eucharistic lockets once worn by monks in order to be able to communicate themselves when they travelled. Since bishops are monks and often travelled they would have naturally have had such lockets and since they were bishops their eucharistic lockets would have been made and ornamented with much more precious materials than those of ordinary monks.\n"}
{"id": "1917113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917113", "title": "North Carolina Fusion U23", "text": "North Carolina Fusion U23\n\nNorth Carolina Fusion U-23, formerly known as Carolina Dynamo, is an American soccer team based in Greensboro, North Carolina, United States. Founded in 1993, the team plays in USL League Two, the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid.\n\nThe team plays its home games at Macpherson Stadium in nearby Browns Summit, North Carolina, where they have played since 2003. The team's colors are white and red.\n\nThe team has a sister organization, the U23 NCFusion Women, who play in the women's USL W-League, and also fields a team in the USL's Super-20 League, a league for players 17 to 20 years of age run under the United Soccer Leagues umbrella.\n\nThe team, which was named Greensboro Dynamo until 1996, is owned by Neil Macpherson, a passionate follower and former shareholder of English club Nottingham Forest, as can be seen from the similarities between the two clubs' badges.\n\n\n\n\n\nAttendance stats are calculated by averaging each team's self-reported home attendances from the historical match archive at https://web.archive.org/web/20100105175057/http://www.uslsoccer.com/history/index_E.html.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917117", "title": "Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec", "text": "Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec\n\nThe objective of the game is to win all the provided races, championships, complete license tests and achieve 100% game completion. Every 25% of the game completed results in the player being awarded a car as a special prize. For \"GT3\", the Gran Turismo Mode (Simulation Mode in the North American version) has a reorganized layout, with a more structured and progressive arrangement of races and challenges. Races vary from short beginner events to multi-hour endurance races and also rallying events against an opponent. In addition, the car shops are now organized by country and then by manufacturer, which some find to be more intuitive than the East/West City method used in its predecessor.\n\nThe Arcade Mode is reorganized in \"stages\"; these stages are made up of 5 or 6 tracks pooled from all available tracks in the game, including both road and rally races. To get to the next stage, all tracks on a stage must be completed on Easy difficulty or higher. By beating the stage on Normal or Difficult, additional cars are unlocked as well for play in any mode of Arcade Mode (including two-player battle and time trial).\n\n\"GT3\" features 19 race courses, 14 of which have reverse variants and 4 of which are dirt tracks. Most of these circuits are at fictional locations, but California's Laguna Seca Raceway and Côte d’Azur (which is heavily based on the Monaco Grand Prix circuit) are not.\n\nOther changes include the omission of the ability to \"race modify\" or add downforce to production cars, removal of suspension damage, and the absence of torque limits for races.\n\nNew to the franchise, \"GT3\" also contained unlicensed versions of six actual Formula One cars, labelled as F686/M, F687/S, F688/S, F090/S, F094/H and F094/S (in the Japanese and American versions) that the player could win from endurance races. In the Japanese and American versions, the name of each car denotes various pieces of information (such as the amount of cylinders in the engine, the year the chassis was raced, and its driver, respectively). For example, the a forementioned F094/S was the 10-cylinder, 1994-season car driven by Ayrton Senna, whereas the F686/M represented the 6-cylinder, 1986-season car driven by Nigel Mansell. In the PAL release, however, there were only two F1 cars, not obviously based on any real-life counterparts and instead labelled as Polyphony 001 and 002 respectively.\n\n\"GT3\" also marks informal appearances of automakers Lamborghini and Porsche. A racing JGTC Lamborghini Diablo was featured in the NTSC-J version (where the car has been cut from NTSC-U copy and being available in NTSC-U copy with a cheat device), and a Porsche 911 GT3 can be found in the game code (though it cannot be obtained normally, and requires the use of a cheat device). Both cars, together with two hidden Lancia Stratoses (road and rally versions), however, are completely absent in PAL version. Lamborghini would make its first official appearance in 2009's \"Gran Turismo (PSP)\", while Porsche made its first official appearance in \"Gran Turismo Sport\" for the PlayStation 4.\n\nThe developers collaborated with computer and game peripheral maker Logitech for the game, which resulted in the GT Force steering wheel. The wheel features force feedback and was designed specifically for \"GT3\".\n\nA demo copy of the game under the working title was issued in the \"PlayStation Festival 2000\", allowing players to drive a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution V in the Seattle Circuit for 120 seconds. The game was more or less a beta version of GT3 named \"Gran Turismo 2000\", that was renamed to GT3 A-Spec due to the fact the game was taking longer to make than planned.\n\nCompared to \"Gran Turismo 2\", the graphics are greatly improved thanks to the \"PlayStation 2\" hardware system, but the number of cars has been drastically reduced in this game due to large work onto graphics, cars structure, detailed statistics of all the cars and the game's release being early in the \"PlayStation 2's\" lifespan. About 180 cars are featured in this game, rather than 650 in \"GT2\".\n\nA giveaway was launched at the release of the game included various prizes in North America for example, there was a day at the Skip Barber Racing School, car payments for a month and Gran Turismo themed shirt and hat up for giveaway.\n\nDue to its critically acclaimed reception, a short version, \"Gran Turismo Concept\", was released in Japan and various parts of the world except North America in 2001 and 2002. It included new models unveiled during famous Asian and European Motor Shows. Upon completing the game, the player was given a save game with all licenses completed and 10,000,000 credits for \"Gran Turismo 3\".\n\nFrank O'Connor reviewed the PlayStation 2 version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it five stars out of five, and stated that \"The best, most complete, and most impressive driving game so far, lapping its predecessors handily – and the first must-have for PlayStation 2.\"\n\n\"Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec\" received \"critical acclaim\", according to review aggregator Metacritic. It has appeared on some 'Top 100 Games' lists such as that by IGN in 2003. In 2004, readers of \"Retro Gamer\" voted \"Gran Turismo 2\" 97th top retro gamer, with the staff noting that \"the mix of realistic handling and superb graphics, not to mention the fact that it features hundreds of licensed vehicles, has won it the admiration of car lovers everywhere. The gameplay may be a little too deep and difficult for many, but for its core followers, \"Gran Turismo\" is the be all and end all of digital racing, and \"GT3\" has been voted as the best of the bunch.\"\n\n\"Gran Turismo 3\" sold 1 million copies in its first three days of release. By July 2006, it had sold 3.8 million copies and earned $120 million in the United States alone. \"Next Generation\" ranked it as the third highest-selling game launched for the PlayStation 2, Xbox or GameCube between January 2000 and July 2006 in that country. The game also received a \"Double Platinum\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 600,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\n\nAs of April 30, 2008, the game has shipped 1.89 million copies in Japan, 7.14 million in North America, 5.85 million in Europe, and 10,000 in Southeast Asia, for a total of 14.89 million copies. It is the highest-selling game in the \"Gran Turismo\" franchise. It is a part of the PlayStation 2's Greatest Hits. It ranked fifteenth in the list of best-selling unbundled console games of all time, just below \"Wii Fit Plus\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917118", "title": "XHDTV-TDT", "text": "XHDTV-TDT\n\nXHDTV-TDT, virtual channel 49 (UHF digital channel 21), is a Milenio Televisión-affiliated television station located in Tecate, Baja California, Mexico and serving the Tijuana–San Diego international metropolitan area. The station's license and transmitter are owned by Mexican company Televisora Alco, which is 40% owned by station operator Entravision Communications; XHDTV is a sister station to Entravision-owned Univision affiliate KBNT-CD (channel 17), UniMás affiliate KDTF-LD (channel 51) and Azteca América affiliate XHAS-TDT (channel 33). All four stations share studios on Ruffin Road in the Kearny Mesa section of San Diego, California, United States; XHDTV's transmitter is located on Cerro Bola, within the municipality of Tecate. Despite no longer carrying American content, XHDTV continues to be carried on channel 13 by San Diego Cox systems on the U.S. side of the market; the station is also carried in Tijuana on Izzi channel 49.\n\nAs it is licensed by the Mexican government, XHDTV is not covered under the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s must carry rules. This means that local cable providers in the San Diego market are not required to carry the station, even if it requests to be carried under this provision. However, the station is required to be carried by Mexican pay-TV providers in the Tijuana viewing area.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on 1 November 1999 as XHUPN-TV, more than a year after Alco received its concession on 2 July 1998. Operated as an English-language commercial station since its debut (the second such Baja California-licensed station in the San Diego–Tijuana market to operate in this manner, after XETV-TV (channel 6)), it originally served as the market's UPN affiliate, which brought that network's programming back to the market just over a year after charter affiliate KUSI-TV (channel 51) dropped UPN due to the network's low viewership locally and reverted to being an independent station in 1998. In the interim, UPN programming was brought in out-of-market from KCOP-TV, the network's owned-and-operated station in Los Angeles, on San Diego area cable providers. When XHUPN went on the air, the station asked those cable providers to drop KCOP from their lineups. Thereafter, XHUPN adopted the \"UPN 13\" moniker; while XHUPN was the station's official callsign as licensed by the Secretariat of Communications and Transportation (SCT), it used the fictional and abbreviated callsign \"XUPN\" on-air.\n\nOn 24 January 2006, Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that they would shut down The WB and UPN. The two networks would then have some of their programming folded into a single service, The CW. On that same date, The CW signed KSWB-TV (channel 69) as the network's San Diego charter affiliate as part of a ten-year affiliation agreement between the network and KSWB owner Tribune Broadcasting's 14 WB-affiliated stations at the time. After the merger was announced, XHUPN was initially expected to become an affiliate of Spanish-language network Telefutura; however on 18 March 2006, it was announced that XHUPN would instead become a charter affiliate of MyNetworkTV, another upstart network created by the Fox Entertainment Group subsidiary of News Corporation (the Telefutura affiliation instead went to KDTF-LP (channel 51)).\n\nThe station dropped all UPN references on-air soon afterward and simply called itself \"Channel 13\" and later \"TV 13\" (this same practice of stations dropping UPN branding following the announcement of The CW's launch had become common on UPN affiliates owned by News Corporation's Fox Television Stations unit). It also received SCT approval on 10 April 2006 to change its callsign to XHDTV-TV. UPN programming on XHDTV ended on 4 September, with the exception of \"WWE SmackDown\", which aired on late Friday nights/early Saturday mornings after midnight for two weeks prior to The CW's launch. As a MyNetworkTV affiliate, the station branded as \"XDTV MyTV 13\", with \"XDTV\" serving as its new fictional and abbreviated callsign.\n\nIn September 2018, XHDTV-TDT dropped MyNetworkTV and joined Milenio Televisión; MyNetworkTV's programming moved to a secondary clearance on the CW-affiliated second digital subchannel of KFMB-TV (channel 8), an increasingly common fate for the service. XHDTV was the final Mexican-licensed station carrying an English language schedule meant more for American audiences (following XETV-TDT's switch from The CW to Canal 5 in 2017); at the time of the switch, it was also the only English-language commercial television station in the San Diego–Tijuana market without any form of news, either produced in-house or from another market station. It is unknown if Milenio's parent network Multimedios Televisión (which has begun a nationwide expansion from their traditional Monterrey base) will eventually join this station's channel lineup to expand the network to Mexico's Pacific coast, either by purchase or affiliation.\n\nXHDTV-TV became a charter affiliate of MundoFox, which launched on 13 August 2012 on digital subchannel 49.2. The subchannel was removed early on 1 December 2016 upon the end of operations for the network (which changed its name to MundoMax in its last year).\n\nXHDTV-TDT added a subchannel carrying Azteca América on 15 March 2017, replacing KZSD-LP as the network's San Diego affiliate (that station became a MeTV affiliate on 1 May); the network then moved to sister station XHAS-TDT on 1 July. 49.2 went dark and soon was removed again.\n\nIn the summer of 2011, XHDTV-TV began transmitting a digital signal on UHF channel 47; this signal remaps on ATSC digital tuners in both countries as virtual channel 49.1 (reflecting its analog channel allocation) through PSIP. While the United States completed its transition to full-power digital television on 12 June 2009, Mexico is making the transition to digital-only television broadcasts over the course of several years in order from the largest population centers to the smallest; the country's digital television transition expected to be completed by 31 December 2015. XHDTV was not required to shut down its analog signal on 16 April 2013 like other Tijuana stations, as it is licensed to Tecate; this switch took place on 14 July 2015, and was only accomplished after repeaters of several Tijuana stations were converted there.\n\nIn March 2018, in order to facilitate the repacking of TV services out of the 600 MHz band (channels 38–51), XHDTV was assigned channel 21 for continued digital operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917120", "title": "Wildcoast", "text": "Wildcoast\n\nWildcoast (stylized \"WiLDCOAST\") is an international non-profit environmental organization that conserve coastal and marine ecosystem and wildlife.\n\nHeadquartered in Imperial Beach, California, in 2007 Wildcoast established a Mexican division, Costasalvaje A.C. in Tijuana to manage its conservation programs in Latin America.\n\nCharity Navigator awarded Wildcoast its four-star charity ranking. The organization received the Excellence in Organizational Development Award from Nonprofit Management Solutions in 2006. It also received the San Diego Earthworks E.A.R.T.H. Award in 2007. In 2008, Wildcoast received the Green Wave Award from the Surfer's Path Magazine.\n\n\nOne of Wildcoast's primary missions is to preserve spectacular, undeveloped coastal areas throughout the peninsula of Baja California such as Bahía de los Ángeles, Bahía Concepción, Bahía Magdalena, Laguna San Ignacio and the North Central Pacific Coast. These are some of the most ecologically important coastal areas remaining on the planet and are teeming with wildlife including endangered species of sea turtles, whales and migratory birds. Inhabited by people who make their living from fishing, ranching, and ecotourism, these locations are threatened by megaresort construction, land speculation, energy development, and mining projects.\n\nWorking in partnership with local community-based organizations and landowners, Wildcoast provides support for land conservation projects such as easements, private reserves, concessions, and sustainable development projects. Many of Wildcoast conservation projects are carried out with members of ejidos, or communal agrarian cooperatives and private landowners to help them hold on to their ancestral land and receive financial incentives to protect the land from development. Wildcoast made history by working with the Laguna San Ignacio Conservation Alliance in the brokering of a deal to protect the entire territory of the Ejido Luis Echeverria in San Ignacio Lagoon. The legally binding deal is being praised as a model for conserving both the environment and the local way of life. San Ignacio is the world’s last undeveloped gray whale lagoon and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nAlong the North Central Coast of Baja California Wildcoast has protected more than of coastline through conservation easements. In addition, Wildcoast worked to halt a series of megaresort and marina projects slated for this region in Baja California that would have obliterated world-class coastal biodiversity sites.\n\nThe focus of the Wildlife Conservation Program is to protect endangered marine species and their habitats. In 2006, Wildcoast carried out a wildly successful campaign \"Defiende el Mar\" (Defend the Sea) to support the creation of marine protected areas along the central coast of California and Mexico’s Gulf of California. The campaign took place at the 2006 Soccer World Cup in Germany involving partnerships with Mexican soccer stars, Jorge Campos and \"Kikin\" Fonseca, to promote marine protected areas. The campaign resulted in the establishment of a marine reserve in Bahía de los Ángeles in the Sea of Cortez and a network of marine reserves near the coast of Monterey and Santa Cruz in California. Jorge Campos, one of the world’s greatest goalies, received the Monterey Bay Aquarium's Environmental Hero award for his work with Wildcoast to defend the ocean. From 2007-2008 the Wildcoast pro-MPA campaign featured Mexican wrestler El Hijo del Santo who has ardently campaigned for new marine reserves in California and marine conservation in Mexico.\n\nThe Wildcoast \"Don’t Eat Sea Turtle\" campaign, an ongoing effort to reduce the demand for sea turtle eggs and meat throughout Mexico and Latin America received worldwide attention with its celebrity spokespeople, model Dorismar, and musicians Maná and Los Tigres del Norte. The campaign featured public service announcements, posters, post cards, advertisements on bus stops, and a conference and press event in Acapulco – a center for the black market trade in sea turtle eggs. Randy Olson of Shifting Baselines called the campaign the \"best ocean campaign in human history\".\n\nWildcoast has launched a new initiative to protect sharks. This campaign resulted in the cessation of a shark massacre in the Mexican state of Guerrero after an American surfer was killed in a shark attack in May 2008.\n\nRecently, Wildcoast has also focused on the establishment of Marine Protected Areas in California. A science-based network of Marine Protected Areas is critical to ensure the survival of marine wildlife into the future as well as maintaining Southern California’s greatest resource.\n\nEvery year thousands of Californians are exposed to hazardous waste, viruses, and bacteria contained in the millions of gallons of untreated water that flows daily into our ocean. Recreational ocean users and people fishing along the US-Mexico border are those most affected. The Coastal Conservation Program was developed to raise awareness of the public and environmental health risks associated with the pollution, to create a dialogue among stakeholders – residents, businesses, government agencies and to promote national media attention on a problem that threatens our communities and is often dismissed as an insurmountable problem.\n\nWildcoast proposes solutions to the pollution associated with increasing levels of urban and industrial development in the Californias. In 2006, Wildcoast launched the \"Clean Water Now!\" campaign along the U.S.-Mexico border to reduce the exposure of children to toxic sewage and to reduce beach closures in the region. As part of the campaign, they helped to pressure a contractor into cleaning up collector systems along the U.S.-Mexico border for renegade sewage flows.\n\nIn the ongoing effort to promote community involvement in clean water solutions along the US-Mexico Border, Wildcoast held three community forums for residents to discuss the issues and solicit involvement. More than 100 people attended the forums and pledge support for the campaign. In addition, Wildcoast sponsored the 2nd Annual Kids for Clean Water Surf Contest and the 4th Annual Dempsey Holder Memorial Expression Session and Ocean Festival. More than 600 people from all walks of life gathered to learn more about ocean pollution and ways to clean it up. In 2008, Senator Dianne Feinstein with the support of the White House appropriated more than $66 million to upgrade the sewage treatment facility along the U.S.-Mexico border.\n\nWildcoast is a member of the Save San Onofre coalition to halt the development of a toll road that would seriously impact the fabled Trestles surf break and San Onofre State Park in Orange County, California. The campaign included a trip to Sacramento to ask that legislators stop the toll road project as well as participation in the massive \"Big Wednesday\" protest at the Del Mar Fairgrounds against the Toll Road in February 2008.\n\nWildcoast is noted for its ability to work with the media in English and Spanish to bring attention to pressing coastal and marine conservation issues of global concern. The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, Associated Press, BBC News, National Public Radio, NBC Nightly News, The Today Show, CBS News, Good Magazine, and Newsweek have reported on the work of Wildcoast. In addition, the organization is a frequent guest on television networks Televisa, TV Azteca, Azteca America, Univision, and Telemundo to promote ocean conservation.\n\nWildcoast worked with the cast and crew of the HBO series John from Cincinnati while filming took place in Imperial Beach. Wildcoast's \"Clean Water Now\" signs are displayed prominently in the Yost surf shop and Wildcoast T-shirts, staff members and events also make appearances. The opening credits feature Wildcoast \"eco-lucha libre\" stars in the ring.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917122", "title": "Panagia", "text": "Panagia\n\nPanagia (Greek: Παναγία, fem. of panágios, pan- + hágios, the \"All-Holy\", or the \"Most Holy\"; pronounced ) (also transliterated Panaghia or Panajia), in Medieval and Modern Greek, is one of the titles of Mary, mother of Jesus, used especially in Eastern Catholicism and Orthodox Christianity.\n\nMost Greek churches dedicated to the Virgin Mary are called \"Panagia\"; the standard western Christian designation of \"St. Mary\" is rarely used in the Orthodox East, as Mary is considered the holiest of all human beings and therefore of higher status than the Saints.\n\n\"Panagia\" is also the term for a particular type of icon of the Theotokos, wherein she is facing the viewer directly, usually depicted full length with her hands in the \"orans\" position, and with a medallion showing the image of Christ as a child in front of her chest. This medallion symbolically represents Jesus within the womb of the Virgin Mary at the moment of the Incarnation. This type of icon is also called the \"Platytéra\" (Greek: Πλατυτέρα, literally \"wider\" or \"more spacious\"): poetically, by containing the Creator of the Universe in her womb, Mary has become \"Platytera ton ouranon\" (Πλατυτέρα τῶν Ουρανῶν), \"more spacious than the Heavens\". This type is also sometimes called the \"Virgin of the Sign\" or \"Our Lady of the Sign\", a reference to Isaiah 7:14:Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.Such an image is often placed on the inside of the apse which rises directly over the altar of Orthodox churches. In contrast with standard religious mosaics which usually have gold backgrounds, the \"Platytera\" is often depicted on a dark blue background, sometimes dotted with gold stars: a reference to the Heavens. <br>As with most Orthodox icons of Mary, the letters ΜΡ ΘΥ (short for ΜΗΤΗΡ ΘΕΟΥ, \"Mother of God\") are usually placed on the upper left and right of the halo of the Virgin Mary.\n\nBy extension of this last sense, a \"panagia\" is an engolpion with an icon of the Theotokos, worn by an Orthodox bishop. They can be very simple or extremely elaborate, depending on the personal taste of the particular bishop.\nWhen an Orthodox bishop is vested for the Divine Liturgy or another service, he wears a panagia and a pectoral cross over his other vestments. The primate of an autocephalous church, when fully vested, wears a panagia, a pectoral cross, and an engolpion of Jesus. Bishops of all ranks when not vested will usually wear the panagia alone over their riassa (cassock); this is often the detail that, to the casual observer, distinguishes a bishop from a priest or a monk. The panagia is usually oval in shape and crowned with a depiction of an Eastern mitre. Sometimes, bishops will wear a panagia which is either square (see picture, right) or shaped like a Byzantine double-headed eagle; this latter is especially true of Greek bishops.\n\nWhen the bishop is vested before the Divine Liturgy, the panagia is presented to him on a tray. He blesses it with both hands and the subdeacons bring it to him to kiss and place the panagia around his neck, while the protodeacon swings the censer and says the following prayer:\"May God create a clean heart in thee, and renew a right spirit within thee, always, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.\" After the liturgy, when the bishop takes the panagia off to unvest, he crosses himself, kisses the panagia and places it on the Holy Table (altar). After unvesting and putting on his outer riassa, he blesses the panagia, crosses himself again, and puts it on, before exiting through the Holy Doors to bless the faithful.\n\n\"Panagia\" may also refer to a prosphoron (Ἄρτος της Παναγίας, \"Ártos tēs Panagías\", \"Bread of the All-Holy\") which is solemnly blessed in honor of the Theotokos during the Divine Liturgy (see Prosphora for details). From this loaf, a large triangle in honour of the Theotokos is cut and placed on the diskos (paten) during the Liturgy of Preparation. The remainder of the loaf is blessed over the Holy Table (altar) during the hymn \"Axion Estin\", just before the blessing of the antidoron. The priest makes the Sign of the Cross with the Panagia over the Sacred Mysteries (consecrated Body and Blood of Christ) as he says, \"Great is the name of the Holy Trinity.\"\n\nIn some monasteries there is a special rite ceremony called the \"Lifting of the Panagia\" which takes place in the trapeza (refectory). After the dismissal of the Liturgy, a triangular portion is cut from the prosphoron by the refectorian (monk in charge of the refectory). The Panagia is then cut in half and laid crust downwards on a tray. The brethren will go in procession from the \"catholicon\" (main church) to the trapeza, and the Panagia is carried on its tray at the head of the procession. Once there, the Panagia is placed on a table called the \"Panagiarion\".\n\nAfter the meal, the refectorian takes off his klobuk (epanokamelavkion and kamilavkion), and bows to the assembled brethren, saying, \"Bless me, holy Fathers, and pardon me a sinner,\" to which the brotherhood bows and replies, \"May God pardon and have mercy on you.\" Then, taking the Panagia in his fingertips, he lifts it up while saying, \"Great is the name,\" and then the community continues with \"of the Holy Trinity.\" The rite then continues with, \"O All-holy Mother of God, help us!\" with the reply, \"At her prayers, O God, have mercy and save us.\" Two hymns are then sung while the refectorian, accompanied by a cleric with a hand censer, offers the Panagia to those assembled. Each takes a piece between his finger and thumb, passes it through the incense, and then consumes it as a blessing.\n\nFrom \"Panagia\" derive the common Greek given names \"Panagiota\" (feminine; pronunciation: \"Pah-nah-YAW-tah\"; common diminutives: \"Ghiota\", \"Nota\") and \"Panagiotis\" (masculine; pronunciation: \"Pah-nah-YAW-tees\"; common diminutives: \"Panos\", \"Notis\"). Both names signify that the person is named in honor of Mary, mother of Jesus and consequently their name days are celebrated as if they were named Mary or Marios.\n\nIn the Orthodox world, specific icons and churches of the Virgin Mary are often given particular names, which reflect certain theological or intercessory aspects of Mary, or certain standardised depictions in hagiography, or peculiarities of the particular church or monastery. Some examples of such names (in Greek) are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1917130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917130", "title": "Electricity Commissioners", "text": "Electricity Commissioners\n\nThe Electricity Commissioners were a department of the United Kingdom government's Ministry of Transport, which regulated the electricity supply industry from 1920 until nationalisation in 1948. It was responsible for securing reorganisation on a regional basis and considered schemes for centralisation in a small number of large generating stations owned by Joint Electricity Authorities.\n\nIn 1917, the UK government was planning the reconstruction of the nation's industries after the First World War. The Board of Trade set up the Electric Power Supply Committee, chaired by Sir Archibald Williamson, which proposed the effective nationalisation of the industry.\n\nSubsequently, in 1919 under the chairmanship of Sir Henry Birchenough, the Advisory Council to the Ministry of Reconstruction produced the Report of the Committee of Chairmen on Electric Power Supply. The committee were asked to submit general comments or suggestions on the broad administrative and commercial issues which had arisen out of the Williamson Report. The Birchenough Committee generally agreed with the Williamson Report but recommended that generation and transmission should be a single unified system with state regulation and finance and that means should be found for including distribution as well. This recommendation was very far-sighted but considered too ambitious by the government. If acted upon it would have anticipated the Electricity Act 1947 by 28 years.\n\nParliament rejected what would have been the effective nationalisation of the industry but enacted two of the committee's recommendations in a weaker form, including the setting up Electricity Commissioners and a number of joint electricity authorities formed by the electricity suppliers in each area.\n\nThe \"Electricity (Supply) Act 1919\", was based essentially on the Williamson and Birchenough reports and introduced central co-ordination by establishing the Electricity Commissioners, an official body responsible for securing reorganisation on a regional basis.\n\nIn 1925 the Commissioners approved a system for the standardisation of electricity supply. The generation and distribution of electricity was undertaken at a range of voltages and frequencies; 109 suppliers provided AC only, 297 DC only, and 176 both AC and DC. Supply voltages ranged from 100 V to >3000 V. The frequency of AC supplies were at 15 different frequencies ranging from 25 Hz to 100 Hz, even at the most common frequency of 50 Hz (supplied by 223 undertakings) some provided single phase, some 2-phase and some 3-phase. The standard proposed by the Commissioners was three-phase AC of 6.6 kV (or 11 kV, 33 kV, 49.5 kV or 66 kV). Lower voltages could be DC or AC. Frequency was to be 50 Hz ± 2.5%.\n\nThe Electricity Commissioners published standards and guidance for electricity installations and reports on conferences and strategic policies for the industry (see Publications section).\n\nThe Electricity Commissioners recognised that their activities had met with limited success, they were involved in many public inquiries and negotiations between electricity undertakings. Their powers of compulsion had been removed from the 1919 Electricity Bill and the period 1920 to 1926 has been characterised as a diagnosis of failure. Some of these issues were addressed by the Weir Committee in 1925 which led to the Electricity (Supply) Act 1926 and the establishment of the Central Electricity Board. The CEB operated alongside the Electricity Commissioners until both were abolished upon nationalisation of the electricity industry on 1 April 1948.\n\nSection 58 of the Electricity Act 1947 gave the Minister the power to dissolve the Electricity Commissioners. The Electricity Commissioners existed for some years after nationalisation, and finally closed in 1953.\n\nFour Joint Electricity Authorities were established after the \"Electricity (Supply) Act 1922\" had empowered then to borrow money to finance electricity schemes.\n\nSee Electricity (Supply) Act 1919. \n\nThe first five Electricity Commissioners were:\n\n\n\nThe Electricity Commissioners published the following reports, standards and guidance material:\n\n\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "1917134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917134", "title": "Sultan Ali Khorasani", "text": "Sultan Ali Khorasani\n\nSultan Ali Khorasani was a 16th-century Persian physician from Khorasan, Persia.\nSultan-‘Ali usually signed his name as Hakim Sultan-Ali Tabib Khurasani -- that is, doctor Sultan-‘Ali, physician of Khurasan (in Persia). \n\nHe practiced medicine for 40 years in Khurasan and in Transoxiana (Central Asia), especially in Samarqand. He began writing his Persian therapeutic manual \"Dastur al-‘ilaj\" in the year 1526 at the request of Abu al-Muzaffar Mahmud-Shah Sultan. \n\nNumerous copies of his manual, which must have been quite popular, are preserved today.\n\nFor his treaties and the few details of his life, see:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917139", "title": "Sea Fencibles", "text": "Sea Fencibles\n\nThe Sea Fencibles were naval fencible (a shortening of \"defencible\") units established to provide a close-in line of defence and obstruct the operation of enemy shipping, principally during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe earliest recorded use of the term was in 1793, when Royal Navy captain Sir Home Popham organised groups of fishermen to guard against French vessels off the coast of Nieuwpoort, Belgium. At Popham's suggestion the British Admiralty subsequently authorised the formation of co-ordinated Sea Fencible units along the English and Irish coasts. From 1804 on they were supported by a network of Martello towers. Popham's Sea Fencible companies consisted of merchant seamen using their own private or commercial vessels, but operating under letters of marque that authorised them to capture enemy ships should opportunity arise. The Navy provided the Fencibles with uniforms and weapons; it also protected them from the depredations of navy press gangs.\n\nThe British Admiralty disbanded its Sea Fencible units in 1810.\n\nRoyal Navy captain Sir Home Popham developed the Sea Fencibles concept while serving as Britain's Agent for Transport in Flanders during the French Revolutionary Wars. In July 1793 Popham went to Ostend to oversee the fleet of Navy transports supplying the British Army. In October a French army of 12,000 men laid siege to the British-held town of Nieuwpoort, which was defended by a garrison of 1,300. French capture of Neiuwpoort would have cleared the path for an assault on the British headquarters at Ostend.\n\nIn support of the Nieuwpoort garrison, Popham armed and equipped the town's fishing fleet and led it in action against French vessels along the coast. In correspondence with the Admiralty Popham named his impromptu fleet the \"Sea Fencibles,\" drawing an analogy with the land-based Scottish Highland Fencible Corps.\n\nAfter three days the French abandoned the siege of Nieuwpoort and withdrew towards Toulon. Both the Army's Commander-in-Chief the Duke of York and field commander General Sir Charles Grey subsequently acknowledged that Popham's actions in \"arming the fishermen of Flanders in defence of their own towns\" had played a significant role in preserving British control of Nieuwpoort.\n\nPopham himself was also impressed with the success of the Sea Fencibles in keeping the coast clear of enemy landing craft. When a French invasion of Britain appeared imminent in 1798, Popham recommended that Admiralty create a similar body to defend the coast between Cornwall and the Firth of Forth. Britain's Sea Fencibles were duly formed on 14 May 1798 \"for the protection of the coast, either on shore or afloat; comprising all fishermen and other persons occupied in the ports, and on the coast, who, from their occupations are to be unpressed.\" Their tasks were to defend the Martello towers along the British coastline, patrol and survey the beaches where a French invasion force might land, and to maintain a fleet of armed commercial vessels in order to capture enemy shipping and defend against invasion barges.\n\nThe Sea Fencibles were divided into 36 companies, with each company responsible for patrolling and defending a section of the coastline. Company command was vested in three Royal Navy captains and up to six Lieutenants per district. The district captains reported in turn to the Director of Sea Fencibles, an admiral.\n\nA senior Sea Fencibles captain received £1 15s a day (equivalent to £ today), junior captains received £1 10s (equivalent to £ today), and Lieutenants 8s 6d (equivalent to £ today). Petty Officers received 2s 6d (equivalent to £ today) for each day they assembled, while Ordinary Seamen received 1 shilling and provisions (food and drink), or 2 shillings if no provisions were available (equivalent to £ and £ today). Sea Fencibles were also eligible to receive prize and salvage money. For example, on 13 June 1805 the sixth-rate frigate and the Sea Fencibles recaptured the \"Industry\", off Hastings, and shared the subsequent salvage money.\n\nSea Fencible volunteers were trained in the use of arms and were required to man watch and signal towers, and fixed and floating batteries along the coasts and ports. Those who operated commercial vessels, for example local fishermen, received up to four cannons per craft and training in their maintenance and use. The Admiralty commissioned a small number of armed vessels for use in districts where there were insufficient private craft to meet a Sea Fencible company's needs. A member of the Sea Fencibles would spend one day a week training. They were also allowed to choose their own Petty Officers at the rate of one per 25 men. All Sea Fencibles received a certificate that exempted them from impressment into the Navy. The Treasury argued that the exemption from impressment was the principal reason smugglers joined as impressment was a common punishment for smuggling.\n\nThe Sea Fencibles operated in accordance with letters of marque authorising the capture of French or Spanish merchant shipping and a share of the proceeds should the seized vessel then be sold. Their fleet consisted of small vessels such as colliers and coasting vessels such as hoys adapted to serve as gunboats. The owners were expected to pay for the fitting of slides, ring and eye bolts for the installation of guns, usually two forward and two aft, and in smaller craft to fit sweeps for use in calms. The Admiralty provided guns, ammunition and powder, and it required the ship owners to keep close and regular accounts of their use. The owners were under orders to co-operate with the Royal Navy, and they were entitled to payment of compensation, according to the size of their ships and the amount of time they were required.\n\nFor instance, on 28 September 1804 the Navy held a meeting with the owners of 16 hoys at Margate. The Navy then hired the vessels for the defence of the coast. The Navy manned each vessel with a regular Navy man as master and nine men from the Sea Fencibles.\n\nSea Fencibles recruitment was brisk with 23,500 volunteers in the first four years. Officer recruitment also proceeded swiftly, particularly among younger captains who lacked the seniority for an ocean-going command. By 1803, one third of Sea Fencibles captains were men promoted to that rank within the preceding twelve months. Sea Fencibles command also offered the prospect of relatively easy service on full pay. For this reason it was appealed to a group of older captains whose Navy careers were near their natural end. The oldest captain, Sir Edmund Nagle, had served at sea for more than three decades before taking command of the Sea Fencibles at Shoreham-by-Sea in 1803.\n\nHome Popham himself was appointed to head up the district between Beachy Head and Deal, the area considered at greatest risk of French invasion. Another Sea Fencible was Francis Austen, a naval captain and future admiral who was the brother of the novelist Jane Austen. He was appointed to raise and organise a corps of Sea Fencibles to defend a strip of the Kentish coast.\n\nOn 13 November 1798 a French privateer appeared off Hastings. Captain E.H. Columbine of the Sea Fencibles put a number of his men on the cutter \"Lion\", offered by a Mr. Wexham, and set out after the French vessel. They caught up with their quarry after a chase and captured her after \"a little firing\" that resulted in the death of one Frenchman. The privateer was the \"Success\", of Cherbourg, Nicholas Dubois, master, with four guns and 24 men. She had been out four days without making any captures. Captain Columbine remarked on the \"zeal and readiness\" of the Hastings men.\n\nA second case occurred on 9 January 1799. The next day Captain Edward Buller, commander of the Sea Fencibles along the coast of Devon, reported that on the previous day, the brig \"Susannah\" had left Dartmouth only to fall prey to the French 14-gun privateer \"Heureux Speculateur\". The Brixham Sea Fencibles. seeing this take place, took a boat, and armed only with muskets and pikes, succeeded in recapturing the \"Susannah\" and her prize crew. Lieutenant Nicholas, with the assistance of Revenue Collector Brooking, who provided small arms and a boat, took another detachment of Sea Fencibles and, accompanied by a boat from the cutter , set off, unsuccessfully, to capture the privateer.\n\nOn 11 March of the same year the Margate Sea Fencibles were somewhat more successful. When a small cutter was observed boarding two brigs eight or nine miles from the North Foreland, 40 or 50 Sea Fencibles pushed off in three boats and recaptured the two brigs, the privateer having made off.\n\nAnother case occurred on 13 June 1804. HM hired armed cutter \"Princess Augusta\", under the command of Lieutenant John Tracey, encountered a 14-gun French privateer off Huntcliff. During the engagement, which lasted nearly four hours, the \"Princess Augusta\" took several shot near the water line and sustained extensive damage to her rigging. Still, she suffered only three men wounded, though one desperately. The French vessel sheered off on the approach of two schooners manned with Sea Fencibles from Redcar. The French privateer reportedly was under the command of a notorious pirate with the name \"Blackman\".\n\nThe Sea Fencibles also acted as a coastguard or lifeboat service. When wrecked in 1800, the Sea Fencibles attempted a rescue. Similarly, in January 1809, when was wrecked at Kingsgate, near Margate, the Sea Fencibles helped rescue the survivors. However, the Navy was not entirely enthusiastic about this role. In late 1804, the Sea Fencibles in Kinsale rescued the crew of a vessel wrecked in the District. Their commander, Commander Terence O'Neill, reimbursed them out of his own pocket, and then applied to the Navy for reimbursement. This was allowed, but William Marsden, First Secretary of the Admiralty, wrote: \"But although the conduct of the persons who exerted themselves on this occasion, in saving the lives and property of their fellow creatures is highly meritorious, it has no relation to the service for which they were enrolled, and the precedent, if followed in all other parts where Sea-Fencibles are established, would occasion a very heavy expense to the public.\"\n\nIn February 1810, when it became clear that the threat of invasion by Bonaparte had passed, the Sea Fencibles were disbanded.\n\nIn 1798 watermen and other groups of river tradesmen on the River Thames voluntarily formed associations of River Fencibles. Officially established in 1803 as \"Corps of River Fencibles of the City of London\", by 1804 they had uniformed commissioned officers in command.\n\nMembers of the Corps escorted the barge carrying the body of Lord Nelson along the Thames in small boats during his state funeral in 1806.\n\nIn 1807 River Fencibles sailed to Copenhagen to help bring back some of the Danish vessels captured there after the second Battle of Copenhagen. The Greenwich River Fencibles consisted of a commandant, three captains, six lieutenants, 24 masters, 24 mates, and 157 gunners and privates. The Government provide pikes, but nothing else, so the men defrayed their own expenses. The Greenwich River Fencibles sent two officers and 126 men to Copenhagen.\n\nThe City of London, Loyal Greenwich, and Royal Harbour River Fencibles also contributed men to the Walcheren expedition in 1809. The Greenwich River Fencibles alone sent two officers and 130 men on the Walcheren expedition, two of whom were killed. In all, about 300 Fencibles volunteered to serve at Copenhagen and about the same number served on the Walcheren Expedition.\n\nThe Corps was disbanded in 1813.\n\nBy Admiralty Order, 20 Sea Fencible units were established and a network of Martello towers constructed to protect the Irish coastline. The number of men and boats per district varied widely and the British had concerns about their reliability, especially given Robert Emmet's insurrection in Dublin in 1803.\n\nIn 1804, the Irish Sea Fencibles had some 28 gun vessels of various sorts - a brig, three galliots, and the rest sloops. Generally these carried two 18-pounder guns and two 18-pounder carronades. The owners usually provided a crew consisting of four men and a boy, with the plan that Sea Fencibles would augment this cadre when the vessels had to put out to sea.\n\nThere were Sea Fencible units attached to the battalions of St. John, Charlotte and Northumberland counties in New Brunswick during the War of 1812 to protect port facilities in the colony. They were raised among seafaring men in coastal communities and seem to have all disbanded after the war.\n\nFrom 1833 to 1867, there was a unit of Saint John Sea Fencibles that functioned primarily as an artillery unit. Its officers and men wore naval uniforms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917146", "title": "Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller", "text": "Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller\n\nIn 1807 Waldmüller attended the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna. He lived in Bratislava and, in 1811, he worked as a teacher of arts for the children of Count Gyulay in Croatia. He returned to the Academy of Vienna and studied portrait painting. In 1814 he married the singer Katharina Weidner, and subsequently went on tour with her, working as a set designer.\n\nIn 1817 he returned to Vienna and spent much time copying the works of old masters and painting portraits, genre subjects, and still-life. In 1823 he made a portrait of Ludwig van Beethoven. Waldmüller later became interested in nature and started painting landscapes, which in their loving attention to detail illustrate Waldmuller's belief that the close study of nature should be the basis of painting. These are his most notable works, in which his sense of colour and knowledge of nature helped him to achieve masterly skill.\n\nIn 1819 he became professor at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna, but was in disputes with the Viennese establishment, most notably for his comments on the system of the academy, where he wanted to establish a focus of the study on nature. His views were in opposition to the official doctrines of ideal art promulgated by the Vienna Academy, and after he had published his works on art education, he was forced to retire in 1857. By 1863 he had been accepted back into the art circles of Vienna, and was knighted in 1865.\n\nFerdinand Georg Waldmüller was one of the most important Austrian painters of the Biedermeier period. Whether it was the conquest of the landscape and thus the convincing rendering of closeness or distance, the accurate characterisation of the human face, the detailed and refined description of textures, or the depiction of rural everyday life: his works – brilliant, explanatory, moralising, and socially critical – influenced a whole generation of artists. Being an advocate of natural observation and plein air painting, as well as a critic of academic painting, Waldmüller was far ahead of his time.\n\nWaldmuller died on 23 August 1865 in Hinterbrühl, Austria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917159", "title": "Midnapore", "text": "Midnapore\n\nMidnapore or Medinipur (Pron: med̪iːniːpur) is a City and a Municipality in the Indian state of West Bengal. It is the headquarters of the Paschim Medinipur district. It is situated on the banks of the Kangsabati River (variously known as Kasai and Cossye).\n\nThere are conflicting accounts of how the name Medinipur came to be. One account claims that Medinipur was named after a local deity \"Medinimata\" (literally \"mother of the world\", a Shakti incarnation).\n\nA number of prehistoric sites of great interest are being excavated throughout the West Midnapore district. In ancient times the region seems to be highly influenced by Jainism and Buddhism. Coins issued by Samudragupta have been found in the near vicinity of the town. The kingdom of Shashanka and Harshavardhana also included part of undivided Midnapore in their kingdom. However, the most significant archaeological site in the region is the bustling port of Tamralipta near present-day Tamluk, a site noted in the travelogues of Faxian and Xuanzang. Later Chaitanya passed through the area on his way from Puri to Varanasi as documented in the \"Chaitanya Charitamrita\". After the fall of last independent Hindu dynasty of Kalinga-Utkala, Gajapati Mukunda Deva in the 16th century, this region came under one of the five Sarkars of Mughalbandi Odisha i.e. Jaleswar Sarkar which was ruled by the Subehdar of Odisha. The north boundary of Jalshwar was Tamluk and south was Soro and Dhalbhumgarh in the west to the Bay of Bengal in the east. Bahadur Khan was the ruler of Jaleshwar Sarkar or Hijli (including Midnapore) during the time of Shah Jehan. He was defeated by Shah Shuja, the second son of Shah Jehan, then the \"subshdar\" of Bengal.\n\nDuring the era of the Muslim rulers of Bengal nawab, Alivardi Khan's general Mir Jafar fought successfully against Mir Habib's lieutenant Sayyid Nur near Midnapore town in 1746. This was part of his campaign to regain Odisha and thwart the Maratha attacks on Bengal. Mir Habib came up from Balasore and was joined by the Marathas, but Mir Jafar fled to Burdwan, leaving Mir Habib to retake Midnapore with ease. Alivardi defeated Janoji Bhosle, a Maratha chieftain, in a severely contested battle near Burdwan in 1747 and Janoji fled to Midnapore. The Marathas held on to Odisha including Midnapore until 1749 when it was reconquered by Alivardi. The Marathas continued to raid Midnapore, which proved disastrous for the residents.\n\nIn 1756, Alivardi died and his successor was Siraj-ud-daulah. On 20 June 1757, he was betrayed by Mir Jafar to the East India Company under the command of Lord Robert Clive at Plassey. This consolidated the Company's hold on Bengal and Odisha (along with Midnapore). The district of Midnapore which included Dhalbhum or Ghatshila, now in Singhbhum, Jharkhand was annexed in 1760 along with Burdwan and Chittagong both handed over to the East India Company by Mir Qasim. The last free king of Dhalbhum was imprisoned in Midnapore town.\n\nSome of the Malla kings of Mallabhum in the Bankura district held land in northern Midnapore district, while the Raj rules of Narajole, Jhargram, Lalgarh, Jamboni, and Chandrakona held sway in their local areas. The Raj rulers in Rajasthan would pay homage to Jagannath but carves out their own territories under the supremacy of the Hindu empires of Odisha.\n\nMidnapore is notable for its contribution in the history of Indian freedom movement since it has produced many martyrs. During the British Raj, the city became a centre of revolutionary activities, such as the Santal Revolt (1766–1767) and the Chuar Revolt (1799). The Zilla School, now known as Midnapore Collegiate School was the birthplace of many extremist activities. Teachers like Hemchandra Kanungo inspired and guided the pupils to participate in the Indian Freedom Movement. Three British District Magistrates were assassinated in succession by the revolutionaries Bimal Dasgupta, Jyothi Jibon Ghosh, Pradyot Kumar Bhattacharya, Prabhakangsu Pal, Mrigan Dutta, Anath Bandhu Panja, Ramkrishna Roy, Braja Kishor Chakraborty, Nirmal Jibon Ghosh. Khudiram Bose and Satyendranath Basu were some of the young men that laid down their lives for the freedom of India. Kazi Nazrul Islam attended political meetings in Midnapore in the 1920s. Raja Narendra Lal Khan, ruler of Narajole, who donated his palace for Midnapore's first college for women, had been implicated, (although it turned out to be false) for planting a bomb.\n\nKhudiram Bose was born in the Habibpur in 1889 and studied at Midnapore Collegiate School up to the eight standard. He was first caught by a policeman for distributing seditious leaflets in Midnapore in 1906. He was an anarchist and protested against the moderate policies of Surendranath Banerjea. Khudiram was sentenced to death for a failed attempt to kill Magistrate Kingsford. Satyendranath was executed on 21 November 1908. Noted freedom fighter and Bengal Province Congress Committee President Birendranath Sasmal practised at the Midnapore High Court.\n\nIt is the place Roy's popularly known as \"Babu's of Jara \" in Jara Ramjibonpur.This Roy Bahadur actual title \"Gangyopadhyay or Ganguly\" was an effective, powerful royal family during British Raj. Among them Sanatan Roy and many such like him freedom fighters got birth.This is also the maternal house of Sir Asutosh Mukherjee who is known as Bengal Tiger and Raja Rammohan Roy called \"The Father of Modern India\".The Bengali Film \"Antony Firingii\" by Uttam Kumar was shot in this palace and the story was also taken from this family. It is also famous for its Durga Puja.\n\nRishi Rajnarayan Basu, one-time tutor of Rabindranath Tagore, Asia's first Nobel Prize winner, was headmaster of the Zila School in 1850. He founded a girls' school, a night school for workers, and a public library. The Rajnarayan Basu Pathagar library is still in existence near Golkuar Chowk.\n\nNot only Hindu activists, but also Muslim statesmen originated or spent time in Midnapore. Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy Second Chief Minister of Bengal during British Period, Prominent member of Awami league, a prominent political party in Bangladesh, and the fifth Prime Minister of Pakistan, hailed from a prominent family of Midnapore.\n\nThe Mallick Zamindars also ruled over an extensively large area during the British rule. They also built the Jagannath Temple of Midnapore. The Zamindari house declined after independence but the palace can still be seen at Mallick Chowk at Barabazaar. The palace also has a Durga manch in it and a Krishna temple in it.\n\nMidnapore is located at and is 23 metres above sea-level.\n\nThe climate follows a hot tropical monsoon weather pattern. Summers last from April to mid-June with diurnal highs ranging from the upper 30s°C to the mid 40s°C and lows in the low 30s°C. Daily heat is often followed by evening rains known as \"kalboishakhis\" or dust-storms (\"loo\"). Monsoon rains can last from mid-June to late August or even September with rains from the southeast monsoon contributing the lion's share of the annual rainfall of around 1500 mm. Winters last for 2 to 3 months and are mild; typical lows are from 8 °C – 14 °C. Allergies are common in winter and spring due to the high content of particulate dust in the air.\n\nSoils near the Kangsabati River are alluvial with a high-degree of clay or sand, whereas soils towards Rangamati are lateritic. Vegetation includes eucalyptus and sal forests on the northwest side of town. The sal forests form part of the Dalma Hills, Bengal-Jharkhand Range. Arabari, the forest range which was the site of India's first Joint Forest Management scheme, is only 30 km away. Elephant attacks on humans are common in this area, although the town itself has never been attacked. Hordes of marauding elephants attacking human habitation in villages in Midnapore district have come as close to the town as Gurguripal, 6 km away.\n\nMidnapore railway station is connected not only to larger cities in the region, but also to smaller towns and villages in the district. This railway station is situated on the Kharagpur–Bankura–Adra line. Many local and passenger trains ply all day between Howrah and Midnapore as well as Adra and Midnapore. Apart from these local trains, many major express trains also pass through Midnapore including the Jhargram-Medinipur Jangalmahal Express, Delhi-Puri Nandan Kanan Express, Howrah-Lokmanya Tilak T Samarsatta Express, Puri-Patna Express, Ernakulam-Patna Express etc. Midnapore is close to Kharagpur, a major hub of the South Eastern Railway is 13 kilometres.\n\nAt present the Midnapore Railway Section is undergoing a development process. The station complex is undergoing modernisation. The platforms are being increased in length. Work is in process to double the railway line between Kharagpur Junction and Midnapore railway station. Apart from an existing railway bridge on the Kangsabati river, a new double line railway bridge has been constructed (carrying traffic from 4 March 2012) to smoothen the railway traffic.\n\nSelected thoroughfares of Midnapore have been expanded and maintained in an ongoing \"Megacity\" project started in 1997. The major roads are now upgraded, well lighted and one way with divider. A long-awaited beautiful flyover connecting rangamati over the railway gate minimised the traffic congestion at rush hours. Some of the smaller roads in the city are still unpaved and are difficult to use during and after the monsoon months. To compound the problems faced by inhabitants there are a limited number of bridges crossing the Kasai River affording entry from Howrah and Kolkata (NH6). Nevertheless, the ongoing construction of the new interstate highway system which passes by Midnapore has reduced the time it takes for inhabitants to reach Kolkata. A set of traffic control signals was recently installed in the city, and this helps control traffic. Motorized and bicycle traffic has been increasing in recent years. Within the city, previously cycle rickshaws were one of the few modes of public transportation since effective lobbying by rickshaw-pullers who depend on this for their livelihood had prevented the introduction of town buses and auto rickshaws. Now auto-rickshaws covering the different routes of the city like Railway station, Vidyasagar University, Amtala, Central bus stand, Battala, golkunwar chawk, sipoy bazar by sharing basis, which is a big boost for the city's development.\n\nElectricity is available, although as in the rest of West Bengal, demand exceeds supply. Power outages are common in the summer and monsoon months, although outages lasting more than an hour are becoming rarer. Most businesses and upper middle-class and rich households have backup generators and batteries that they use in times of outages.\n\nWater is a scarce resource in Midnapore. Most of the water comes from the Kasai river, which is shrinking in size every year due to over-exploitation. The municipal water supply is free but not ample; tap water is available for about an hour twice a day and is stored by those who can, in plastic, metal, or concrete reservoirs or in buckets. The water is of questionable purity prompting the proliferation of individual water purification units.\n\nSewage disposal is another concern. Many of the lower income-communities in the city do not have adequate plumbing and must rely on refuse-collectors to haul out human waste. Not all drains are covered, causing a proliferation of disease causing flies and mosquitoes. Since Midnapore is drier than many other coastal and humid low-lying towns of West Bengal, this problem is not as acute as it.\n\nIn the 2011 census, Midnapore municipality had a population of 169,264, out of which 84,977 were males and 84,287 were females. The 0–6 years population was 15,172. Effective literacy rate for the 7+ population was 88.99 per cent.\n\nThis makes it the second largest city in Paschim Medinipur district after Kharagpur. The city is almost equally divided in terms of population between Hindus and Muslims. The multiple mosques and temples, many predating British rule serve as indication of how co-prevalent the two religions are in this area. It is an important religious spot for the Muslims of India and Bangladesh. Even though the interesting religious mixture would suggest religious tensions, remarkably Midnapore has never witnessed major Hindu-Muslim tensions in recent history.\n\nMidnapore police station has jurisdiction over Midnapore municipality and Midnapore Sadar CD Block.\n\nThe economy of the undivided district, according to 1991 and 2001 census statistics, was overwhelmingly agrarian. Being a district town, Midnapore functioned in an ancillary role for the rural district as an administrative and judicial centre. As such many businesses and services revolved around this role, which naturally, has been adversely affected by the division of the district. Midnapore still fills this role and has more physicians, lawyers, teachers, banks, and administrative offices than any other town in either East or West Midnapore district. The medical sector is thriving with the addition of a Medical college and the Vidyasagar Institute of Health Application. Coaching centres that assist students enrolled in the regular and correspondence courses of Vidyasagar University are also common.\n\nPoorer segments of this semi-rural society are involved in transportation, basic agriculture, small shops and manual labour for construction work.\n\nMidnapore is a municipality with 24 wards and 94,738 registered voters (2003 statistics). For a long period of 32 years, it was under the control of the Left Front, in 2009 Trinamool Congress won the municipality by a margin of 2 wards. Now the number of wards increased to 25 and WARDS are renumbered in 2013.civic election is scheduled to take place on 22 November 2013.\n\nThe Chapaleswar and Mahamaya temples at Karnagarh built in the Odisha style of temple architecture aka Kalinga Architecture, 10 km north of the town, are two of the most popular temples. Both were built in the 10th century by Karna Keshari of Keshari/Soma Vamsi Dynasty of Odisha. This temple is also of historic importance as being a hotspot of the Chuar Revolt during the Indian Independence Movement.\n\nOutstanding Hindu and Jain temples are also located in the village of Pathra, a few kilometres from the town. Hundreds of small temples dating back into antiquity are located here but many are in a state of disrepair due in part to lack of any sort of preservation, succumbing to the waters of the Kasai River, and theft of bricks by locals. An NGO Pathra Archaeological Preservation Committee, founded by Yeasin Pathan, has successfully persuaded the Archaeological Survey of India to restore the temples. 2,000,000 Indian rupees were donated for this cause in 1998 and many of the temples have been restored. Remarkably secluded in location, this archaeological site is rarely visited as it is inaccessible and little known outside of the immediate area.\n.The Jagannath Temple at Nutan Bazar was built in 1851, possibly at the request of a descendant of the Ganga dynasty of Odisha. Other temples from the eighteenth century include the Hanuman-jeu Temple in Mirzabazar, the Shitala temple at Barabazar, and the Habibpur Kali Temple. One of the oldest temples in the town is the Rukmini temple at Nutanbazar which was built in the 17th century. The Ramakrishna Mission also has a temple adjacent to an elementary and high school. The goddess Kali at the Battala temple is an important temple in the locality, but is a more recent addition.\n\nThere are numerous majars and dargahs dotting the city. Jora Masjid is the most notable in the town and is the site of a notable annual urs. Among the majars, Dewan Baba's majar near the District Court and Fakir Kua near the bus terminus are locally revered. According to local legend, the water of the well at Fakir Kua majar has mysterious healing powers, although the veracity of this claim is debatable.\n\nIn the heyday of Brahmo Samaj, Midnapore became a major centre of this society. Rishi Rajnarayan Basu, one of the luminaries in the Brahmo Samaj movement, worked as the head master of the Zilla School. The dilapidated hall of Brahmo Samaj, \"Brahmo Samaj Mandir\" near Midnapore Collegiate School is a silent reminder of the Brahmo presence of yesteryears. Some of the old administrative and educational buildings dating back more than 150 years are still functioning today.\n\nIn case of music, Basanta Banerjee from Salboni's Banerjee family was the first to introduce achordium first time in the town.Moreover, he had his own orchestra which he used to play in programs . There is other classical honoured singers like Biseswar Sarkar, Pandit Kamalendu Chowdhury who made and still making the town melodious by there fame classical voice..\n\nLife, in general, is slow-paced in Midnapore, as a sort of tribute to the \"mofussil\" provincial heart of the city. Midnaporeans in general are laid-back and friendly. It is not uncommon for shops to open late and to close during the hours of the afternoon in the hotter months of the year. Also shops can close for tea and sporting events such as cricket and World Cup football. Tea-shops and paan-stalls abound and there is a high concentration of \"mishtir dokaan\" (sweet-shops). Here you can find one of the very notable sweets in Bengal – 'Khirayer Gogjaa'.\"Adda\" or Bengali gossip is prevalent and widely enjoyed.\n\nThe native local Odia dialect is termed as Midnapori Odia. The local dialect of Bengali is different from standard Kolkata pronunciation and though not as Odia-centric as the dialects of Contai and Dantan, but shows similarities with Odia. Speech is very informal and the \"talebossho\", \"murdhenoshho\", and \"dontesho\" are often pronounced differently from the standardised West Bengal dialect.\n\nA significant fraction of the population of the undivided district descended from Vaishnavites – the followers of Shri Chaitanya – although they follow the rituals and caste system of mainstream Hinduism now. Odia people of Midnapore are native of the place and merged with migrant Bengalis during British occupation to form a unique culture. In fact, since the area was part of Odisha earlier, it is better described as a mix of Bengali and Odia culture. There are Marwari and Bhojpuri speakers and a number of speakers of Hindi in the town as well. Many of the Muslims of the town speak in a pidgin dialect with a mixture of Bengali, Hindi, Urdu, and Bhojpuri words.\n\nSince many Midnaporeans are fond of walking, a number of parks have come up in recent years.Gopegarh Heritage Park is a good picnic spot for families and youth and was opened in 2001. Booking for picnic spot and boating facilities can be arranged at the ticket counter. The most popular park of the town is Sukumar Sengupta Smriti Uddan (popularly known as Police Line Park) which is near to Central Bus Stand. Other parks are Sishu Uddan and Khudiram Park. Many people can also be seen in the cooler morning and evening hours walking near the riverfront.\n\nThere are a number of major theatres in the town including the Aurora, Mahua and Hari Cinema Hall. But Aurora, Mahua are closed now, only Hari Cinema Hall is still running A number of private and government operated halls include the Zilla Parishad Hall, Vivekandanda Hall (inside Midnapore College), and Vidyasagar Hall. These are often the venue for numerous cultural events like the hosting of dramas, concerts, poetry-recitals, and dance programs. Some of these are venues for numerous \"Melas\" or canivals hosted each year on adjacent grounds such as the Midnapore College-collegiate ground, Church School ground (for the Christmas fair), and the river ground (for large political assemblies).\n\nThe bank of Kangsabati River (also variously known as Kasai and Cossye) is great for sightseeing and fishing and a popular destination for picnics during the Christmas and New Year's breaks. Unfortunately the bank is being eroded by new construction, brick-kilns and new communities.\n\nIn the last one year City life, Metro bazzar, reliance trends, Hoffman, like supermarkets have come up and few others to start become the places of time pass and shopping like any other malls in major cities.\n\nMednapore has its unique food culture which people outside the city do not know about. People have their own eating styles which is way different from those living in Kolkata or other parts of the state. There are many amazing dishes and cooking styles which have evolved from this place. Some of the notable ones are \"Maacher Tel Jhal\" cooked in West Midnapore and \"Maacher Tok\", a spicy and tangy dish prepared by using dried mangoes or raw mangoes with the fish which is cooked in the East Midnapore. Another famous and very unique dish is the \"Posto Bati\" which is very different from the \"Posto Bata\" or posto paste (opium seeds) which everyone else in Bengal knows about.\nAlso Khirer Goja is a unique sweet of Midnapore Town.\n\nIn the month of Asadh, (roughly corresponding to mid-September), Rathayatra is celebrated as is the case in the rest of Odisha. A fair is hosted near the local Jagannath temple. And during Christmas, a fair on the grounds of Nirmal Hriday Ashram is well participated. The church is opened to all on this occasion and people from all communities throng the prayer hall to take a glimpse of the beautiful murals narrating the life of Jesus. The resident students recreate the scene of Jesus' birth with clay models.\n\nApart from that, the regular festivals like Durga Puja, Saraswati Puja, and Kali Puja are well attended. In the last few years, local clubs and communities have competed with each other for designing the best Durga Puja \"murtis\" (idols), \"mandaps\" (interior of abode), and \"pandals\" (bamboo and cloth makeshift enclosures) with hundreds of thousands of rupees often being spent by each club. In recent times, the Pujas hosted by Rangamati Sharbajanin Club, Keranitola, Burdge Town, Chottobazaar, Raja Bazaar, Bidhan Nagar, Ashok Nagar, and Judge's Court have been highly rated. Other common Pujas in the worship of Shitala, Jagaddhatri, Holi, Janmashtami, Manasa, Kartika, and Ganesh are common but not such a major cause of celebration.\n\nVishwakarma Puja is remarkably popular in the city. Unlike in Kolkata, Vishwakarma Puja is not celebrated with flying kites. With respect to its tribal history, people in Midnapur fly Kites to celebrate \"Baraam Puja\", the day of a tribal god. This is on the last day of the month of Poush, i.e. Poush Sankranti. Apart from kite-flying, a fair is also held on Poush Sankranti. It has a rural flavour and is characterised by the trading of handicraft and household goods. The items of trade include spades, knives and other iron tools, combs and other goods made of buffalo-horn, baskets (\"jhuri\" and \"dhama\") and platters for husking (\"kula\") made of bamboo and cane, etc. Bheema Puja is another Puja that is not widespread elsewhere.\n\nAnd many more religious festivals are held in Midnapore each year. Urs of the venerated saint Syed Shah Murshed Ali Alquadri Al Jilani son of Syed Shah Mehr Ali Alquadri Al Baghdadi is a major occasion for Bengali Muslims of West Bengal and Bangladesh. This is held each year near the Jora masjid (twin mosques). Milad-un-Nabi is also celebrated with the bursting of fireworks. Many devout Muslims observe fasts during the month of Ramadan, which ends in celebration at Eid ul-Fitr. Eid ul-Adha locally known as \"Bakhri-Eid\" is also celebrated. During the Remembrance of Muharram, processions throng the streets enacting mock stick-fights in remembrance of Husayn ibn Ali.\n\n\n\n\nMany people in Midnapore town enjoy going on walks and are increasingly becoming more health-conscious, a witness to which is the proliferating gyms and clubs.\nThe most notable achievement of a native was by Susmita Singha Roy, who performed at the Olympics in Beijing in 2008. Susmita, who was an ex-student of Aligunj Girls High School, had started her career as a long jumper.\n\nAurobindo Stadium hosts a number of sports events many of which are in association football and are junior National level events. The most notable footballer was Ramananda Mukherjee who was the president of Midnapore Reffery Club for almost 40 years. Now he is retired .Another footballer was Swapan Chakrabarty a great footballer and national level coach. Midnapore's schools and colleges are usually well-ranked in soccer tournaments at a national level. Midnapore Sports Development Authority (MSDA) was involved in constructing a sports complex which includes a modern gymnasium and indoor stadium near Sepoy Bazar. MSDA oversees many of the sporting activities in the town.\n\nEvery year on 23 January, which is the birthday of Indian freedom fighter, Subhas Chandra Bose there is a 10-mile running competition in commemoration.\n\nMidnapore has an All India Radio Relay station known as Akashvani Midnapore. It broadcasts on FM frequencies. A number of local Bengali-language newspapers are circulated from Midnapore; notable among them being \"Biplabi Sabyasachi\", \"Medinipur Times\", \"Chhapa Khabor\" and \"Dainik Upatyaka\". The District Library of the Midnapore district is located in the city. The other notable library is Rishi Rajnarayan Library.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917160", "title": "VMFA-323", "text": "VMFA-323\n\nMarine Fighter Attack Squadron 323 (VMFA-323) is an aviation unit of the United States Marine Corps. The squadron is equipped with the McDonnell Douglas F/A-18C Hornet and is based at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, California, United States. It falls under the command of Marine Aircraft Group 11 (MAG-11) and the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing (3rd MAW) but deploys with the U.S. Navy's Carrier Air Wing 17 (CVW-17).\n\nVMF-323 was commissioned 1 August 1943 at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, North Carolina. According to oral history, the squadron got its name from three fighter pilots who killed a rattlesnake and hung its skin in the squadron's ready room. VMF-323 began training in F4U Corsairs almost immediately for combat in the Pacific theater of World War II. Much of the new squadron's training was done at Marine Corps Air Station El Centro and Marine Corps Air Station Camp Pendleton, California. In July 1944, the \"Death Rattlers\" departed for the Pacific aboard . For the next nine months, VMF-323 flew training missions from secure island bases in the South Pacific.\n\nOn 9 April 1945, the \"Death Rattlers\" flew into Kadena airfield in support of Operation Iceberg during the Battle of Okinawa. Combat operations commenced the following day. Between then and the Japanese surrender in August, the \"Death Rattlers\" racked up 124 Japanese planes shot down without a single loss. Twelve \"Death Rattlers\" became aces.\n\nAfter the war, the \"Death Rattlers\" were based at Marine Corps Air Station El Toro, where they conducted training exercises. It was around this time that the squadron appeared in the 1949 movie \"Sands of Iwo Jima\".\n\nWhen the Korean War began in 1950, VMF-323 began combat operations from as part of Marine Aircraft Group 33 (MAG-33), supporting ground forces in the Battle of Pusan Perimeter, Battle of Inchon, Battle of Chosin Reservoir and almost every other major campaign of the conflict. During action near Kosong, on 11 August 1950, a VMF-323 Corsair pilot, Captain Vivian M. Moses, became the first Marine aviator killed in Korea. The unit also took part in the attack on the Sui-ho Dam in June 1952.\n\nThe squadron was re-designated Marine Attack Squadron 323 (VMA-323) in June, 1952. The \"Death Rattlers\" left Korea in July 1953. Once back home, the squadron began flying the F9F Panther and then the F9F Cougar, a swept-wing version of the Panther. In 1956 the squadron adopted the FJ-4 Fury, with which it deployed to the western Pacific in 1957. That year, the \"Death Rattlers\" flew armed patrols over the Quemoy and Matsu islands to support Chinese nationalist forces.\n\nThe squadron was reestablished at MCAS El Toro and received its first F8U Crusaders in the summer of 1958. it trained in 1958 and 1959 was then assigned to .\n\nIn 1964, the squadron returned to MCAS Cherry Point, where they received their present designation of Marine Fighter Attack Squadron 323 (VMFA-323). This same year, the \"Death Rattlers\" began flying the F-4 Phantom II. During the Dominican Crisis in 1965, the \"Death Rattlers\" provided air cover while American citizens were evacuated.\n\nAs the United States grew closer to war in South Vietnam, the \"Death Rattlers\" deployed to Da Nang Air Base beginning on October 25, 1965. Combat operations started the day after they arrived. The squadron lost its first aircraft a week after they arrived when the squadron's executive officer was shot down by a surface-to-air missile over North Vietnam. It was the only Marine F-4 felled by a SAM during the war. 323 remained in Vietnam until 1969, flying combat sorties from Da Nang and Chu Lai.\n\nThe squadron embarked on its only aircraft carrier cruise in the F-4 Phantom in November 1979 aboard . After liberty stops in, Korea, Thailand, and Singapore, \"Coral Sea\" arrived in the Arabian Sea in January 1980 flying protection caps for \"Coral Sea\" and . On 24 April 1980, VMFA-323 was prepared to fly combat missions into southern Iran in support of US hostages rescue attempt Operation Eagle Claw with the mission to shoot down any Iranian combat aircraft that attempted to take off. When Operation Eagle Claw failed, VMFA-323 F-4s flew missions around the clock until all US support ships had exited the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. The squadron was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation for its service. The squadron arrived back at Subic Bay, RP after 102 straight days at sea. \nOn 14 September 1982, VMFA-323 transitioned to its current aircraft, the F/A-18 Hornet. In October 1985, the squadron deployed again aboard \"Coral Sea\", this time to the Mediterranean Sea. In spring of 1986 during freedom of navigation exercises held in international waters and airspace off the coast of Libya. On 15 April 1986, the squadron provided SAM suppression and fighter Combat Air Patrol (CAP) sorties during Operation El Dorado Canyon.\n\nIn 1994, 1995, 1997, 1999, and 2001 the \"Death Rattlers\" flew missions in support of Operation Southern Watch.\n\nOn 2 November 2002, VMFA-323 deployed aboard as part of CVW-2 to conduct Operation Southern Watch. While on this deployment, the Death Rattlers transitioned from Operation Southern Watch to Operation Iraqi Freedom conducting sorties into Baghdad on the first night of the war.\n\nOn 2 May 2005, two F/A-18C Hornet fighter jets from VMFA-323, BuNo 164721 and BuNo 164732, collided over south-central Iraq, during a sortie from , killing the executive officer and a junior officer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917167", "title": "St Pancras North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "St Pancras North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSt. Pancras North was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first-past-the-post system of election. It was created in 1885 and abolished in 1983 with the area becoming part of the new constituency of Holborn and St Pancras.\n\n1918–1950: The Metropolitan Borough of St Pancras wards of one and two, and the part of ward number three lying to the north and west of a line running along the middle of Camden Road from a point where that road is intersected by the eastern boundary of the metropolitan borough to the point where that road crosses the Regent's Canal and thence westward along the middle of that canal to the western boundary of Ward number three.\n\n1950–1974: The Metropolitan Borough of St Pancras wards of one, two, three and four.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Camden wards of Camden, Chalk Farm, Gospel Oak, Grafton, Highgate, and St John's.\n\nCochrane-Baillie was elevated to the peerage as Lord Lamington.\n\n<section begin=\"General Election February 1974\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election February 1974\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election October 1974\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election October 1974\"/>\n"}
{"id": "1917178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917178", "title": "International Kickboxing Federation", "text": "International Kickboxing Federation\n\nThe International Kickboxing Federation (IKF) is one of the oldest and the largest professional sanctioning organizations of kickboxing and Muay Thai in the world and is based in the United States. The IKF sanctions and regulates all aspects of these sports from Semi Contact ( IKF Point Kickboxing (IKF/PKB) ) to Full Contact in both Amateur and Professional levels. The IKF World Headquarters located in Newcastle, California, USA oversees over 2,000 IKF events a year around the world.\n\n\"The goal of the International Kickboxing Muay Thai Federation is to regulate safe and fair rules and regulations and help provide exposure and opportunities for local, regional, national and international competition among Pro and Amateur Kickboxing and Muay Thai fighters, trainers, promoters and officials. We will, through adherence to and enforcement of these rules and regulations, strive to make competitive Kickboxing and Muay Thai fighting a safe and fair sport as we continue to help bring exposure to and enhance the present as well as the future of the sport we serve around the world, Kickboxing and Muay Thai.\"\n\nIKF sanctions and regulates both professional and amateur Kickboxing and Muay Thai around the world in six different rule styles:\n\nThe IKF has both male and female titles (State, Regional, National, Continental, Intercontinental and World) and both Pro and Amateur rankings.\n\nThe IKF was established in July 1992 by Steve Fossum and Dan Stell based on their knowledge and experience as former kickboxers, trainers and event promoters.\n\nIn July, of 1996, Mr. Stell parted ways with the IKF as Vice President to pursue other desires. In December 1996, the IKF launched a website with news updates for various events, worldwide rankings, rules and regulations.\n\nIn 1998, the IKF expanded into the United Kingdom AND began sanctioning events in England, Scotland, Wales, Ireland and other European countries.\n\nIn 2007, Neil Holden took the position of Director for IKF Europe for a while. Replacing Holden was Carl Sams and Colin Payne, both previously in charge of IKF Full Contact activity in the United Kingdom. Both are part of the IKF Europe Team. They are currently foCusing on growth and activity in the United Kingdom as Co-Directors for IKF Europe under all IKF rule styles.\n\nThe IKF has developed into a global organization under the direction of Steve Fossum and others associated with the IKF World Team. Along with this growth was the creation of the IKF Amateur Tournaments. The IKF created the first amateur kickboxing tournament in the United States in 1999, the IKF USA National Championships. The annual event grew to a North American Championships in 2004 and eventually into the IKF World Classic in 2006. Today the IKF World Classic is one of the largest all AMATEUR Muay Thai and Kickboxing Championship tournaments in the world.\n\nFossum is also the President of the first ever Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) sanctioning body, International Sport Combat Federation (ISCF) and is the President and CEO of The International Fight Sports (IFS) which oversees several Fight Sport Companies who have a mutual goal of fostering national and international Professional and Amateur fight sport competition through the sanctioning of Fight Sports.\n\nIKF Rules & Regulations cover all medical requirements from the fighter to the ringside medical staff.\nThe IKF requires a doctor and at least two paramedics equipped with resuscitation equipment to be on site for all sanctioned events.\n\nOn March 17, 2014, the California State Athletic Commission officially delegated to the IKF, International Kickboxing Federation the exclusive authority to regulate Amateur Kickboxing and Muay Thai (Ages 8 and Up) in the State of California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917182", "title": "Kamayo language", "text": "Kamayo language\n\nKamayo (Kinamayo or alternatively spelled as Camayo), also called Kadi, Kinadi, or Mandaya, is a minor Austronesian language of the central eastern coast of Mindanao in the Philippines.\n\nSpoken by some areas of Surigao del Sur (the city of Bislig and the municipalities of Barobo, Hinatuan, Lingig, Tagbina, Lianga, San Agustin & Marihatag) and Davao Oriental, Kamayo varies from one municipality to another. Lingiganons are quite different from other municipalities on the way they speak the Kamayo language. \"Ethnologue\" also reports that Kamayo is spoken in the Agusan del Sur Province border areas, and in Davao Oriental Province between Lingig and Boston.\n\nKamayo is a language widely used by the Mandayas in the Davao Oriental areas. It is closely related to Tandaganon and Surigaonon. Dialect variations are caused by mixed dialect communications such as the Cebuano language in barangays Mangagoy & Pob. Bislig. The towns of Barobo, Hinatuan, and Lingig has a distinct version spoken. A suffix is usually added in most adjectives in superlative forms; for example, the word \"\"gamay\"\" in Cebuano (English: small) is \"gamayay\" while the word \"\"dako\"\" (English: big) is spoken as \"dako-ay\" in Bislig.\n\nDialects are classified as North Kamayo and South Kamayo (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nCommon phrases\n"}
{"id": "1917186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917186", "title": "Martin XB-68", "text": "Martin XB-68\n\nThe Martin XB-68 was a supersonic medium tactical bomber with a crew of two that was proposed in 1954 to the United States Air Force. The project, however, was canceled before any aircraft were built.\n\nThe Glenn L. Martin Company submitted design studies in response to the Weapon System 302A requirement in 1952 in competition with proposals from Douglas Aircraft Company and North American Aviation, Inc. Revised designs were presented again in 1954. The Boeing Airplane Company also submitted a design after the competition date had passed and was automatically rejected. The Martin 316 was declared the winner in 1956 and received the designation XB-68. Deployment was projected for the 1962-1965 period.\n\nWith a conventional layout that somewhat resembled a scaled-up Lockheed F-104, the XB-68 was to have been primarily of steel construction, with the crew of a pilot-radio operator and navigator-bombardier defense systems operator in a pressurized compartment, to be cooled by filtered bleed-air from the engines, and a refrigeration unit for evaporative cooling at high Mach numbers. The B-68 would have had stubby diamond-shaped wings and a raked T-tail empennage. It was intended to be operated at supersonic speeds at medium and high altitudes.\n\nThe design immediately ran into serious difficulties over the inertial guidance bombing and navigation system, which, had the bomber been approved for production, would have pushed deployment back to at least 1963. The problems were rendered moot when Air Force headquarters cancelled the project in 1957, citing stringent budget limitations and higher priorities for other weapon systems. Recognizing that the medium tactical bomber design was still years away, plans were carried forward instead to continue using an Air Force version of the Navy's Douglas A3D, which was designated B-66 Destroyer. Two planned XB-68 prototypes and one static test model were cancelled, and none were built.\n\nThe chosen power plant was two Pratt & Whitney J75 (JT4B-21) axial-flow turbojets of static sea level thrust each with afterburner, providing a maximum speed of at altitude at maximum power and a combat speed of at altitude at maximum power. Combat range was planned for with payload at average speed in 4.15 hours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917187", "title": "List of names and terms of address used for Charles de Gaulle", "text": "List of names and terms of address used for Charles de Gaulle\n\nIn France, Charles de Gaulle is called or referred to with different names, depending on who is talking, and possibly what the feelings of the person talking about De Gaulle are. This article gives a list of several names and terms of address used in France with respect to him.\n\nCharles de Gaulle, when he was fighting with his Free French forces, and when he was president, was a somewhat controversial person, and, to some extent, the way he was referred to indicated the political leanings of the speaker. While the political controversies have now largely ceased, some distinctions are still relevant today (for instance, the use of \"le Général\" almost always indicates that the speaker is a nostalgic Gaullist supporter).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917188", "title": "Nabil Shaban", "text": "Nabil Shaban\n\nNabil Shaban (born 12 February 1953) is a Jordanian-British actor and writer. He founded The Graeae—a theatre group which promotes performers with disabilities.\n\nShaban was born in Amman, Jordan. He was disabled by the brittle bone disease osteogenesis imperfecta and was sent to England for medical care, where he grew up in a series of hospitals and residential homes. He studied at the University of Surrey in the late 1970s and contributed to the Students' Union newspaper \"Bare Facts\". In 1997, Shaban was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the university for services in the promotion of Disability Arts.\n\nOne of his most memorable television roles was that of the reptilian alien Sil in the BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". Shaban played Sil in two serials: \"Vengeance on Varos\" (1985) and \"Mindwarp\" (1986), and created Sil's laugh. He reprised the role in the Big Finish audio dramas \"Mission to Magnus\" (2009) and \"Antidote to Oblivion\" (2013), both again written by Philip Martin.\n\nHe has appeared in several films, including \"Born of Fire\" (1983), \"City of Joy\" (1992), Derek Jarman's \"Wittgenstein\" (1993), \"Gaias børn\" (1998), and \"Children of Men\" (2006), and has also worked as part of the Crass Collective. In 2011, he played the Roman emperor Constantius II at the National Theatre in Ibsen's \"Emperor and Galilean\".\n\nIn 2003 he made a TV documentary titled \"The Strangest Viking\" (part of Channel 4's \"Secret History\" series), in which Shaban explored the possibility that Viking chieftain Ivar the Boneless may have had osteogenesis imperfecta, the same condition he himself has. Shaban has also published a trilogy of Ivar the Boneless screenplays on Kindle, representing the Viking chieftain as a disabled Danish prince with brittle bones and unable to walk.\n\nShaban was nominated Best Actor in Scottish theatre in 2005, by the Critics' Awards for Theatre in Scotland (CATS), for his role as Mack the Knife in Bertolt Brecht's \"Threepenny Opera\", a Theatre Workshop (Edinburgh) production. Shaban lost out to rival nominee David Tennant, who was about to become the new Doctor Who.\n\nShaban's play \"The First To Go\" premièred in May 2008, produced by Edinburgh's Benchtours Theatre Company in association with Sirius Pictures. It opened at the Lyceum Theatre in Edinburgh on 23 May and toured to the Tron Theatre, Glasgow; the Byre Theatre, St Andrews and Lawrence Batley Theatre, Huddersfield.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917190", "title": "Jean Denis Attiret", "text": "Jean Denis Attiret\n\nJean Denis Attiret (, 31 July 1702 – 8 December 1768) was a French Jesuit painter and missionary to China.\n\nAttiret was born in Dole, France. He studied art in Rome and made himself a name as a portrait painter. While a Jesuit novice, he did paintings in the Cathedral of Avignon and the Sodality Chapel.\n\nHe went to China in 1737 and was given the title \"Painter to the Emperor\" by the Qianlong Emperor. Because the emperor insisted on the use of a Chinese painting methods and styles, Attiret's painting eventually became entirely Chinese in style. Most of his works were paintings of natural subjects such as trees, fruit, fish and other animals done on glass or silk. But they also include portraits of members of the imperial family and court; altogether he is credited with at least 200 portraits.\n\nAfter successful military campaigns in Central Asia, the Qianlong Emperor commissioned depictions of the battles. The work was carried out by four Jesuit artists, among them Attiret. The group produced 16 tableaux, which were engraved in France in 1774, 6 years after Attiret's death in Beijing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917191", "title": "Gilbert Mabbot", "text": "Gilbert Mabbot\n\nGilbert Mabbot, alternately Mabbott (1622—c. 1670), was the official licenser of the press from 1647 to 1649 and himself a pioneering journalist and publisher of newsbooks during the English Civil War period.\n\nMabbot was the son of Edward Mabbot, a cobbler or cordwainer from Nottingham and had been appointed in 1643 as an assistant to John Rushworth who was clerk-assistant to the House of Commons and later Secretary to the Army. Mabbot became a prolific writer of newsletters to individual correspondents and assisted Rushworth in compiling the \"Historical Collections\" as a contemporary history of the civil war period. He appears to have assisted Samuel Pecke in compiling the \"Perfect Diurnall\" newsbook from 1642 to 1655.\n\nRushworth had gathered much of his material from the primitive newsbooks which pioneered the publication of news, and which he encountered as part of his service as a licenser of the press. He used his influence to appoint Mabbot as his deputy from March 1645. Both were dismissed in March 1647 but Mabbot was appointed as Rushworth's successor on 30 September 1647 after a request from Thomas Fairfax, Commander-in-Chief of the Parliamentary Army. It is possible Mabbot was an ally of the Levellers, an important faction in the Army who wanted to declare a Republic, abolish the House of Lords, and institute a government which was purely democratic over the whole sphere of public life.\n\nAs licenser, Mabbot had the power to withhold a license to publish from those newsbooks which displeased him; however, he was progressively less successful. His name frequently appears on newsbooks of the period but was often used without his permission. He used his power to attempt to suppress the \"Moderate Intelligencer\" of John Dillingham in June 1648 after Dillingham inserted a brief sentence of French in the issue of 11 May 1648: \"Dieu nous donne les Parlements briefe, Rois de vie longue.\" Mabbot in addition made arrangements with the printers who had handled the \"Moderate Intelligencer\" to print in its stead a newsbook more in tune with Army policy. This he called \"The Moderate\" and numbered as if a continuation of the \"Moderate Intelligencer\", even declaring \"I have laid down my former title of 'Moderate Intelligencer' and do go by another, viz. 'The Moderate'\". However, he was thwarted by Dillingham finding an alternative printer and successfully appealing to the House of Lords to stop Mabbot confusing his readers. Publication of \"The Moderate\" was moved to a different day of the week. It eagerly supported the abolition of the monarchy and welcomed the beheading of King Charles I; its account of the King's funeral is the most complete.\n\nMabbot was either dismissed or resigned his position as licenser of the press in May 1649, John Rushworth resuming his previous duties. During the Commonwealth Mabbot held important posts as official agent for the town of Leith and as supplier of news to the city of Kingston upon Hull. He was the brother-in-law of Sir William Clarke, Secretary to the Army, and kept in touch with him as a news source; he also regularly corresponded with Henry Cromwell, Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.\n\nAfter the restoration of King Charles II, Mabbot obtained in January 1661 the office of manager for licences of wines and strong waters in Ireland. He moved to Dublin where his attempts to enforce licensing led to a complaint from members of the Holy Trinity Guild against his aggression. As a result of this complaint he agreed to surrender his office to the crown in June 1664 in return for £4,800. Mabbot appears to have died in around 1670 when he was named in an Irish Chancery suit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917193", "title": "Choose and Book", "text": "Choose and Book\n\nChoose and Book was an E-Booking software application for the National Health Service (NHS) in England which enabled patients needing an outpatient appointment to choose which hospital they were referred to by their general practitioner (GP), and to book a convenient date and time for their appointment.\n\nOriginally designed simply as an electronic booking system, Choose and Book was developed to enable patient hospital choice. It was introduced into the NHS from 2005 onwards. It was procured as part of the National Programme for IT (NPfIT) in 2003. The contract was awarded to Schlumberger Limited's Sema division just before its acquisition by Atos Origin. The software is based on Cerner Corporation's \"Millennium\" e-Booking software.\n\nSurgery where immediate treatment is required is not in the remit of Choose and Book since such patients' needs bypass any longer-term queuing systems.\n\nChoose and Book has been replaced by the NHS e-Referral Service which was to have started in 2014 but was postponed until 2015 after it failed an assessment by the Government Digital Service.\n\nIn its fully functional mode, Choose and Book communicated electronically between \"compliant\" GP Clinical Computer systems and Directly Bookable Hospital Patient Administration Systems (PAS) to enable GPs to shortlist appropriate services for their patients. This enabled patients to either book their appointment at their GP practice, call the national appointments line (originally on 0845 60 88888, and changed to 0345 60 88888 in mid-2010) or book their appointment online through the HealthSpace website. \"Directly Bookable Services\" refers to hospitals using Choose and Book compliant PAS systems. In this mode Choose and Book 'harvests' and displays appointment slots directly from the Hospital PAS for users to book directly into.\n\nFor a number of reasons a number of GP and hospital PAS Systems had not been made compliant in time to deliver the initial Choose and Book targets set by the Department of Health. Interim solutions were devised in 2005/6 to allow patients to benefit from Choose and Book where systems were not compliant.\n\n\nThe roll-out of Choose and Book in 2005 and 2006 suffered a number of delays; some technical because of its dependency on other NPfIT work streams, partly through functional problems in early releases, and partly through clinicians' concerns about additional workload.\n\nThere were conflicting views about its effectiveness, both from a technical viewpoint (it is hard to distinguish between bugs in CaB and the systems with which it interfaces) and a service perspective (some users argue that it undermines existing good practice, while others praise the convenience and reduced delays it offers to patients). A 2006 survey (published 2008) found that the majority of patients were not experiencing the degree of choice that the system was designed to deliver.\n\nTo increase the uptake of Choose and Book by doctors in England, surgeries were offered a financial incentive for the first part of 2006, but it continued to suffer from adverse publicity in the medical press and resistance from a number of GPs.\n\nAs the application became more stable during 2005 and 2006, booking volumes increased, albeit more slowly than planned. At December 2006, over 1.5M patients had used Choose and Book. By the end of October 2008, this had risen to over 10M bookings, with daily figures of over 20,000. All primary care trusts in England were live with Choose and Book (although that might only be one GP within a PCT or practice), while all NHS acute trusts and a large number of independent sector hospitals used Choose and Book. At 28 October 2008, 93% of practices were providing the service, and while some PCTs are only seeing low volumes (30% and less in some cases), many were booking 70 to 80% of patients using Choose and Book.\n\nUse reached a high point nationally of 57% of referrals in the first two months of 2010. As incentive schemes were scaled back there was a drop in use to 50% at the start of 2012. When the system was turned off in June 2015 it was used by 40,000 patients every day.\n\nIn January 2007 private Hospitals started making their services directly bookable to GPs whose PCT had commissioned their services. From April 2007, the 'Extended Choice Network' included all NHS foundation trusts and independent sector hospitals accredited by the Department of Health as meeting NHS quality and cost criteria. This meant that a GP could, via CaB, offer their patients the choice of four or more local providers, and the option of any Foundation Trust or accredited independent sector hospital in England. The Government's intention was that when patients were able to choose between their local NHS Hospital and any accredited private hospital in England, standards would rise (known as 'contestability'). In March 2007 the first independent sector hospitals became available as directly bookable options from within Choose and Book.\n\nFrom April 2008, 'Free Choice' policy meant that patients could choose from any clinically appropriate and accredited provider in England. Since the deployment of Release 4.0 of the application in May 2008, referrers could select from two menus: \"Search Primary Care\", which only showed services provided by the PCT or by smaller local providers, or \"Search All\", which showed services provided by all accredited providers in England. One criticism of this policy is that patients and their referring clinicians needed more meaningful information to make a genuinely informed choice, some of which is provided by the NHS website \"Find and Choose a Hospital\" comparison feature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917195", "title": "Serge Dedina", "text": "Serge Dedina\n\nSerge Dedina is the current mayor of Imperial Beach, California and Executive Director of Wildcoast, a non-profit environmentalist group. A member of the Democratic Party, he was elected 18th Mayor of Imperial Beach in 2014.\n\nDedina was born in 1964 in Los Angeles, California to a Jewish father and a British mother. Dedina moved to Imperial Beach in 1971 and attended elementary, middle, and high school there. Dedina went on to study at the University of California, San Diego graduating with a B.A. in political science. Dedina also has an M.S. in geography from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a Ph.D. in geography from the University of Texas at Austin. Dedina lives in Imperial Beach with his wife Emily and sons Daniel and Israel. Dedina is a former lifeguard and self-proclaimed avid surfer. Apart from his mayoral duties, Dedina manages Wildcoast at its Imperial Beach headquarters.\n\nHe is the former Northwest Mexico Program Manager for The Nature Conservancy's Baja California Program. In his capacity as director Dedina lobbied for the development of the San Lorenzo Marine Archipelago National Park in Baja California, Mexico.\n\nIn 1988, Dedina successfully lobbied the Mexican government for San Ignacio Lagoon, a gray whale breeding zone, to be included in the El Vizcaíno Biosphere Reserve.\n\nIn 2005, Dedina's Wildcoast launched a media campaign starring former Playboy Playmate Dorismar in a series of provocative posters proclaiming \"Sea turtle eggs DO NOT increase sexual potency!\" The advertisements featured Dorismar in revealing thong underwear exposing her bare buttocks. These advertisements drew ire from women's rights groups, and several environmental groups refused to be associated with the campaign.\n\nIn 2016, Dedina issued a citywide proclamation declaring Imperial Beach to be a \"Welcoming City\" and directed \"city departments to [...] help provide services to families legally relocating to the City of Imperial Beach.\" Many Imperial Beach residents interpreted the language of the proclamation as a veiled attempt at labeling Imperial Beach as a Sanctuary city. Due to a large outpouring of community outrage the Mayor was forced to rescind his proclamation after significant citizen backlash at an open city forum.\n"}
{"id": "1917208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917208", "title": "List of things named after Charles de Gaulle", "text": "List of things named after Charles de Gaulle\n\nIn France, and around the world, many things have been named after Charles de Gaulle.\n\nMany streets and public buildings in France bear the name of Charles de Gaulle. They include:\n\nDe Gaulle is also commemorated outside France, particularly in street names. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917221", "title": "Statsraad Lehmkuhl", "text": "Statsraad Lehmkuhl\n\nStatsraad Lehmkuhl is a three-masted barque rigged sail training vessel owned and operated by the Statsraad Lehmkuhl Foundation. It is based in Bergen, Norway and contracted out for various purposes, including serving as a school ship for the Royal Norwegian Navy (using RNoN's prefix \"HNoMS\").\n\nIt was built in 1914 by Joh. C. Tecklenborg ship yard in Geestemünde as a school training ship for the German merchant marine under the name Grossherzog Friedrich August. After the First World War the ship was taken as a prize by the United Kingdom and in 1921 the ship was bought by former cabinet minister Kristofer Lehmkuhl (hence the name, which means \"Cabinet Minister Lehmkuhl\"). With the exception of the Second World War, when she was captured by German troops and called \"Westwärts\", the ship has belonged to Bergens Skoleskib until it was donated to the Foundation in 1978.\n\nIn 2000, she was chartered by the German Navy while their \"Gorch Fock\" was overhauled.\n\nThe three sister ships of \"Statsraad Lehmkuhl\" also survive:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917222", "title": "Witte Wieven", "text": "Witte Wieven\n\nIn Dutch mythology and legends, the Witte Wieven (also known as Wittewijven) are spirits of \"wise women\" (or else elven beings). The mythology dates back at least to the pre-Christian era (7th century) and was known in the present-day regions of the Netherlands, Belgium and parts of France. In some places they were known as \"Juffers\" or \"Joffers\" (\"ladies\"), or as \"Dames Blanches\" (White Ladies) in French.\n\n\"Witte wieven\" in modern Dutch literally translates to \"white women\", but originally meant \"wise women\" in dialects of Dutch Low Saxon. \"Wit\" or \"witte\" meant wise in a way similar to the English \"witty\". Witte wieven is still often translated to \"white woman\", as the words come from the same roots. The association of wise women with the color white was either an accidental translation error, or a symbolic color association for wisdom (sources differ).\n\nHistorically, the witte wieven are thought to be wise female herbalists and medicine healers who took care of people's physical and mental ailments. It was said they had the talent for prophecy and looking into the future. They had a high status in the communities, and so when they died ceremonies were held at their grave sites to honour them. \n\nAccording to mythology, their spirits remained on earth, and they became living spirits (or elven beings) that either helped or hindered people who encountered them. They tended to reside in the burial sites or other sacred places. It was thought that mist on a gravehill was the spirit of the wise woman appearing, and people would bring them offerings and ask for help. \n\nWhile many scholars believe Witte Wieven originated as above from honoring graves of wise women, others think the mythology of witte wieven come from part of the Germanic belief in disen, land wights, and/or alven (Dutch for \"elf\") for several reasons: The practice of bringing offerings and asking for help from their graves is very similar to honoring disen, land wights and alfen in Germanic paganism. In addition, in some localities the mythological witte wieven were described directly as \"Alfen\" or \"Alven\".\n\nJacob Grimm mentioned them in the \"Deutsche Mythologie\" (1835) as the Dutch variant of the German Weiße Frauen: \"The people of Friesland, Drenthe and the Netherlands have just as much to tell of their \"witten wijven\" or \"juffers\" in hills and caverns ... though here they get mixed up with elvish personages.\"\n\nAt first, early medieval literature described the witte wieven more like pranksters and pests. Later Christian teaching transformed the idea of a \"witte wieven\" into \"mistflarden\" (wisps of mist or fog): ghost witches — recharacterized as evil and to be avoided. \n\nIn certain legends \"Alvinne\" was a ghost in a white cloak.\n\nThe following places were named after witte wieven, and report witte wieven legends:\n\nIn the Netherlands:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917240", "title": "Hansel Mieth", "text": "Hansel Mieth\n\nHansel Mieth (1909–1998) was a German-born photojournalist who worked on the staff of LIFE Magazine. She was best known for her social commentary photography which recorded the lives of working class Americans in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nShe was born Johanna Mieth in Oppelsbohm, Germany, one of three daughters of a strict, religious family. She ran away from home at the age of 15 and did factory work before emigrating to the United States in 1930 to join her lover and fellow photographer Otto Hagel (1909–1973). The couple found themselves in the midst of the Great Depression and worked as migrant farm labourers for several years. During that time they began to photograph the brutal working conditions and suffering they saw around them, after acquiring a second-hand Leica camera. In San Francisco, Sacramento, and in the rural towns they worked in, they photographed the bitter labour strikes and the working homeless. They were involved with the San Francisco Film and Photo League during the early 1930s. They also became acquainted with working photographers and began to sell their own photographs to magazines.\n\nIn 1937 Mieth joined the staff of LIFE Magazine (only the second woman photographer to do so), and she and Otto (whom she married in 1940), moved to New York. He was then still a German citizen, so in order to escape internment during the Second World War the couple fled to a remote ranch near Santa Rosa in northern California. Mieth continued to accept photography assignments for LIFE, while Hagel never left the Singing Hills Ranch.\n\nDuring World War II Mieth photographed Japanese Americans who had been taken from their homes and interned by the Roosevelt government. In the early 1950s, the couple's refusal to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee (where they would have been required to name names of their friends in the labour movement) led to Mieth's losing her job at LIFE, and to their being unofficially blacklisted. Shunned by their former friends, the couple retired to their ranch in California where they raised livestock and where Mieth took up painting. She died in Santa Rosa California in 1998.\n\nMieth's life story was told in a one-hour documentary titled \"Hansel Mieth: Vagabond Photographer,\" directed by Nancy Schiesari, which aired on PBS' Independent Lens series in 2003.\n\nThe full archive of Hansel Mieth's work is located at the Center for Creative Photography (CCP) at the University of Arizona in Tucson, which also manages the copyright of her work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917241", "title": "Johann Michael Rottmayr", "text": "Johann Michael Rottmayr\n\nJohann Michael Rottmayr (11 December 1656 – 25 October 1730), was an Austrian painter.\n\nRottmayr was born in Laufen an der Salzach, Bavaria. Along with his Laufen-born contemporary, Hans Adam Weissenkircher, he received his education from Johann Carl Loth in Venice. Just as Weissenkircher had brought the Italian Renaissance to the Southern Alps and the court of the Princes of Eggenberg in Graz, Rottmayr brought it north of the Alps. From 1689 onwards, he worked in Salzburg, and was employed as the general painter of the Prince-Bishop of Salzburg.\n\nJohann Michael Rottmayr painted the inside of the central dome of the Melk Abbey. This particular painting was recently selected as the main motif of a very high-value collectors' coin: the Austrian Melk Abbey commemorative coin, minted on April 18, 2007. The reverse side gives a view up into the central dome of the church, with its typical vision of heaven.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917243", "title": "Retlaw Enterprises", "text": "Retlaw Enterprises\n\nRetlaw Enterprises, originally Walt Disney Miniature Railroad, then Walt Disney, Inc. (WDI), and then WED Enterprises (WED), was a privately held company owned by the heirs of entertainment mogul Walt Disney. Disney formed the company to control the rights to his name and to manage two Disneyland attractions that he personally owned. The name, Retlaw, is Walter spelled backwards.\n\nWalt Disney Miniature Railroad was formed by Walt Disney in 1950 to manage the Carolwood Pacific Railroad, his elaborate backyard miniature railroad. The company's name was changed to Walt Disney, Inc. (WDI) on December 16, 1952, and its purpose was changed to supposedly produce TV shows. However, he soon started the Disneyland designing and engineering division within WDI. He also assigned the rights to his name and likeness to the company, as well as ownership of the Disneyland Railroad, Mark Twain Steamboat, Viewliner Train of Tomorrow (defunct), and Disneyland Monorail attractions in Disneyland. Roy O. Disney objected to Walt's creation of the company as he considered it a diversion of a larger portion of the Walt Disney Productions income to Walt's family. WDI charged a licensing fee to the Disney company for 5% to 10% of the income from all of Disney's merchandising deals. In light of objections from Roy as well as those of potential stockholders, WDI was renamed WED Enterprises (WED) in 1953 based on Walt's initials of Walter Elias Disney.\n\nWalt also licensed Zorro TV rights from Mitchell in February 1953. WED Enterprises developed some scripts for the proposed Zorro TV series and shopped the series to the CBS and NBC TV networks. Both networks requested to see a pilot show. However, with the construction of Disneyland ongoing, the Zorro show was put on hold, and the rights were sold later that year to Walt Disney Productions.\n\nIn July 1953, Clement Melancon, a small shareholder of Walt Disney Productions stock, took Walt Disney and WED Enterprises, to court over the WED deal, believing that Walt had been improperly funneling profits from Walt Disney Productions. The case was settled in January 1955.\n\nIn 1961, the park design group, the future Walt Disney Imagineering, opened a creative workshop in the Grand Central Business Park.\n\nThe theme park design and architectural group became so integral to the Disney studio's operations that the studio bought it on February 5, 1965 along with the WED Enterprises name. Thus the Corporation needed a new name, Retlaw Enterprises.\n\nIn 1968, Retlaw started to diversify by acquiring its first TV station with its Fresno station purchase.\n\nFinally, in 1982, the Disney family sold the naming rights and rail-based attractions to Walt Disney Productions for 818,461 shares of Disney stock then worth $42.6 million, none of which went to Retlaw. The remaining divisions of Retlaw, after the majority of the company was sold to Walt's larger public company, were several television stations and real estate holdings that continue to be owned by the Disney family. Per Securities and Exchange Commission filings, Retlaw received $75 million in net income from the monorail and railroad from 1955 to late 1981. Roy E. Disney objected to the overvalued purchase price of the naming rights and voted against the purchase as a Disney board director.\n\nBy 1990, Retlaw holdings included 6 CBS affiliated TV stations, a small jet charter service, 580 Palmdale farmland acres and 220 acres of vacant land in Riverside County and 330 avocado grove acres in Riverside County and Escondido. The charter service operated out of Van Nuys Airport. The family shares received in 1982 would be in 1990 2% of the Disney stock and worth an estimated $300 million while Forbes estimates their stock to be worth $600 million, down from 1989's $850 million.\n\nWFXG was purchased in May 1998. In 1999 Retlaw sold its remaining 11 television stations to Fisher Communications, including all of the related assets to those properties for $215 million in cash.\n\nIn 2005, the remaining divisions of Retlaw officially became part of the Walt Disney Family Foundation, a non-profit organization led by Diane Disney Miller.\n\n\nRetlaw Broadcasting acquired KIMA-TV and its two semi-satellite stations, KLEW-TV and KEPR-TV, for $17 million in October 1986. The six stations owned in 1990 had purchased, over the years, for $37 million, and were estimated then to be worth $100 million.\n\nIn 1996, Retlaw Broadcasting acquired KVAL-TV, KVAL semi-satellite stations KCBY and KPIC, as well as station KBOI-TV, all from Northwest Television of Eugene, Oregon.\n\nRetlaw Broadcasting purchased WFXG in May 1998, its last acquisition before agreeing, in November 1998, to sell all 11 of its stations to Fisher Companies (later known as Fisher Communications) for $215 million. The deal was approved by the FCC in April 1999, and completed in July 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917270", "title": "Turun Sanomat", "text": "Turun Sanomat\n\nTurun Sanomat is the leading regional newspaper of the region of Southwest Finland. It is published in the region's capital, Turku, making it the third most widely read morning newspaper in Finland after \"Helsingin Sanomat\" and \"Aamulehti\".\n\n\"Turun Sanomat\" has been published since 1905 as supporter of the liberal Young Finnish Party. The founder of the paper was Antti Mikkola, a politician and a journalist.\n\n\"Turun Sanomat\" has been officially politically independent and non-aligned since 1961. It is owned by TS Group. The paper is headquartered in Turku. It is published by TS-Yhtymä group in broadsheet format.\n\nIn 1964 \"Turun Sanomat\" began to employ computers and new technology in printing, being a pioneer among European newspapers.\n\n\"Turun Sanomat\" publishes two weekly supplements, \"Treffi\" (on entertainment, and containing the following week's TV programmes) and \"Extra\", the monthly \"TS Talous\" (with in-depth economic coverage), and 24 different \"TS Teema\" -supplements (lifestyle). It also operates its own printing press and the local television channel Turku TV. The current executive editor of \"Turun Sanomat\" is Kari Vainio.\n\n\"Turun Sanomat\" was the fourth largest paper in Finland in 1993 and had a circulation of 119,004 copies. Its circulation was 115,142 copies in 2001, making it the fifth largest paper in the country. In 2003 the paper had a circulation of 110,000 copies and was the fifth best selling newspaper in the country. The 2004 circulation of the paper was 112,567 copies and it was the third best-selling paper in the country. The same year the paper had a readership of 282,000. In 2005 the paper had a circulation of 111,547 copies. Its circulation was 112,360 copies in 2006. The paper had a circulation of 112,419 copies in 2007.\n\nThe circulation of \"Turun Sanomat\" was 111,845 copies in 2008 and 109,504 copies in 2009. It was 107,199 copies in 2010 and 103,314 copies in 2011. \"Turun Sanomat\" was the third most read paper in terms of circulation and sixth largest paper in terms of readership in 2011. The circulation of the paper was 99,220 copies in 2012 and 97,289 copies in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917276", "title": "Circular shift", "text": "Circular shift\n\nIn combinatorial mathematics, a circular shift is the operation of rearranging the entries in a tuple, either by moving the final entry to the first position, while shifting all other entries to the next position, or by performing the inverse operation. A circular shift is a special kind of cyclic permutation, which in turn is a special kind of permutation. Formally, a circular shift is a permutation σ of the \"n\" entries in the tuple such that either \nor\n\nThe result of repeatedly applying circular shifts to a given tuple are also called the circular shifts of the tuple.\n\nFor example, repeatedly applying circular shifts to the four-tuple (\"a\", \"b\", \"c\", \"d\") successively gives\nand then the sequence repeats; this four-tuple therefore has four distinct circular shifts. However, not all \"n\"-tuples have \"n\" distinct circular shifts. For instance, the 4-tuple (\"a\", \"b\", \"a\", \"b\") only has 2 distinct circular shifts. In general the number of circular shifts of an \"n\"-tuple could be any divisor of \"n\", depending on the entries of the tuple.\n\nIn computer programming, a bitwise rotation, also known as a circular shift, is a bitwise operation that shifts all bits of its operand. Unlike an arithmetic shift, a circular shift does not preserve a number's sign bit or distinguish a floating-point number's exponent from its significand. Unlike a logical shift, the vacant bit positions are not filled in with zeros but are filled in with the bits that are shifted out of the sequence.\n\nCircular shifts are used often in cryptography in order to permute bit sequences. Unfortunately, many programming languages, including C, do not have operators or standard functions for circular shifting, even though virtually all processors have bitwise operation instructions for it (e.g. Intel x86 has ROL and ROR).\nHowever, some compilers may provide access to the processor instructions by means of intrinsic functions. In addition, some constructs in standard ANSI C code may be optimized by a compiler to the \"rotate\" assembly language instruction on CPUs that have such an instruction. Most C compilers recognize the following idiom, and compile it to a single 32-bit rotate instruction.\n/*\n\n\nuint32_t rotl32 (uint32_t value, unsigned int count) {\n\nuint32_t rotr32 (uint32_t value, unsigned int count) {\n\nThis safe and compiler-friendly implementation was developed by John Regehr, and further polished by Peter Cordes.\n\nA simpler version is often seen when the codice_1 is limited to the range of 1 to 31 bits:\n\nuint32_t rotl32 (uint32_t value, unsigned int count) {\n\nThis version is dangerous because if the codice_1 is 0 or 32, it asks for a 32-bit shift, which is undefined behaviour in the C language standard. However, it tends to work anyway, because most microprocessors implement codice_3 as either a 32-bit shift (producing 0) or a 0-bit shift (producing the original codice_4), and either one produces the correct result in this application.\n\nFor C++, the use of templates can expand the support to all integer types:\n// https://stackoverflow.com/a/776550/3770260\ntemplate <typename INT>\nconstexpr\nINT rol(INT val, size_t len) {\n static_assert(std::is_unsigned<INT>::value,\n return (val « len) | ((unsigned) val » (-len & (sizeof(INT) * CHAR_BIT - 1)));\n\nIf the bit sequence 0001 0111 were subjected to a circular shift of one bit position... (see images below)\n\nIf the bit sequence 1001 0110 were subjected to the following operations:\n\nCyclic codes are a kind of block code with the property that the circular shift of a codeword will always yield another codeword. This motivates the following general definition: For a string \"s\" over an alphabet \"Σ\", let \"shift(s)\" denote the set of circular shifts of \"s\",\nand for a set \"L\" of strings, let \"shift\"(\"L\") denote the set of all circular shifts of strings in \"L\". If \"L\" is a cyclic code, then \"shift\"(\"L\") ⊆ \"L\"; this is a necessary condition for \"L\" being a cyclic language. The operation \"shift\"(\"L\") has been studied in formal language theory. For instance, if \"L\" is a context-free language, then \"shift\"(\"L\") is again context-free. Also, if \"L\" is described by a regular expression of length \"n\", there is a regular expression of length \"O\"(\"n\") describing \"shift\"(\"L\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1917280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917280", "title": "Metrojet", "text": "Metrojet\n\nMetrojet may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917294", "title": "Safety wire", "text": "Safety wire\n\nSafety wire or locking-wire is a type of \"positive locking device\" that prevents fasteners from falling out due to vibration and other forces. The presence of safety wiring may also serve to indicate that the fasteners have been properly tightened.\n\nSafety wire is available in a variety of gauges and materials, depending on the application. In aircraft and racing applications, stainless steel wire is used, such as in diameter. Typically, the wire is threaded through a hole drilled into a fastener or part, then twisted and anchored to a second fastener or part, then twisted again.\n\nThere are a few techniques for different applications. The word safetying is a term universally used in the aircraft industry. Briefly, safetying is defined as: \"Securing by various means any nut, bolt, turnbuckle etc., on the aircraft so that vibration will not cause it to loosen during operation.\" These practices are not a means of obtaining or maintaining torque, rather a safety device to prevent the disengagement of screws, nuts, bolts, snap rings, oil caps, drain cocks, valves, and parts. The wire itself maintains tension and remains in place by being twisted around itself and attached to the fastener to be secured on one end and an anchor point (which could be another fastener) on the other end. Since safety wire is made of a malleable alloy, it retains its shape after being bent, rather than springing back to its original shape. This property allows it to remain locked around an object, such as when it is passed through a small hole on a fastener, looped back upon itself and then twisted. The same process is then repeated around the anchor point, which could be another fastener. Since it remains twisted instead of unraveling, it acts as a fixed loop and will not back out without considerable force (greater than the stresses which it is intended to counter) being applied.\n\n\"Mousing\" (pronounced ) is the application of a molly or safety wire, called \"mousing wire\" in this use, to secure a threaded clevis pin to a shackle. This is done by passing a couple of turns of mousing wire through the reach-hole provided for this purpose in the unthreaded end of the clevis pin and around the body of the shackle's hoop. Alternatively, some threaded shackles are provided with a hole through the threaded end of the pin beyond where it emerges from the threaded hole. A cotter pin or a couple of loops of mousing wire through this hole serves the same purpose and secures the shackle in a closed position. Nylon zip ties are also commonly used in applications where the shackle must be secured, but easy removal is required.\n\nA safety wire is used to ensure proper security for a fastener. The wire needed is long enough to reach from a fixed location to a hole in the removable fastener, such as a pin — a clevis fastener, sometimes a linchpin or hitch-pin through a clevis yoke for instance — and the wire pulled back upon itself, parallel to its other end, then twisted, a single end inserted through a fastener, and twisted again, possibly then anchored to a second fastener or other part, then twisted once again, having excess slack pulled relatively taut to be secure. The two ends of the wire-loop thus formed are joined by twisting them together with a tool, using enough twists to be secure, then released from the twisting tool. The removable fastener — possibly a nut, wing nut, turnbuckle, a bolt or a pin similar to a bolt — having a hole through a part of it that will remain accessible when it is fastened in place will be secured with the wire passing through it. When finished, any excess length of wire would be cut off with a pair of wire cutters, such as pliers that may, also, be the twisting tool. If the fastener part to be secured does not come with a hole for the safety wire, one may need to be drilled.\n\nSafety wire is not reusable, thus it can be cut apart in order to remove it easily when the fastener is to be opened.\n\nWhen using a most common gauge of safety wire, which is 0.032 inches, guidance for installation can be found in several publicly available sources. identifies only 6 to 8 twists per inch. 43.13-1B has no other reference to twists per inch either by hand twisting with special tools. identifies different twists per inch as 0.020–0.025 inches at 8–14 twists per inch, 0.032–0.041 inches at 6–11 twists per inch, and 0.051–0.060 inches at 4–8 twists per inch. The safety wire should be threaded through the object fastener such that it creates tension in the \"opposite direction\" of the fastener's removal. For example, if a standard automotive bolt in the U.S. is being secured, then the safety wire when installed should put tension on the bolt in a \"clockwise\" direction, since that is the direction that the bolt turns to tighten.\n\nWhen drilling a fastener, the choice of where to drill it depends on the type of fastener and to what it will be wired. The alternative to drilling holes in fasteners is to use safety wire tabs (see \"Safety wire tabs\" section below), or to purchase pre-drilled fasteners.\n\nA more simplistic application of safety wire, more commonly referred to as witness wiring, is the use of light gauge, single strand, copper wire to provide positive visual confirmation of the security or closure of specific equipment within the aerospace industry. Common applications include the security of safety equipment such as fire extinguishers, and safety equipment bags, but also as an assurance that critical system switch covers remain in place, such as those associated with the application of fire suppression, or ejection systems. This application of witness wires is widely varied, and may cover a broad range of types of equipment and numerous situations.\n\nWitness wires also serve the purpose of providing a rapid method for ensuring critical safety equipment or systems have not been used or tampered with since their last repair, reset, or inspection, and also that the container of such equipment has not been inadvertently opened, disturbed or tampered with, therefore providing confidence in their readiness for use. In a similar manner, critical system switch covers are protected from inadvertent activation, through the application of witness wire.\n\nThe gauge of copper wire utilized in this application is such that the wire security can be overcome with minimal breaking force by hand, without damage to the equipment or persons, and once broken, remains affixed to the equipment without the introduction of foreign object damage (FOD).\n\nTypically the wire is threaded through existing holes in the associated equipment, using a single strand loop, and a single crossover, such that the closure is secured without impedance to the normal functioning of the equipment. The single crossover provides the appropriate friction such that the wire cannot fall completely free of the equipment when broken. The loose ends of the strand may be twisted in a pigtail fashion, or crimped with a lead seal, securing both strands as close to the closure as practical. In each case, the loose ends of the strands should be tucked neatly away from inadvertent impact.\n\nSafety wire is commonly in diameter, but diameters are also available. It is usually made of stainless steel, but is also available in monel and inconel alloys for high temperature applications and copper for break-away applications. For consumer applications, it is typically sold in spools enclosed in a small cardboard or plastic canister.\n\nA safety wire twister is a simple tool that allows the user to grip the two loose ends of a piece of safety wire and then, while holding the main barrel of the tool, turn the end that is not gripping the wire (which is bent to create a simple cranking mechanism) in order to twist the safety wire.\n\nThere is another type of basic safety wire twister which is similar to a standard screwdriver, except that the tip has a small grasping mechanism to hold the ends of the wire while the technician turns the handle to twist the wire. The advantage to this tool is its long and thin design, which can access hard-to-reach areas where one's hands or pliers do not fit. It is commonly referred to as a \"pignose\" due to its snout-like appearance.\n\nSafety wire tabs are washers that are used to secure fasteners by transferring the force of the safety wire to the head of the fastener to be secured. They are installed just like any other washer, after which the sides of the tab are bent up to make contact with the sides of the head of the fastener. One side of the tab is longer than the other with a small hole at the top, through which safety wire is threaded. Once the safety wire is properly installed, the sides of the tab transfer the force of the safety wire to the fastener, as though the fastener itself had been drilled and had the safety wire run through it.\n\nThe advantage of safety wire tabs is that the fastener to be secured does not need to be drilled, which can be advantageous for fasteners that should not or cannot be drilled because of size or damage concerns. They can also be useful when a fastener needs to be replaced, the replacement is not already drilled, and circumstances do not afford the time or tools to properly prepare the replacement fastener. The disadvantages are that it adds extra distance between the head of the fastener and the surface to which it is to be secured, and it is not as secure as securing the wire directly to the fastener itself as the tab could be a point of failure if it somehow unbends or the hole breaks (which is more likely than the hole in a drilled fastener failing due to the thinness and malleability of the material from which it is made).\n\nFor certain applications where safety wiring is common, fasteners come pre-drilled with holes to accept safety wire. When wiring something that did not come with pre-drilled fasteners stock, however, the more cost-effective way (as opposed to replacing all stock fasteners with pre-drilled ones of the same type) is often to drill the stock fasteners.\n\nBecause the use of twisted safety wire to secure fasteners requires the fasteners to be drilled, tool makers offer drill jigs to help technicians drill the fasteners to be secured. Although pre-drilled fasteners can be obtained, most fasteners to be secured start out never having been intended to be secured (e.g., a production motorcycle which was built for the street but which has been converted into a race-bike). Such fasteners need to be drilled. Drilling them is often difficult as, due to their small size and irregular shape, securing them properly and applying a drill effectively can be trying. As a result, technicians often break drill bits or damage the fastener when the bit slides off position. A useful tool is a drill press, because it allows the technician to apply the force of the drill bit directly to the fastener being drilled and eliminates lateral movement; but even with a press the fastener needs to be secured to prevent it from sliding out from beneath the bit. Even though drill presses ease the process, a press isn't always available, such as at a race event; and even with a press, the problem of securing the fastener still exists. To solve those problems, jigs are available which are designed to securely hold the fastener while providing a guide-channel for a drill bit (with either a hand drill or a press) so that the technician can easily and directly apply force from the drill to the fastener without having it slip off or breaking the bit.\n\nSafety cable is an alternative to safety wire. Safety cable is defined as a group of strands right-hand helically twisted without a core. This eliminates the need for twisting during installation, as is required with safety wire. Several companies manufacture safety cable, and it is becoming an industry standard due to easier control of critical inputs and reduced installation time. Installation and quality requirements of safety cable are governed by SAE AS4536.\n\nOne system works by providing pre-cut lengths of safety wire that have a large cap on one end. The cable is threaded through a hole on the fastener to be secured, which is large enough to accommodate the wire but too small for the cap on the other end of the cable to pass through it. After the other end of the wire is passed through the anchor point, the technician takes an extra end cap and the special tool that is available from Daniels and crimps the cap on to that end of the wire. Again, the end cap is too large to pass through the hole that the wire passed through, and thus the cable is secured.\n\nAlthough many systems purport to be more efficient than installing traditional safety wire, an advantageous by-product of the twisting method of installing safety wire is that it leaves a highly visible and easily inspectable indication that the fasteners in question are in fact properly secured.\n\nIn addition, safety wire twisting is a standard, non-proprietary technique, and tools and materials can be easily found, cheaply purchased, and mixed with other brands while still working properly (provided of course that all components are used properly and with the proper \"types\" of complementary components and tools, if not brands).\n\nThe primary disadvantage of traditional safety wire is the time it requires to install properly when securing fasteners, although technicians who use it often can implement it fairly quickly. It also leaves behind waste products when ends are clipped off or when it is cut off secured fasteners that need to be removed during maintenance, resulting in sharp metal bits that can easily damage soft materials or injure skin. However, the amount of waste product is relatively small, it is non-toxic, and the hazard can be mitigated altogether if technicians properly dispose of any waste product. When clipping off ends, the ends can go flying off which makes their recovery difficult and can cause injury to anyone in the immediate vicinity, such as the technician or an assistant; however, this can also be easily mitigated by using extra care or by using safety wire pliers that have a special insert that is designed to catch clipped off ends. Another disadvantage is that since the manual skill required to implement traditional safety wire is easily learned, the techniques required to maximize the retentive force of safety wire (e.g., in which direction the retentive force should be exerted, the direction of twist, proper angles for securing multiple fasteners, proper twists per inch, which type of wire to use, etc.) are often ignored by non-formally trained technicians (e.g., hobbyists) who use safety wire for their projects.\n\nThere are also other systems of fastener retention that do not rely on safety wire at all, such as lock washers, locknuts, jam nuts, thread-locking fluid, castellated nuts and cotter pins, all of which accomplish the same objective as safety wire, which is to prevent vibration or other forces from causing the undesired loosening of a mechanical fastener.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917302", "title": "Daimajin", "text": "Daimajin\n\nThe \"Daimajin\" series was revived in 2010 as a television drama titled \"Daimajin Kanon\", broadcast on TV Tokyo.\n\nIn Japan, a household of peasants cower during a series of earth tremors that are interpreted as the escape attempts of Daimajin, a spirit trapped within the mountain. These events are observed by Lord Hanabasa, and his chamberlain, Samanosuke, who are attempting to seize power in the area. As the villagers pray at a shrine, Samanosuke and his henchmen slaughter Hanabasa's family, with only his son and daughter escaping, who are assisted by the samurai Kogenta. Back at the shrine, Samanosuke's men begin to take over and forbid gatherings at the shrine. After failing to warn Samanosuke about his actions, the priestess Shinobu returns home, finding Kogenta and the two children. Shinobu takes them up the side of the mountain into forbidden territory, where the stone idol which is Daimajin stands, half-buried in the side of the mountain. The children grow to adulthood with the son, Tadafumi (Yoshihiko Aoyama) reaching his 18th birthday. Meanwhile, Samanosuke has enslaved the village. After several attempts to return peace and freedom to the village, Samanosuke's men travel up the mountain to smash Daimajin. Damaijin is asked by the daughter, Kozasa (Miwa Takada) to save her brother, with the idol removing a mask to reveal Daimajin's real face, leading it to rise from the mountain and exact its wrath on Samanosuke and his fortress. Daimajin's wrath begins to grow to attacking everything in sight, only stopping when Kozasa's tears land on Daimajin's feet.\n\nThe film was released in the United States by Daiei International with subtitles in an English-dubbed version by Bernard Lewis. The film has been released under many English alternative titles, such as The Devil Got Angry, The Vengeance of the Monster, and Majin, the Monster of Terror.\n\nIn Japan, Daimajin is found on an island in the middle of a lake which is surrounded by the two peaceful villages, Chigusa and Nagoshi. In a distant third village ruled by an evil lord, the citizens flee to Chigusa to take refuge. One day the evil lord decides to take over the two villages and attempts to do so at an annual festival. After being pursued by the evil lord's army, the people of Chiqusa and Nagoshi find themselves on the island with the Daimajin statue. The evil lord has his men shatter the statue with a large amount of gunpowder. Daimajin's shattered remains end up at the bottom of the lake. Daimajin awakens to inflict chaos to all around him, including the landscape and the evil lord.\n\n\"Return of Daimajin\" was never released theatrically in the United States, but was released to television by AIP-TV in 1967.\n\nIn Japan, Daimajin is found at the top of a mountain. Fathers in a village have been captured by an evil lord and forced to work in labor camps. Four of their sons decide to go rescue them, even if it means crossing the mountain where Daimajin is. The four sons pay their respects to the statue when they pass it so that they do not incur its wrath. The evil lord eventually angers the statue, who comes to life and destroys all those who have not been paying respect to him. The children and their fathers are spared, while the work camp is destroyed.\n\n\"Daimajin Strikes Again\" was never released theatrically in the United States, but received the international English title of The Return of Majin.\n\nList indicator(s)\n\n"}
{"id": "1917306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917306", "title": "Julia Watts", "text": "Julia Watts\n\nJulia Watts is an American fiction writer.\n\nJulia Watts is the author of novels, short stories, etc., especially in the genres of young adult fiction and lesbian fiction/erotica. \nHer novels include \"Finding H.F.\" for which she won the 2001 Lambda Literary Award in the children/young adult category. She was nominated again for the 2005 award in the erotica category as one of the authors of the story collection \"\". \"Women's Studies\" was a finalist for a Golden Crown Literary Society award. Her young adult novel, \"Kindred Spirits\", is for the emerging press Beanpole Books. Her 2018 novel, \"Quiver\" was awarded a Perfect Tens Award by VOYA and the Fall 2018 OKRA Pick by Southern Independent Booksellers Alliance. \nIn addition to her fiction work, Watts recently co-edited an anthology of essays, memoirs and stories on the sensitive topic of menstruation titled Women. Period..\n\nMs. Watts currently resides in Knoxville, Tennessee, where she teaches at South College. \nShe holds a masters in fine arts, which she obtained from Spalding University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917312", "title": "Jim Eason", "text": "Jim Eason\n\nJim Eason is a conservative talk radio personality who hosted broadcasts from 1966 to 2000 in the San Francisco Bay Area. He always ended his talk shows with the catchphrase \"Do what you can, but behave yourself\". His early 1970s theme was Herbie Mann's \"Hold On, I'm Coming\". In the 1990s he changed his theme to the Dave Brubeck/Paul Desmond jazz classic \"Take Five\".\n\nJames H. Eason, Jr. was born December 26, 1935 in Burlington, North Carolina, and attended schools in Graham, and Glade Valley, as well as one year at Edwards Military Academy. He studied at Piedmont Bible College in Winston-Salem for a year before joining the United States Air Force in 1954. Eason was a USAF weatherman stationed first in Illinois, then at Sidi Slimane and Nouasseur Air Base from 1955 to 1956, Texas, then Greenland in 1960, and Merced CA from 1961-1963. After leaving the USAF, Eason attended San Francisco State University from 1962-1964, studying Radio/TV .\n\nHe has been married twice. He and his first wife Gay Sibley (1959-1963) have one son, Adam Lowe. Jim and his 2nd wife, Barbara (1964-present) have 2 children. Their daughter Lauren and son James III.\n\nDuring his USAF assignment in Morocco, Eason broadcast a music call-in show over Armed Forces Radio in addition to his weather tower duties. (He left the USAF in 1963 from his last weather assignment in Merced.) 1964 was Easons first Bay Area broadcast, when he guest hosted “Records at Random” on KSFO. Between 1966 and 1967 Eason both created and hosted \"Testing 1-2-3\", a call-in game show on KCBS. In 1969, he joined KGO as a weekend talk show host after KCBS went to an all-news format. In 1970, Eason became a week night talk show host at KGO. He moved to weekday afternoons in 1973, frequently interviewing visiting entertainers, authors, and public figures.\n\nIn 1983, Eason portrayed poet Omar Khayam in the Capuchino Community Theatre production of \"Kismet\", which was directed by close friend Jack Brooks (1935–1984), director, actor, singer, arts critic, and host of a Saturday morning KGO program.\n\nA longtime resident of the San Francisco area, Eason moved to Asheville, North Carolina in 1993, where he broadcast his KGO talk show via high speed connection from his home studio. He was one of the first to do this type of remote broadcast on a regular basis. In 1996, Eason moved his talk show to KGO's more conservative sister station KSFO, while continuing to broadcast from his home studio in Asheville.\n\nThroughout his long talk show career, Eason's show always ranked #1 for the afternoon time slot of 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., then 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.\n\nEason quit KSFO radio due to a \"philosophical\" conflict with management in 2000, which marked his official retirement from broadcasting. KSFO had been his first San Francisco Bay Area radio broadcast gig, when he hosted one of their \"Records at Random\" shows in 1963.\n\nJim returned to Northern California in 2003. He was inducted into the Bay Area Radio Hall of Fame in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917316", "title": "Rolf Dobelli", "text": "Rolf Dobelli\n\nRolf Dobelli (born July 15, 1966 in Luzern, Switzerland) is a Swiss author and businessman.\nHe began his writing career as a novelist in 2002, but he is best known internationally for his bestselling non-fiction \"The Art of Thinking Clearly\" (2011, English 2013), for which The Times has called him \"the self-help guru the Germans love\".\n\nBorn in 1966 in Lucerne, Switzerland, he obtained an MBA in 1991 from the University of St. Gallen and a PhD in economic philosophy in 1995. In 1999, he co-founded getAbstract, a publisher of book summaries and article abstracts.\n\nDobelli is a member of Edge Foundation, Inc., an association of intellectuals, PEN International, Royal Society of Arts and founder of the \"World Minds\" foundation.\n\nDobelli studied philosophy and business administration at the University of St. Gallen where he graduated with a doctorate on the \"Deconstruction of Economic Discourse\". He then went to work as the CFO and Managing Director in various Swissair subsidiaries. In 1999 he co-founded \"getAbstract\". \n\nFrom 2001 to 2009 Dobelli hosted a weekly television show \"Seitenweise Wirtschaft\" for the Swiss newspaper and media company, NZZ. He also wrote a weekly column on the Art of Thinking Clearly\n\nHe resigned from getAbstract in 2011 so that he could dedicate himself to writing. Dobelli's increasing dissatisfaction with the world of pure business was already reflected in his 2003 novel titled \"35 - A Midlife Story\". this was followed by his 2004 book, \"And what do you do for a living\" and his 2007 book \"Who am I? 777 indiscreet questions.\" \nDobelli advises his readers to \"avoid news consumption\" . He cites \"fifteen reasons to avoid news\" in a 2013 blog post.. It is the subject of a forthcoming book in English titled, \"Stop Reading the News: How to cope with the information overload and think more clearly\".. Dobelli's writings are sometimes controversial. The Guardian newspaper columnist Madeleine Bunting has even gone so far as accusing his ideas on news of being \"dangerous\"..\n\nDobelli founded World Minds in 2008 to create a bridge between the science, business and cultural communities. The annual meeting, held in the city of Zurich has attracted world-class speakers including: Nassim Taleb, Gerhard Schröder, F. W. de Klerk, Matt Ridley and others.\n\nIn 2003, Diogenes Verlag (Switzerland) published his first novel, \"Fünfunddreissig\" (\"Thirty-five\"), followed by \"Und was machen Sie beruflich?\" (\"And What Do You Do for a Living?\") in 2004, \"Himmelreich\" (The Heavens) in 2006, \"Wer bin ich?\" (\"Who am I?\") and \"Turbulenzen\" (\"Turbulence\") in 2007 and \"Massimo Marini\" in 2010. \nThe major themes in Dobelli's novels are the meaning of success and the role of randomness in business and in life.\n\nDobelli is the author of \"The Art of Thinking Clearly\" (\"Die Kunst des klaren Denkens\"), originally published by Carl Hanser Verlag in 2011, which was an instant success, entering Germany's Der Spiegel Bestseller list as number 1. \nIt was the bestselling non-fiction book in Germany and Switzerland in 2012. It was translated into English in 2013 and hit the top ten bestseller lists in the U.K, South Korea, India, Ireland, Hong Kong and Singapore.\n\nIn 2013, Nassim Nicholas Taleb published a piece on his website in which he accused Dobelli of plagiarism . This piece was published concurrently with a number of personal attacks launched by Taleb. This, and other personal attacks have lead commentators to question Taleb's motives. Later, Christopher Chabris also published what he claimed to be an example in Dobelli's book that is referenced but does not have quotation marks.. While Dobelli never claimed that the ideas were his he has acknowledged their concerns and has updated subsequent editions. Claims of plagiarism have been disputed by Claudius Seidl, the cultural editor of the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.\".\n\nIn 2020 Dobelli's published \"Stop Reading the News, A Manifesto for a Happier, Calmer and Wiser Life\". Martin Newman, reviewing the book for the Financial Review wrote, \"Stop Reading the News\" explores the explosion of opinion-based news, the elevation of mediocrity over substance (The Kardashians!!), the way news creates the illusion of empathy, can elevate stress levels and builds a mindset that reinforces negativity\". \n\n"}
{"id": "1917332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917332", "title": "Yekaterina Budanova", "text": "Yekaterina Budanova\n\nYekaterina Vasilyevna Budanova (), nicknamed Katya (Катя), (6 December 1916 – 19 July 1943), was a fighter pilot in the Soviet Air Force during World War II. With five air victories, along with Lydia Litvyak, she was one of the world's two female fighter aces. She was shot down by either Luftwaffe ace Georg Schwientek of \"JG 52\" or ace Emil Bitsch, of \"JG 3\".\n\nBudanova was born into a peasant family in Konoplanka village in Smolensk Oblast. After leaving elementary school with the highest grades, she had to abandon her studies due to her father's death, and began working as a nanny. At the age of thirteen her mother sent her to join her sister in Moscow, where she began working as a carpenter in an aircraft factory. It was there that she began an interest in aviation, and she joined an aeroclub's parachutist section, obtaining her flying license in 1934 and graduating to flight instructor in 1937. She took part in several air parades, flying the single-seater Yakovlev UT-1.\n\nAfter the German attack on the USSR in June 1941, she enlisted in military aviation and was assigned to the 586th Fighter Aviation Regiment, formed by Marina Raskova. This unit consisted entirely of female pilots and was equipped with Yak-1. Initially, all women pilots were placed into three all-women units; the 586th Fighter Aviation Regiment, the 587th Dive Bomber Regiment and the 588th Night Bomber Regiment. The 500 designations were originally meant to signify defense reserves. These units were originally made up women who were flight instructors or members of pre-war flying clubs. The 586th (under Major Tamara Kazarinova) saw combat action in the spring of 1942 in the rear. In May 1942 the 586th Fighter Aviation Regiment redeployed to Anisovka where it was assigned to the 144th Fighter Aviation Division covering the railway installations near Saratov, and it was here Budanova flew her first combat missions. But, as the Battle of Stalingrad raged, the supply of replacement male pilots was drying up and thus, seeing the skill of these women, the Soviet High Command began dispersing selected female pilots to existing male units. On 10 September, Budanova was assigned with Lydia Litvyak, Mariya Kuznetsova and Raisa Belyayeva to the 437th Fighter Aviation Regiment, based in Verkhnania Akhtuba on the east bank of the Volga river engaged in the fighting over Stalingrad. The 437th was a LaGG-3 regiment, under Major Khvostikov, who was initially skeptical of the ability of women pilots. But in a short time Budanova became known for her aggressive attacking and high piloting skill.\n\nAccording to some historians, she shot down her first opponent — a Messerschmitt Bf 109 fighter — on 14 September 1942, combining forces with Lydia Litvyak. According to regiment archivist Ekaterina K. Polunina on 2 October 1942 Budanova achieved her two first solo air victories, shooting down a Junkers Ju 88 and a Bf 109. However, Budanova's aircraft mechanic, Inna Pasportnikova wrote that she shot down her first aircraft on 6 October when she attacked 13 Ju 88 bombers, downing one.\n\nFrom October until January 1943 Budanova and Litvyak served in the Stalingrad area with the elite 9th Guards Fighter Regiment, commanded by Lev Shestakov, a Hero of Soviet Union. This regiment consisted either of aces or people considered potential aces. One of them was Vladimir Lavrinenkov, who ended the war with 46 victories (11 shared). He later recalled that Budanova \"was tall, kept her hair cut short... and in her flightsuit hardly stood out from the fellows.\" He characterized Budanova as a \"cheerful, lively character\" while Litvyak looked \"thoughtful and quiet\". Both he said were excellent pilots. Initially the two females they had flown together but then more often flew separately as wingmen to other pilots. While in the Stalingrad area, an order was received citing the return of the women aircrew to the 586th. Pasportnikova later recalled, \"Budanova and Litvyak appealed to Lt.Col Shestakov, the commander of the 9th Guards Fighter Regiment, with a request to let them remain in the regiment.\" They were allowed to stay, remaining with 9th Guards Fighter Aviation Regiment for over three months. \nOn 10 December Budanova shot down two Messerschmitt Bf 110s. In the following months she was credited with several more aircraft.\n\nIn January 1943 the 9th Guards Fighter Aviation Regiment was re-equipped with the US-built P-39 \"Airacobra\" and Budanova and Litvyak moved to the 296th Fighter Aviation Regiment (later the 73rd Guards Fighter Aviation Regiment) of Nikolai Baranov, and continued to fly the Yak. It was with 73rd Fighter Aviation Regiment that Budanova and Litvyak achieved the bulk of their combat claims. Budanova was selected to fly with Baranov, while squadron commander Alexei Solomatin took Litvyak as wingman.\n\nBudanova was soon given permission for \"solo hunting\", an honor given to aggressive and successful pilots.\n\nOn 10 February 1943, near Rostov on Don, she shot down a Focke-Wulf Fw 190 along with Senior Lieutenant Nikolay Demkin and the wingman, Lieutenant Boris Gorkhiver.\n\nOn 23 February she was awarded with an Order of the Red Star. On 9 March 1943 between 17.30 and 18.30 she claimed a Bf 109 along with Lieutenant Oleg Filipchenko.\n\nOn 20 April 1943 \"Ogonek\", a political-literary weekly publication intended for young adults, featured a cover photo of Budanova and Litvyak. An article detailed their accomplishments, honoring their collective, rather than individual, achievements. The magazine gave a combined number of combat missions and kills to date for the two pilots. On 30 May under command of Soshnikov, Budanova shared in the destruction of another Bf 109.\n\nBy June 1943 Budanova had six victories to her credit, and operating near Rostov on Don during the liberation of Donbas, heavy air combat saw her claims raised to 11.\n\nOn 19 July 1943 she flew her last mission, near Novokrasnovka. That morning she took off for an escort mission and near Antratsit in Luhansk Oblast she was involved in a dogfight with Bf 109s. Inna Pasportnikova later recalled: \nBudanova managed to put out the fire and force landed in no-man's land. By the time local farmers came to pull her from the aircraft, she was already dead. They buried her on the outskirts of the village of Novokrasnovka. The pilot who shot her down was either Georg Schwientek of \"JG 52\" or Emil Bitsch, of \"8./JG 3\", the only two pilots that claimed a Yak-1 in the Novokrasnovka area on 19 July 1943.\n\nThere have been several different versions of Budanova's aerial victory score published, with no official tally. The most common quoted is for 11 kills (6 individual and 5 shared). According to some historians she achieved 11 individual air victories.\n\nPasportnikova has stated that Budanova had five personal kills at the time of her death. She was twice awarded Order of the Patriotic War. Although she was nominated for the title of Hero of the Soviet Union during the war, she never received it. On 1 October 1993, she was posthumously awarded the title Hero of the Russian Federation.\n\nRussian aviation historians Andrey Simonov and Svetlana Chudinova dispute Budanova's status as a flying ace, noting that official documents record that she had only three victories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917336", "title": "Jessica Nelson North", "text": "Jessica Nelson North\n\nJessica Nelson North (September 7, 1891 – June 3, 1988) was an American author, poet and editor.\n\nJessica Nelson North was born in Madison, Wisconsin, the daughter of David Willard North and Sarah Elizabeth \"Elizabeth\" (Nelson) North. She grew up on the shore of Lake Koshkonong near to what later became St. Joseph's College in the vicinity of Edgerton, Wisconsin. She was the older sister of Sterling North, author of \"Rascal\" and many other children's books. Jessica Nelson North is one of the major characters portrayed in her brother's well-known book, which was set when she was 25. Jessica and Sterling's family home (the setting of \"Rascal\") in Edgerton has been restored to its 1917 setting and is open as a museum. Sterling North recalled (in \"Rascal\", Chapter 2) that \"Both sisters had taken tender care of me after Mother died, Jessica in particular, postponing her career and marriage.\"\n\nJessica's grandparents, James Hervey Nelson and Sarah Orelup Nelson, were Wisconsin pioneers. In 1917, which would have been her grandfather James Hervey Nelson's 100th birthday, several of North's uncles wrote extended biographies about their parents and their pioneer farm life. These writing efforts may have been a literary inspiration to both her and Sterling.\n\nJessica was the aunt of author Arielle North Olson who was Sterling's daughter. Jessica was also the niece of Justus Henry Nelson, an early missionary in the Amazon.\n\nGenealogy was one of Jessica Nelson North's avocations.\n\nShe received a bachelor's degree from Lawrence College in Appleton, Wisconsin, where she was a member of Alpha Delta Pi, and went on to graduate school at the University of Chicago. North married Reed Inness MacDonald on June 11, 1921 in Edgerton, Wisconsin and had two children.\n\nDuring college, North was the president of the University of Chicago Poetry Club and was the editor of the \"Adelphean\" and the \"History of Alpha Delta Pi\".\n\nNorth published her first novel, \"Arden Acres\", in 1935. It is a family drama and social commentary set in the Great Depression told from the point of view of the oldest daughter of a family in the fictional Arden Acres, Illinois. She also published \"Miss Missouri\", \"The Long Leash\"(1928), \"The Prayer Rug\" and \"The Pocket\". Her poem about a child's tea party is one of her most beloved works. It starts:\nIn the thirties and forties, North was an editor at \"Poetry\" magazine, one of the leading poetry magazines of the English speaking world. She also published \"The Giant's Shoe\" in 1967, an illustrated children's book. Her work has been included in textbooks including \"Golden Trails\".\n\nJessica Nelson North died on June 3, 1988 in Downers Grove, Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917342", "title": "Gelcoat", "text": "Gelcoat\n\nGelcoat or 'Gel Coat' is a material used to provide a high-quality finish on the visible surface of a fibre-reinforced composite. The most common gelcoats are thermosetting polymers based on epoxy or unsaturated polyester resin chemistry. Gelcoats are modified resins which are applied to moulds in the liquid state. They are cured to form crosslinked polymers and are subsequently backed with thermoset polymer matrix composites which are often mixtures of polyester resin and fiberglass, or epoxy resin which is most commonly used with carbon fibre for higher specific strength. \n\nThe manufactured component, when sufficiently cured and removed from the mould, presents the gelcoated surface. This is usually pigmented to provide a coloured, glossy surface which improves the aesthetic appearance of the article, such as the surface of a boat hull. \n\nMany marine craft and some aircraft are manufactured using composite materials with an outer layer of gelcoat, typically 0.5 mm to 0.8 mm (0.02 in to 0.03 in) thick. Gelcoats are designed to be durable, providing resistance to ultraviolet degradation and hydrolysis. \n\nSpecialized gelcoats can be used to manufacture the moulds which in turn are used to manufacture components. These require very high levels of durability to overcome the mechanical and thermal stresses encountered during the curing and demoulding processes. \n\nSuitable resin chemistries for the manufacture of gelcoats vary, but the most commonly encountered are unsaturated polyesters or epoxies. Within each of these categories, the resin chemistries are further subdivided.\n\nIn addition to any pigment a gelcoat will, if necessary, contain a thixotropic additive to assist its tenacity to vertical portions of the mould whilst it cures.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917344", "title": "MoviePlex", "text": "MoviePlex\n\nMoviePlex (stylized as movieplex since 2006) is an American premium cable and satellite television network that is owned by Lionsgate. The channel's programming consists of recent and older theatrically released motion pictures. The headquarters of MoviePlex, and its sister channels Encore and Starz, are located at the Meridian International Business Center complex in Meridian, Colorado.\n\nMoviePlex originally launched on January 1, 1997 as Plex: Encore 1; it replaced both INTRO Television (originally called TV! Network until September 1995), a cable channel that was launched in June 1994 by Liberty Media (initial owner of MoviePlex through a joint venture with parent company Tele-Communications, Inc.), which aired \"sampler\" blocks of programming from other cable channels without full coverage; and Encore Plus, a secondary Encore network that had utilized what came to be MoviePlex's format. The relaunched network was originally referred to as \"Plex\" in promotions, with the numbering system used by the Encore networks at the time giving it the designation \"Encore 1\"; the network assumed the MoviePlex name in the fall of 1997.\n\nMoviePlex's original programming format carried on that of its predecessor, as the channel featured day-long blocks of various programs from Encore's themed multiplex channels each day of the week, with a different channel being showcased each day; prior to MoviePlex's conversion into a standalone channel, it broadcast programming from Encore WAM (now Encore Family) on Sundays, Encore Mystery (now Encore Suspense) on Mondays, the main Encore channel on Tuesdays, Encore Westerns on Wednesdays, Encore Action on Thursdays, Encore Love (now Encore Classic) on Fridays and Encore Drama (now Encore Black) on Saturdays. Programming was shown on a one-hour delay from its presentation on that respective Encore channel, with R-rated films excised. Presumably, this was to give viewers a chance to try out each channel of the multiplex before subscribing to it; alternatively, it also served as an outlet for some of the multiplex programming as some cable providers did not carry them all.\n\nOn June 2, 1997, TCI announced a deal in which it transferred majority ownership of its Encore Media Group subsidiary to Liberty Media, a transaction done in part to shield TCI from effects resulting from the significant profit losses incurred by Starz! following that channel's launch – TCI retained a minority 20% ownership interest until its 1999 merger with AT&T Corporation, when Liberty Media assumed full ownership of the Encore Media Group.\n\nOn April 4, 2006 at 12:00 a.m. Eastern Time, MoviePlex launched two companion multiplex channels: IndiePlex, which is dedicated to independent films, and RetroPlex, which focuses on older movies from the 1980s and earlier. The first movie to be aired on IndiePlex was the Wim Wenders-directed western \"Paris, Texas\"; RetroPlex launched with the Samuel Fuller-directed drama \"Pickup on South Street\".\n\nOn November 19, 2009, Liberty Media spun off Starz, Encore and MoviePlex into a separate public tracking stock named Liberty Starz. On August 1, 2011, MoviePlex adopted its own separate programming schedule, ending the sampler block format of films and other programs seen on the various Encore multiplex channels. On August 8, 2012, Liberty Media announced that it would spin off Liberty Starz into its own separate publicly traded company. The spin-off of the subsidiary was completed on January 11, 2013, with Liberty Starz changing its name to Starz Inc. as a result.\n\nOn April 5, 2016, Starz was rebranded and added all the Encore channels to its moniker, therefore increasing the Starz channel lineup to 14 Starz movie channels. Its main channel was rebranded \"Starz Encore\" and carries Starz reruns in addition to films.\n\nOn June 30, 2016, Lionsgate agreed to acquire Starz Inc. for $4.4 billion in cash and stock; the acquisition was completed five months later on December 8.\n\nDepending on the service provider, MoviePlex provides up to six multiplex channels – three 24-hour multiplex channels, which are simulcast in both standard definition and high definition – as well as a subscription video-on-demand service (MoviePlex On Demand).\n\nMoviePlex broadcasts its primary and multiplex channels on an Eastern Time Zone schedule. Because MoviePlex operates a singular broadcast feed that covers every U.S. time zone, the difference in local airtimes for a particular movie or program between two locations will be at most six hours. The premium film service Starz and Encore, which are both also owned by Starz Inc., operate as separate services – although subscribers to MoviePlex do not necessarily have to subscribe to either of the two sister services.\n\n\"RetroPlex\" features older motion pictures, and is a spinoff of the MoviePlex and is owned by Starz, LLC. The headquarters of RetroPlex and its sister channels MoviePlex and IndiePlex are located on the Meridian International Business Center complex with Starz and Encore in Meridian, Colorado.\n\nRetroPlex is available nationally on Dish Network and regionally on select cable systems including Comcast, Atlantic Broadband and Verizon FiOS. Retroplex and Indieplex are also simulcast in 1080i high definition on Dish Network.\n\nMovieplex HD is a high definition simulcast feed of MoviePlex that broadcasts in the 1080i resolution format. IndiePlex and RetroPlex also maintain their own respective HD simulcasts, Indieplex HD and Retroplex HD. Unusual for a premium service, its multiplex channels have been available in HD for several years; however, the main MoviePlex channel in contrast did not have a high definition simulcast feed of its own until 2013. Movieplex HD, Indieplex HD and Retroplex HD are currently available nationally on Dish Network, and regionally on certain cable providers.\n\nMovieplex On Demand is Movieplex's video on demand service, which launched on April 4, 2006. MoviePlex On Demand's rotating program selection incorporates select new titles that are added each Friday, alongside existing program titles held over from the previous one to two weeks. It is currently available to Comcast subscribers. On April 16, 2012, as part of its new carriage agreement with Starz Entertainment, DirecTV announced it would carry MoviePlex On Demand.\n\nMoviePlex Play was a website and mobile app that provided feature film content from MoviePlex available for streaming in standard or high definition. It was available to MoviePlex subscribers of AT&T U-verse and Cox Communications until it was merged with Starz.com on April 5, 2016. The MoviePlex Play iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch app was first released on December 18, 2012, followed by the release of the app for Android devices on May 7, 2013.\n\nAlthough the channel is not purposely formatted as a family-oriented service, Movieplex's primary channel does not broadcast films with a Motion Picture Association of America rating of \"R\" or a TV Parental Guideline rating of \"TV-MA\". This dates back to the channel's original format of running sampler blocks of Encore's multiplex channels, MoviePlex did not technically simulcast each Encore channel's programs as a result, scheduling films during each day's schedule that differed from those seen on the Encore networks in some timeslots. In contrast, IndiePlex and RetroPlex will televise films with those assigned ratings.\n\nMoviePlex – through Starz – maintains exclusive first-run film licensing agreements with Sony Pictures Entertainment (since January 2005; including content from subsidiaries Columbia Pictures, Sony Pictures Classics, Screen Gems, Destination Films, Triumph Films, TriStar Pictures, and Sony Pictures Animation), Anchor Bay Entertainment, and Warren Miller Films (since 1997).\n\nThe first-run film output agreement with Walt Disney Pictures expired after December 2015, with the Netflix streaming service assuming the pay television rights in January 2016 (excluding films released by Touchstone Pictures, which will be retained by Starz through a separate contract). The first-run film output agreement with Sony was renewed for nine years on February 11, 2013; the Warren Miller output deal was renewed for ten years on October 19, 2009.\n\nMoviePlex also shows sub-runs – runs of films that have already received broadcast or syndicated television airings – of theatrical films from Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures (including content from subsidiaries Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar Animation Studios, Walt Disney Animation Studios, Marvel Studios, Disneynature, 20th Century Studios and Touchstone Pictures; for films released prior to 2015), Warner Bros. Entertainment (including content from subsidiaries New Line Cinema, Turner Entertainment (both for films released prior to 2005), and Castle Rock Entertainment), Universal Studios (including content from subsidiaries Universal Animation Studios, Focus Features, and DreamWorks Animation all for films released prior to 2003), Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (including content from subsidiaries United Artists, Orion Pictures, and The Samuel Goldwyn Company), Miramax Films (for films released prior to 2009), Paramount Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Revolution Studios, Overture Films, Yari Film Group, and the current network sister company Lions Gate Entertainment.\nIn January 1997, MoviePlex secured a licensing agreement with Paramount Pictures, broadcasting over 300 movie titles. Paramount's first contract with MoviePlex expired in December 2005. In March 2013, MoviePlex reassumed sub-run rights to Paramount Pictures' feature film releases. The first film broadcast through this deal was \"Sunset Boulevard\". Additional Paramount Pictures releases began to be broadcast on MoviePlex starting the following month, such as \"The Errand Boy\", \"The Stooge\" and \"The Bellboy\".\n\nMoviePlex is available nationally on Dish Network, and regionally on select cable systems including Comcast Xfinity, Cox Communications and AT&T U-verse. IndiePlex and RetroPlex are currently available on Dish Network, Xfinity, Atlantic Broadband and Verizon FiOS.\n\nOn April 16, 2012, DirecTV and Starz Entertainment reached a new carriage agreement that would allow MoviePlex, IndiePlex and RetroPlex to join DirecTV's channel lineup. The press release did not include a launch date, nor did it specify whether the channels would be available in standard definition, high definition or both.\n"}
{"id": "1917356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917356", "title": "Loftmynd", "text": "Loftmynd\n\nLoftmynd (\"Aerial\") was an album released in August 1987 by Icelandic rock singer Megas. Formed of 17 tracks, this album was released through Gramm and featured singer Björk and her sister Inga Guðmundsdóttir as background vocalists. \"Loftmynd\" also includes Megas’ long-time collaborator Guðlaugur Kristinn Óttarsson who added guitars.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917357", "title": "George Park (politician)", "text": "George Park (politician)\n\nGeorge MacLean Park (27 September 1914 – 8 May 1994) was a British Labour Party politician.\n\nBorn in Glasgow, Park was educated at the Onslow Drive Grammar School and Whitehill Grammar School, then moved to Coventry, where he studied at Coventry Technical College. He worked in the motor industry in Coventry, where he was the Amalgamated Engineering Union Convenor at the Ryton Plant of the (then) Rootes Group. He was a councillor in the Holbrooks Ward and later leader of Coventry City Council and the West Midlands County Council.\n\nPark served as Member of Parliament (MP) for Coventry North East from February 1974 to 1987. He was a TGWU-sponsored MP and was Parliamentary Private Secretary to Eric Varley.\n\nHe decided not to stand for re-election in the run-up to the 1987 general election, after the left wing won control of his Constituency Labour Party. His successor was John Hughes.\n"}
{"id": "1917364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917364", "title": "Höfuðlausnir", "text": "Höfuðlausnir\n\nHöfuðlausnir was an album released in May 1988 by Icelandic rock singer Megas. This album was released through Gramm and featured singers Björk and Rose McDowall as background vocalists. \"Höfuðlausnir\" also includes Megas’ long-time collaborator Guðlaugur Kristinn Óttarsson who adding guitars to this work.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917370", "title": "Hættuleg hljómsveit &amp; glæpakvendið Stella", "text": "Hættuleg hljómsveit &amp; glæpakvendið Stella\n\nHættuleg hljómsveit & glæpakvendið Stella was an album released in September 1990 by Icelandic rock singer Megas. This double CD album featured The Sugarcubes, a band led by Björk and Einar Örn Benediktsson.<br>\nGuðlaugur Kristinn Óttarsson is featured here adding guitars.\n\nThe album title means “A dangerous band & the criminal Stella”.\n\nCD length: 46:10\n\nCD length: 41:00\n"}
{"id": "1917378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917378", "title": "Drög að Upprisu", "text": "Drög að Upprisu\n\nDrög að Upprisu is an album released in 1994 by Icelandic singer Megas. Formed by 16 tracks, this work counted with the collaboration of guitarist Guðlaugur Kristinn Óttarsson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917381", "title": "List of Italian Army equipment in World War II", "text": "List of Italian Army equipment in World War II\n\nThe following is a list of equipment used by the Royal Italian Army (\"Regio Esercito\"), Italian Air Force (\"Regia Aeronautica\"), and Royal Italian Navy (\"Regia Marina\") during World War II.\n\n\n\nItalian artillery was usually designated using the calibre and length of the barrel in number of calibre lengths, so \"90/53\" would mean a weapon with a 90 mm diameter barrel where the length of the barrel was approximately 53 calibre lengths (i.e. 53x90 mm, that is 4.77 m).\nSee also:\n\nBefore and during World War II, Italy designed most of their anti-aircraft guns and some its infantry guns to also serve in the anti-tank role. No dedicated anti-tank gun was produced. Listed below is just the guns used in anti-tank role most commonly.\n\n\nAll calibers of AA guns were also mounted in portee trucks in dual roles (ground attack and AA).\n\nThe Italian designation system for tanks consisted of a letter (L, M or P; designating light, medium and heavy tanks respectively) followed by two numbers: one giving the approximate weight in tons, the other giving the year it was accepted for service. Thus \"M11/39\" means the 11 ton medium tank of 1939. The Italian definitions of light, medium and heavy tank differ from other nations at the time. For instance the Italian \"medium\" tanks are often described as \"light\" in other sources.\n\nThe L3 tankette was also a basis for several engineering vehicles.\n\nDuring World War II, Italy regularly mounted cannons on portee trucks. Also, permanent installation of guns on trucks and armored cars were done on ad-hoc basis, therefore many self-propelled guns had no official name besides descriptive type of truck plus type of cannon. Below is the grossly incomplete list of these self-propelled weapons.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Italy was late on the radar development;\nAt the date of the armistice in 1943, 84 of 85 radars in operation were German-built.\nItalian Army and Navy have deployed a network of radar detectors and jammers though.\n\nSee also: Armi avanzate della Seconda Guerra Mondiale/Appendix 4 (wikibook)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917383", "title": "Manhattan Psychiatric Center", "text": "Manhattan Psychiatric Center\n\nThe Manhattan Psychiatric Center is a New York-state run psychiatric hospital on Wards Island in New York City. As of 2009, it was licensed for 509 beds, but held only around 200 patients. The current building is 17 stories tall. The building strongly resembles that of the Creedmoor Psychiatric Center in Queens.\n\nThe hospital's roots date to 1848 when Wards Island was designated the reception area for immigrants. Some additional structures were originally part of Blackwell's Island Lunatic Asylum, which opened around 1863. The New York City Asylum for the Insane opened in 1863.\n\nThe building was significantly enlarged in 1871, and a Kirkbride Plan style building was built. After the immigration entry shifted to Ellis Island in 1892, the state took it over from Manhattan in 1899 and expanded it even further, renaming it the Manhattan State Hospital. At the time, it had 4,400 beds and was the largest psychiatric hospital in the world. \n\nAt the time, it was one of two psychiatric hospitals for residents of Manhattan that had been taken over by the state. The other psychiatric hospital would become the Central Islip Psychiatric Center in Central Islip, New York. Both hospitals were referred to as \"Manhattan State Hospital\".\n\nIt later became the Manhattan Psychiatric Center. The current building complex was constructed in 1954. The facility is run and operated by the New York State Office of Mental Health.\n\nThe site is surrounded by Wards Island Park, which is administered by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation.\n\nThere is a Manned VTS Vessel Traffic Service Radar on one of the Original Hospital buildings: VTS Randalls Island, Manned VTS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917387", "title": "Brittany Tiplady", "text": "Brittany Tiplady\n\nBrittany Alexandra Tiplady (born January 21, 1991) is a Canadian actress best known for her role as Jordan Black in the television series \"Millennium\" (1996–99). She won a 1998 Young Artist Award for Best Performance in a TV Drama Series – Supporting Actress. She also played the role of Maggie in the 2007 film \"Hot Rod\".\n\nHer brother Avery is also a child performer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917388", "title": "University Hill Secondary School", "text": "University Hill Secondary School\n\nUniversity Hill Secondary School (generally known as U-Hill or Uhill) is a public secondary school in Vancouver, just west of the city limits of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.\n\nUniversity Hill School began as a kindergarten to grade 12 school in September, 1927, on the site of what is now University Hill Elementary School. The K-12 school remained on that site until 1954, when the secondary school split from the elementary school and was built on a site on Acadia Road. Both schools were run by its own unique school board from 1927–1971, by special UEL elections. In 1971, the Schools joined the Vancouver School Board.\n\nIn 2013 the school moved to a new, larger building in Wesbrook Place in UBC. The former location became the location for the newly established Norma Rose Point Elementary.\n\nThe school is situated next to Pacific Spirit Regional Park. University Hill's school colour is purple. There are two logos, one is historical and popular, with UHS on a traditional shield; and the other is a stylized hawk symbolizing an affinity with nature and a commitment to action. 2003 marked the 75th anniversary of University Hill Secondary School.\n\nSince the school moved into a brand new facility on the UBC campus, the school's test scores have dropped considerably. In 2017 the school scored 6.1/10.0, and in 2018 the school scored 5.2/10.0. The school is ranked 175th in BC, according to the Fraser Institute.\n\nFor many years the school was ranked as the number one public secondary school in British Columbia, according to the Fraser Institute. At one point it even scored a perfect score. However, the ranking's methodology is controversial.\n\nUniversity Hill offers a variety of sports to its students including volleyball, soccer, rugby, table tennis, badminton and basketball, but fail to find success in most of the listed. In the fall, Junior and Senior Girls Volleyball is played in Vancouver Secondary Schools' leagues as well as Senior Boys' soccer. In the winter, basketball and table tennis are offered for both boys and girls. Boys' Volleyball, girls' soccer, and boys' and girls' tennis are offered in the spring. In addition, badminton is also offered throughout the year. All school teams are known as the U-Hill Hawks.\nIn 1999-2000, The Hawks became provincial champions in swimming. Their team won by a landslide, setting several new records in both individual and relay events. All but one of the 9 records held by the U-Hill swim team are still standing. Ironically, there hasn't been a swim team since the Provincials in 2000. The U-Hill track and field team placed third in the cities in 2008. Their junior boys team came in first overall in 2007 and 2009. The U-Hill golf team was started up in 2007-2008 year and in the spring of 2009 U-Hill won City Championships. However they were neglected from the AAA golf provincials for having been registered as a AA school. The U-Hill senior boys soccer team won the AA city championships in 1999 and 2004. They also made it to the city finals in the years 2006 and 2007. In 2014 the U-Hill girl's table tennis team took home the provincial championship beating out Burnaby North Secondary School in team competition and Magee Secondary School in singles competition.\nIn 2017, the juvenile boys basketball team finished 2nd in Vancouver and 10th in the province.\nIn November 2017, the Junior Girls' volleyball team won gold in the city finals and the Senior Girls' volleyball team placed 2nd place in the final. One year after the volleyball city finals, the Uhill Senior Boys Soccer team also captured the school’s very first championship for the sport.\n\nA service open to students in the for those with learning disabilities. Courses are modified from the regular curriculum. Most student timetables are partially integrated with regular courses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917408", "title": "Superwolf", "text": "Superwolf\n\nSuperwolf is a 2005 collaborative studio album by Bonnie 'Prince' Billy and Matt Sweeney. It was released on Drag City.\n\nAt Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 80, based on 17 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n\"Pitchfork\" placed the album at number 21 on the \"Top 50 Albums of 2005\" list.\n\nIn 2007, \"Spin\" included Bonnie 'Prince' Billy and Matt Sweeney on the \"Rock's 25 Greatest Team-ups\" list.\n\nCredits adapted from liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917417", "title": "John Shuttleworth", "text": "John Shuttleworth\n\nJohn Shuttleworth may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1917423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917423", "title": "Bandundu (city)", "text": "Bandundu (city)\n\nBandundu, formerly known as Banningville or Banningstad, is the capital city of Kwilu Province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nBandundu is located on the east bank of the Kwango River, just north of the juncture of the Kwango and the Kwilu, and south from the mouth of the Kwango on the Kasai River. It is around from Kinshasa by air, or about by road. In 2009, Bandundu had an estimated population of 133,080.\n\nBandundu was once a significant river port, as it is the largest town on the river between Kinshasa and Kikwit. However, traffic on the Kasai and Kwango Rivers dropped dramatically as a result of the Second Congo War, and has yet to recover. Bandundu does have intermittent passenger and freight service to Kinshasa, Mushie and Kikwit. Since 2008, there is a car/truck ferry service running several times per day across the Kwango. An unpaved road, roughly 250 km long, runs from this point to the main (paved) highway between Kinshasa and Kikwit.\n\nBandundu is served by Bandundu Airport, with direct flights to Kinshasa. \n\nUnlike many cities in the Congo, Bandundu has a fairly constant supply of electricity. However this has nothing to do with Inga-Shaba HVDC line, as this line has no intermediate terminals.\nUnder the Köppen climate classification, Bandundu has a tropical wet and dry climate (\"Aw\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1917438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917438", "title": "Barth, Germany", "text": "Barth, Germany\n\nBarth is a town in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany. It is situated at a lagoon (Bodden) of the Baltic Sea facing the Fischland-Darss-Zingst peninsula. Barth belongs to the district of Vorpommern-Rügen. It is close to the Western Pomerania Lagoon Area National Park. In 2011, it held a population of 8,706.\n\nBarth dates back to the medieval German Ostsiedlung, before the area was settled by Wends of the Liuticians or Rani tribe. Jaromar II, Danish prince of Rügen, granted the town Lübeck law in 1255. In the same document, he agreed to remove his burgh, \"Borgwall\" or \"Neue Burg\", then on the northwestern edge of the town's projected limits. Another Wendish burgh, \"Alte Burg\" near today's train station, was not used anymore. The German town was set up on empty space between the burghs. Not a member of the Hanseatic League, the town never grew to the importance and size of neighboring Hanseatic towns like Stralsund. The last prince of Rügen, Witzlaw III, erected a court at the site of former \"Neue Burg\" in 1315. He often resided in Barth.\n\nAfter Witzlaw's death without an issue in 1325, his principality was inherited by Wartislaw IV of the Duchy of Pomerania, who however had to enforce his claims by two subsequent wars with Mecklenburg. During these wars, Barth was fortified with a stone and brick wall. The wars as well as contemporary and subsequent Black Death epidemics (1349, 1405 and 1451) and floods hindered Barth's growth. In 1452, Barth was besieged by Mecklenburgian troops when Wartislaw IX did not pay his debts. Hostilities between the Pomeranian dukes Eric II and Wartislaw X on one side and the Hanseatic towns of Stralsund and Greifswald, Mecklenburg and the Margraviate of Brandenburg on the other side had an additional negative impact on the town.\n\nIn 1533, the Protestant Reformation turned Barth into a Lutheran town. In 1572, Bogislaw XIII rebuilt the ducal court in Renaissance style, and married Clare of Brunswick-Lüneburg who was later buried in Barth. Bogislaw planned to oppose Stralsund by founding Franzburg in her hinterland, Barth was thought to function as Franzburg's port and staple place. While the plan eventually failed, Bogislaw's investments led to some slight prosperity which was only disturbed by the Black Death epidemics of 1597 and 1598.\n\nIn 1627, during the Thirty Years' War, Wallenstein's imperial army entered Protestant Pomerania and, after they were repelled from Barth, re-took the town and exacted revenge. Before the Swedish forces entered Barth in 1630, retreating imperial troops led by Maritzen looted the town. As the war went on, some women convicted as witches were burned in the town between 1645 and 1653, three had already been burned in 1611.\n\nAfter the war, Barth became part of Swedish Pomerania. In the early Swedish period, three stormfloods (1649, 1663, and 1693), a fire in 1662, and another fire in 1678 ravaged the town; the second fire was laid by Brandenburg's von Treffenfeld during the Scanian War. During the Great Northern War, the evicted Polish king Stanislaus Leszczynski was assigned Barth's old ducal court by his friend and ally, Holy Roman Emperor Karl XII, and stayed from August 1710 until March 1711. Then, Barth was conquered by Denmark. By the end of the war, when Barth became Swedish again, less than half of the town's houses were inhabited. After a fire in 1722, the number of houses was reduced to 76.\n\nThe town however recovered and in 1795 the number of houses had risen to 520, housing a population of 3,150. Yet, the town did not exceed its medieval limits. The fortifications surrounding the town were turned into a park in 1786.\n\nIn 1807, during the Napoleonic Wars, Barth was taken by French troops. A Swedish counterattack was repelled, and Barth was turned into a French garrison until the Swedish-French peace treaty.\n\nThe Swedes left Barth after Swedish Pomerania was assigned to Prussia in 1815. From then on, the town was part of the Province of Pomerania.\n\nIn 1850, a Cholera epidemics lasted for seven weeks. In 1872, Barth was affected by a stormflood, that retreated only after ten days.\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century, the town expanded beyond its medieval limits for the first time. On 1 July 1888, Barth was connected to the Rostock-Stralsund railways, in 1902 a gas plant was built, and in 1920 electricity was introduced.\n\nAfter the First World War, the Free State of Prussia moved the Kreis headquarters from Franzburg to Barth.\n\nDuring World War II Barth was the site of a German prison of war camp, Stalag Luft I, for captured Allied airmen. The presence of the prison camp is said to have shielded the town from Allied bombing.\n\nKreis Franzburg-Barth was dissolved in 1952, when it was partitioned between Kreis Ribnitz-Damgarten (with Barth) and Kreis Stralsund, both belonging to the newly created district of Rostock (\"Bezirk Rostock\").\nWith the Fall of the Iron Curtain and German reunification, an extensive renovation of the old town centre of Barth was initiated - mainly due to the urban development promotion programme of Germany. The town harbour and surrounding areas were revitalized with residential and commercial buildings. The city is a popular destination for tourists now, especially in connection with the Fischland-Darss-Zingst peninsula and the UNESCO World Heritage city of Stralsund.\n\nIn 2005, Barth celebrated 750 years of its town ordinances and privileges.\nSince the local government reform on September 4, 2011, Barth has belonged to the Vorpommern-Rügen district in the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.\n\nBarth has a moderate climate. Average temperature and precipitation between 1961 and 1990 are shown below.\n\n\nAccording to a theory by Goldmann and Wermusch, Barth is the site of the sunken town of Vineta. Barth is attracting tourists with the Vineta legend. Nowadays, there is a Vineta museum and a Vineta festival in the town.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917443", "title": "Non-Linear Systems", "text": "Non-Linear Systems\n\nNon-Linear Systems is an electronics manufacturing company based in San Diego, California. Non-Linear Systems was founded in 1952, by Andrew Kay, the inventor of the digital voltmeter in 1954.\n\nNLS developed a reputation for providing rugged durability in critical applications for everything from submarines to spacecraft.\n\nLater the company developed miniature digital voltmeters and frequency counters. During the early 1980s the company started Kaypro, which developed an early personal computer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917451", "title": "Matthew 2:15", "text": "Matthew 2:15\n\nMatthew 2:15 is the fifteenth verse of the second chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. Joseph has taken Jesus and his family to Egypt to flee the wrath of King Herod.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 2:15\n\nHerod is believed to have died in March of 4 BC. The Gospel gives little detail about the Holy Family's time in Egypt, but there are a number of apocryphal tales filling in this period. These stories of the time in Egypt have been especially important to the Coptic Church, which is based in that country. Throughout Egypt there are a number of churches and shrines that claim to mark an area where the Holy Family stayed. The most important of these is the church of Abu Serghis that claims to be built on the place the family had its home.\n\nThis verse contains Matthew's third direct quote from the Old Testament. This brief line is from , referring to God's call to Israel as his firstborn son (cf. ) 'out of Egypt at the time of Exodus'.\nMatthew's emphasis here is 'the truth that Jesus is the embodiment and fulfillment of the mission and identity of Israel', because 'everything that God called Israel to be, Jesus is'. Long observes the faint outlines of a prominent theological theme in Matthew, that is, 'the hidden hand of God ruling human history'; whereas the course of human affairs seems to be at random, beneath the surface is the 'narrative of grace and redemption, firmly written by the hidden hand of God'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917457", "title": "1976 Portuguese legislative election", "text": "1976 Portuguese legislative election\n\nThe Portuguese legislative election of 1976 took place on 25 April, exactly one year after the previous election, and two years after the Carnation Revolution. With a new Constitution approved, the country's main aim was economic recovery and strengthening its democratic institutions.\n\nThe Socialist Party won a plurality of legislative seats, and its leader Mário Soares became the Prime Minister of the 1st Constitutional government on 23 July 1976. The lack of a socialist majority forced his party to form an unexpected coalition with the Democratic and Social Center, a right-wing party. The nature of this coalition, between a socialist party and a conservative party that voted against the new constitution because of its socialist influences, surprised most Portuguese voters and marked the start of the Socialist Party's right-wing turn that would soon be attacked by all the left due to the new government's measures against left-wing reforms following the Carnation Revolution, mainly concerning agrarian reform.\n\nThe Social Democratic Party (then known as the \"Democratic People's Party\", PPD) won the second most seats and the Portuguese Communist Party achieved considerable gains that reflected its growing influence, mainly in the south of the country.\n\nThe Assembly of the Republic has 263 members elected to four-year terms. The total number of MPs increased to 263 from the 1975 total of 250 MPs. Governments do not require absolute majority support of the Assembly to hold office, as even if the number of opposers of government is larger than that of the supporters, the number of opposers still needs to be equal or greater than 132 (absolute majority) for both the Government's Programme to be rejected or for a motion of no confidence to be approved.\n\nThe number of seats assigned to each district depends on the district magnitude. The use of the d'Hondt method makes for a higher effective threshold than certain other allocation methods such as the Hare quota or Sainte-Laguë method, which are more generous to small parties.\n\nThe major parties involved and the respective leaders:\n\n\n! rowspan=\"2\" colspan=2 style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=left|Parties\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|Votes\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! colspan=\"5\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=\"center\"|Seats\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align:right;\" |MPs %/votes %\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1975\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1976\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n\n!rowspan=2|Constituency!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S\n!rowspan=2|TotalS\n!colspan=2 | PS\n!colspan=2 | PPD\n!colspan=2 | CDS\n!colspan=2 | PCP\n!colspan=2 | UDP\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917459", "title": "Nutty Professor II: The Klumps", "text": "Nutty Professor II: The Klumps\n\nNutty Professor II: The Klumps is a 2000 American science-fiction romantic-comedy film directed by Peter Segal. It is a sequel to the 1996 film \"The Nutty Professor\".\n\nIn contrast to the previous film, subplots which are centered on his parents (with his brother and grandmother providing comic relief) occupy a substantial part of the film. Like the first film, the sequel's theme song is \"Macho Man\" by The Village People, which this time is played during the end credits.\n\nSherman Klump has created a new youth formula which enables those who take it to de-age. He has also fallen in love with a colleague, Denise Gaines, who has developed a method to isolate genetic material. Despite his good fortune, Sherman has a major problem: the personality of his alter ego Buddy Love is still ingrained inside him and has begun to periodically take control of his body. Sherman tries proposing to Denise, but Buddy takes over and humiliates him, mortifying Denise.\n\nDetermined to be rid of Buddy permanently, and despite his assistant Jason warning him of potentially consequences for his health, Sherman uses Denise's methodology to isolate and remove a gene in his DNA where Buddy has manifested. However, the genetic material containing Buddy grows into a sentient being when a hair from a Basset Hound accidentally lands in it. Sherman apologizes to Denise and the two become engaged. Later, Dean Richmond informs the two that a pharmaceutical firm has offered Wellman College $150 million for the youth formula.\n\nSherman and Denise then encounter the newly reformed Buddy at a movie theater. Buddy pickpockets Sherman and learns of the $150 million offer. He subsequently visits the pharmaceutical company and makes a rival bid for the youth formula. Sherman learns that due to the extraction, his body chemistry has been altered and that he is losing his intelligence. Realizing he needs to keep the youth formula out of Buddy's hands, Sherman stashes it at his parents' house.\n\nSherman's father Cletus, who is sexually frustrated due to his age and impotence, drinks some of the youth formula. He goes out for a night on the town and attempts to seduce his wife, but she is horrified. Buddy love witnesses Cletus changing and realizes that the youth formula is being stored in the Klump household. Meanwhile, Sherman's condition causes him to act like a fool in front of Denise's parents, concerning her.\n\nBuddy steals some of the youth formula from the Klump household, and fills the vial the rest of the way with fertilizer. This sabotage causes chaos at a demonstration the next day, as a hamster Sherman uses to demonstrate the formula instead mutates into a giant monster who violates Dean Richmond. The humiliated and enraged Dean fires Sherman. Sherman learns that his brain's deterioration has worsened from Jason, and he decides to break up with Denise. Cletus reconciles with his wife and consoles a depressed Sherman.\n\nSherman quickly works on a newer, much more potent formula while his mental faculties allow him to. Richmond confronts him about Buddy's actions, believing the two are working together. Sherman leaves with Richmond and a tennis ball covered in the youth formula and head to a presentation Buddy is giving about the youth formula. Meanwhile, a worried Denise discovers what has happened and that Sherman's brain damage is still progressing. Enlisting the help of Cletus, Denise goes after him. Sherman takes advantage of the canine DNA that crossed with Buddy's, and uses the tennis ball to distract him. Buddy catches the ball in his mouth, and the youth formula transforms Buddy back into a glowing mass of sentient genetic material.\n\nSherman chases the genetic material, intent on drinking it to correct his condition. However, the material evaporates on the edge of a fountain before he can consume it. Denise and Cletus arrive too late to save him, and Denise breaks into tears, which hit the genetic material and fall into the fountain. As they go to leave, Sherman takes a look at a fountain and remarks that it is \"pretty\". Seeing that the water is glowing, Denise realizes that the genetic material has reconstituted thanks to her tears and has fallen into the fountain, and that if Sherman drinks the fountain water before it dissipates, he will be restored to normal. Sherman drinks the water, and is able to get his genetic makeup back in proper order, restoring his intelligence.\n\nDenise and Sherman's later get married, while Richmond entertains the idea of loving the hamster, who has returned to normal.\n\nThe film grossed over $42.5 million in its opening weekend and went on to a total gross of over $123.3 million. It earned an additional $43 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $166.3 million worldwide.\n\nUnlike the first film, \"Nutty Professor II\" received mixed reviews from critics. Adjectives such as \"obnoxious\", \"lowbrow\", \"bloated\", and \"unfunny\" cropped up frequently in reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 26% based on reviews from 88 critics. The site's consensus states that \"While Eddie Murphy is still hilarious as the entire Klump family, the movie falls apart because of uneven pacing, a poor script, and skits that rely on being gross rather than funny.\" On Metacritic the film has a score of 38 out of 100, based on reviews from 34 critics. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade C+ on scale of A to F.\n\nSalon.com's reviewer gave the movie one of its few positive notices, and offered the praise \"cheerfully vulgar\".\n\"The New Yorker's\" Anthony Lane was particularly severe; in addition to hating the film, he dismissed Murphy's playing of multiple characters as \"minstrelling\", and charged the actor with \"at once feeding us what we like and despising us for swallowing it.\" Most critics, gave a generally negative assessment of the movie with at least a nod towards Murphy's versatility and comic talent.\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film three stars, noting that while it was \"raucous\" and \"scatological,\" the film overall proved to be \"very funny\" and \"never less than amazing.\"\nVariety's Joe Leydon wrote: \"Be prepared to laugh less at a lot more of the same thing in this overbearing but underwhelming sequel.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1917463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917463", "title": "Åråsen Stadion", "text": "Åråsen Stadion\n\nThe Åråsen Stadion is an all-seater football stadium located in Lillestrøm, a city east of Oslo in Skedsmo, Norway. With a capacity of 11,500 spectators, the venue is the home of the 1.divisjon side Lillestrøm SK (LSK). The stadium has four stands, of which the West Stand has luxury boxes and club seating for 700. Because of the stadium's proximity to Kjeller Airport, it has retractable floodlights. The record attendance of 13,652 dates from 2002. In addition to league, cup and UEFA Cup matches for LSK, the venue has been used for one Strømmen IF top-league match in 1986, the UEFA Women's Euro 1997, eight other Norway women's national football team matches, the 2002 UEFA European Under-19 Football Championship, and seven Norway national under-21 football team matches.\n\nLSK started purchasing land for their own stadium in 1947, having previously played at Lillestrøm Stadion. Construction started in 1950 and Åråsen opened on 7 July 1951, having cost 150,000 Norwegian krone (NOK). The grandstand was supplemented with a second stand in 1960. On 7 April 1967, the stadium burned down, but was rebuilt by September 1968. Another stand opened on the east side in 1974, the same year as LSK was promoted to the 1. divisjon, then the highest division of Norwegian football. The East Stand was moved to the north side and a new 3,700-seat stand built on the east side in 1978, which remains today. Between 1999 and 2002, the other three sides were redeveloped, costing NOK 240 million. This included luxury boxes, a new pitch with under-soil heating, three grandstands, and adjacent commercial and residential property.\n\nLillestrøm SK originally used Jenseberg Stadion in Strømmen for their matches, as there was no suitable stadium in Lillestrøm. On 6 June 1920, the municipality opened Lillestrøm Stadion, where Lillestrøm SK moved their matches. In 1930, the club started working on plans for their own stadium. Led by the chairman Erling Nicolaysen, a stadium fund was established, which grew to NOK 200. However, during the Second World War, the club's funds eradicated.\n\nOn 2 June 1947, the club's board appointed a committee to work with the stadium issue. They determined that the area Sørumsbrenna, part of a farm belonging to Knut Sørum, was the ideal location, despite it being fallow and scrub on a marsh. Holthe og Ahlsen made plans for developing the lot. The purchase was approved by the club's annual meeting on 29 September. Additional land was bought in 1948 and 1950, raising the area to .\n\nConstruction was mostly done by volunteers; the building of the stadium required 31,000 man-hours in volunteer work and cost NOK 150,000. After the land was cleared, a layer of mixed sand and earth were laid. The pitch, with the dimensions , was sown in mid-1950. The work also included a grandstand, changing rooms, a watering system and kiosks. The stand could accommodate 2,500 spectators, and the stadium had a total permitted capacity of 6,000 people. The inaugural match was played against Sarpsborg on 7 July 1951 in front of 3,500 spectators. A training pitch beside the stadium pitch opened in 1953. The following year, a new steel entrance was built, following in 1955 with a referees' changing room and administrative offices. In 1959, after eight years of planning, construction of an additional terrace started, which opened in 1960.\n\nOn 7 April 1967, the grandstand caught fire and the entire structure burned down beyond repair. The buildings and stands were subsequently demolished. At the same time, the Norwegian Public Roads Administration proposed that the Fetveien road, which runs to the south of the stadium, should be moved to run through the stadium, which would have required the stadium to be moved. However, the Public Roads Administration abandoned their plans and a building permit was issued. New changing rooms, club house and terraces were completed in September 1968.\nTo accommodate increasing interest for the club following good results during the early 1970s, the board approved a new grandstand on the east long side. Construction started in late 1973, with the stand covering two-thirds of the length of the pitch, and opened ahead of the 1974 season with capacity for 1,056 spectators. The club house was expanded to . In 1974, the club won promotion to the First Division, and the new grandstand was extended by 352 seats. On the west side, two wooden and steel standing terraces were built. The expansion was done with help of volunteer work, with 30 to 40 people helping each weekday evening and up to 80 people helping at the weekends.\n\nThe grandstand was moved to the north side and a new grandstand with seating for 3,700 people was opened on the east end in 1978. The new stand was the first in Norway to have plastic seats and is the oldest part of the current stadium. Construction cost NOK 2.8 million, which was largely loan-financed. Between 1980 and 1986, the area under the new grandstand was built to include new changing rooms, meeting rooms, offices and other facilities totaling . Some of the office space was rented out.\n\nAfter five years of planning, construction of a completely renovated stadium started in February 1999. To finance the stadium, a limited company, Åråsen Stadion AS, was established, and owned by the club, rather than by the limited company which runs the elite team. Only the East Stand from 1978 was kept. In 2000, new grass was laid on the pitch, replacing the original grass from 1950. This included installation of under-soil heating and an automatic irrigation sprinkler system. The new pitch had the dimensions . Combined, this cost NOK 12 million. The first new stand to be completed was the West Stand, which opened ahead of the 2000 season. In addition to luxury boxes, it consists of of commercial property, including a car dealer, a medical center and a restaurant.\nThe investments at Åråsen cost NOK 800 million, of which NOK 240 million was used on the stadium itself. Other investments in the area were carried out by private investors and public agencies, who bought land from Lillestrøm SK. The training pitch to the north was demolished to make way for student housing for 100 people. The area to the west of the stadium was turned into a car retailer. Immediately surrounding the stadium was a complex of commercial and residential properties. This included a section to the north which consists of 96 apartments, some with balconies facing the pitch, and a grocery store. Construction of the South Stand and affiliated buildings started on 15 November 2000 and was completed ahead of the 2002 season. In conjunction with the stand was a commercial area rented by Akershus County Municipality, which hosts a psychiatric clinic for children and youth.\n\nBecause of the stadium's close proximity to Kjeller Airport, the stadium is limited to a height of , which meant the upgrade could not incorporate floodlights. When mounted on four posts, the flood lights need to be above ground to give 1,200 lux on the field. In 2000, this caused Lillestrøm SK to have to play their home match in the 2000–01 UEFA Cup against Alavés at Marienlyst Stadion in Drammen. In 2001, an evening league game was played using floodlighting mounted on four temporary cranes. A retractable floodlighting system was installed in January 2002.\n\nIn 2006, team-owner Per Berg stated that Lillestrøm SK would be in need of a new venue and indicated that one could be built at Kjeller, should the airport close. By 2007, the club's management was working on ideas to building new stadium, as the luxury boxes were all sold out and the club could not make more than NOK 22 to 23 million per year on commercial income from Åråsen. In 2009, Lillestrøm launched itself as one of six candidate cities for Norway's joint bid with Sweden to host Euro 2016. This would involve building a new venue seating between 35,000 and 44,000 in Lillestrøm. The stadium would be built in modules, so the upper tiers could be dismounted after the championship and installed on other venues. The proposal was selected as one of four for the bid, but the bid was never sent. In January 2009, the club sold 25 percent of their ownership in Åråsen Eiendom, which is responsible for operating the commercial facilities at the stadium, to Lillestrømbanken, a local bank, for NOK 9 million. The club retained full ownership of Åråsen Stadion AS, the company which owns the venue. In a 2012 survey carried out by the Norwegian Players' Association among away-team captains, Åråsen was found to be the league's third-best stadium, with a score of 4.33 on a scale from one to five.\n\nÅråsen Stadion has a capacity of 12,250 spectators, all seated. The stadium consists of four single-tier stands. The western stand is the main stand, with the upper section consisting of luxury boxes and club seating for 700 people. For sponsorship reasons it is known as the Lillestrøm Torv Stand, after a local shopping center. The southern part of the East Stand houses the Kanarifansen, the official LSK supporters' group, while the northern part has unreserved seating. The South Stand is named for \"Romerikes Blad\", the local newspaper, while the North Stand is named for Legea, a sportswear manufacturer. The latter is used for away fans. The stadium is owned by Åråsen Stadion AS, which is again wholly owned by Lillestrøm SK. Operation of the venue's commercial properties is done by Åråsen Eiendom AS, which is owned 75 percent by Åråsen Stadion and 25 percent by Lillestrømbanken. The stadium is within walking distance of both the town center of Lillestrøm and Lillestrøm Station. Lillestrøm SK hold their training sessions in the nearby Lillestrøm Stadion and LSK-Hallen.\n\nÅråsen has been the home venue for Lillestrøm SK since the 1951 season and has been the venue for all their home league games. Since the 1975 season, LSK has played every season in the top tier of the league system. Åråsen has also been the venue for most LSK matches in UEFA tournaments, including the Champions League and the UEFA Cup, but the club has previously played some home matches at Ullevaal Stadion in Oslo and Marienlyst Stadion. The record attendance of 13,652 spectators was set on 16 May 2002 in the match between Lillestrøm and their rivals Vålerenga. The second-highest attended match was a cup match against Rosenborg in 1993, which attracted 13,595 people. The team's highest average league attendance was set in the 2007 season, when there was an average of 9,018 spectators per match. The team's season average has been above 6,000 during the 2000s, and was as low as 6,165 in 2010 and 6,448 in 2001. The team also saw high attendances in the 1970s, attracting its fourth-ever highest average in 1977 with 8,430 spectators, and attendances of 6,531 and 6,346 in 1978 and 1976, respectively. LSK's club seats was in 2009 the most expensive tickets in the league, costing NOK 660 per match.\n\nWhen Strømmen IF were promoted to First Division ahead of the 1986 season, the team originally announced that they would play their fall games at Åråsen, as Strømmen Stadion was in need of a new pitch. In the end, Strømmen only played one of their matches at Åråsen, drawing 1–1 against Rosenborg on 10 August 1986 in front of 1,649 spectators.\n\nNorway co-hosted UEFA Women's Euro 1997, and three group-stage matches and a semi-final were held at Åråsen. This included Norway playing two matches, against Denmark and Italy, which attracted 4,221 and 4,067 spectators, respectively. Norway's national women's team has also played eight other matches at Åråsen: 3–0 against Finland in 1983, 2–2 against Sweden in 1984, 1–0 against Finland in 1985, 4–0 against England in 1997, 2–0 against England in 1998, 4–0 against Ukraine in 2001, 4–1 against Ukraine in 2005 and 3–0 against Austria in 2007.\n\nNorway hosted the 2002 UEFA European Under-19 Football Championship, with two group-stage matches being played at Åråsen. On 23 July, Slovakia beat the Czech Republic 5–2, and on 26 July Germany beat Belgium 2–1. The former attracted 611 spectators. The Norway national under-21 football team has played seven home matches at Åråsen: 1–3 against Sweden in 1979, 1–2 against France in 1987, 3–2 against San Marino in 1992, 0–0 against Georgia in 1999, 3–0 against Germany in 2001, 0–0 against Slovenia in 2004, and 1–0 against Turkey in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "1917473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917473", "title": "Tom Steele", "text": "Tom Steele\n\nTom Steele (15 November 1905 – 28 May 1979) was a Scottish Labour politician.\n\nSteele worked as a station master and served on the board of the Lanark Co-operative Society.\n\nSteele was elected as Member of Parliament for the constituency of Lanark in 1945, defeating future Prime Minister Lord Dunglass (Alec Douglas-Home), and served as Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of National Insurance.\n\nHe lost this seat back to Douglas-Home in 1950, but was elected for Dunbartonshire West at a by-election later that year. He held this seat until he retired in 1970, to be replaced by Ian Campbell.\n\nAt elections his campaign sometimes used the slogan \"Vote Steele For Strength\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1917477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917477", "title": "Deoxyribozyme", "text": "Deoxyribozyme\n\nDeoxyribozymes, also called DNA enzymes, DNAzymes, or catalytic DNA, are DNA oligonucleotides that are capable of performing a specific chemical reaction, often but not always catalytic. This is similar to the action of other biological enzymes, such as proteins or ribozymes (enzymes composed of RNA).\nHowever, in contrast to the abundance of protein enzymes in biological systems and the discovery of biological ribozymes in the 1980s,\nthere is only little evidence for naturally occurring deoxyribozymes.\nDeoxyribozymes should not be confused with DNA aptamers which are oligonucleotides that selectively bind a target ligand, but do not catalyze a subsequent chemical reaction.\n\nWith the exception of ribozymes, nucleic acid molecules within cells primarily serve as storage of genetic information due to its ability to form complementary base pairs, which allows for high-fidelity copying and transfer of genetic information. In contrast, nucleic acid molecules are more limited in their catalytic ability, in comparison to protein enzymes, to just three types of interactions: hydrogen bonding, pi stacking, and metal-ion coordination. This is due to the limited number of functional groups of the nucleic acid monomers: while proteins are built from up to twenty different amino acids with various functional groups, nucleic acids are built from just four chemically similar nucleobases. In addition, DNA lacks the 2'-hydroxyl group found in RNA which limits the catalytic competency of deoxyribozymes even in comparison to ribozymes.\n\nIn addition to the inherent inferiority of DNA catalytic activity, the apparent lack of naturally occurring deoxyribozymes may also be due to the primarily double-stranded conformation of DNA in biological systems which would limit its physical flexibility and ability to form tertiary structures, and so would drastically limit the ability of double-stranded DNA to act as a catalyst; though there are a few known instances of biological single-stranded DNA such as multicopy single-stranded DNA (msDNA), certain viral genomes, and the replication fork formed during DNA replication. Further structural differences between DNA and RNA may also play a role in the lack of biological deoxyribozymes, such as the additional methyl group of the DNA base thymidine compared to the RNA base uracil or the tendency of DNA to adopt the B-form helix while RNA tends to adopt the A-form helix. However, it has also been shown that DNA can form structures that RNA cannot, which suggests that, though there are differences in structures that each can form, neither is inherently more or less catalytic due to their possible structural motifs.\n\nThe most abundant class of deoxyribozymes are ribonucleases, which catalyze the cleavage of a ribonucleotide phosphodiester bond through a transesterification reaction, forming a 2'3'-cyclic phosphate terminus and a 5'-hydroxyl terminus.\nRibonuclease deoxyribozymes typically undergo selection as long, single-stranded oligonucleotides which contain a single ribonucleotide base to act as the cleavage site. Once sequenced, this single-stranded \"cis\"-form of the deoxyribozyme can be converted to the two-stranded \"trans\"-form by separating the substrate domain (containing the ribonucleotide cleavage site) and the enzyme domain (containing the catalytic core) into separate strands which can hybridize through two flanking arms consisting of complementary base pairs.\n\nThe first known deoxyribozyme was a ribonuclease, discovered in 1994 by Ronald Breaker while a postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory of Gerald Joyce at the Scripps Research Institute.\nThis deoxyribozyme, later named GR-5,\ncatalyzes the Pb-dependent cleavage of a single ribonucleotide phosphoester at a rate that is more than 100-fold compared to the uncatalyzed reaction. Subsequently, additional RNA-cleaving deoxyribozymes that incorporate different metal cofactors were developed, including the Mg-dependent E2 deoxyribozyme\nand the Ca-dependent Mg5 deoxyribozyme.\nThese first deoxyribozymes were unable to catalyze a full RNA substrate strand, but by incorporating the full RNA substrate strand into the selection process, deoxyribozymes which functioned with substrates consisting of either full RNA or full DNA with a single RNA base were both able to be utilized.\nThe first of these more versatile deoxyribozymes, 8-17 and 10-23, are currently the most widely studied deoxyribozymes. In fact, many subsequently discovered deoxyribozymes were found to contain the same catalytic core motif as 8-17, including the previously discovered Mg5, suggesting that this motif represents the \"simplest solution for the RNA cleavage problem\".\nThe 10-23 DNAzyme contains a 15-nucleotide catalytic core that is flanked by two substrate recognition domains. This DNAzyme cleaves complementary RNAs efficiently in a sequence specific manner between an unpaired purine and a paired pyrimidine. DNAzymes targeting AU or GU vs. GC or AC are more effective. Furthermore, the RNA cleavage rates have been shown to increase after the introduction of intercalators or the substitution of deoxyguanine with deoxyinosine at the junction of the catalytic loop. Specifically, the addition of 2’-O-methyl modifications to the catalytic proved to significantly increase the cleavage rate both in vitro and in vivo.\n\nOther notable deoxyribozyme ribonucleases are those that are highly selective for a certain cofactor. Among this group are the metal selective deoxyribozymes such as Pb-specific 17E,\nUO-specific 39E,\nand Na-specific A43. First crystal structure of a DNAzyme was reported in 2016. 10-23 core based DNAzymes and the respective MNAzymes that catalyse reactions at ambient temperatures were described in 2018 and open doors for use of these nucleic acid based enzymes for many other applications without the need for heating.\n\nThis link and this link describe the DNA molecule 5'-GGAGAACGCGAGGCAAGGCTGGGAGAAATGTGGATCACGATT-3' , which acts as a deoxyribozyme that uses light to repair a thymine dimer, using serotonin as cofactor.\n\nOf particular interest are DNA ligases. These molecules have demonstrated remarkable chemoselectivity in RNA branching reactions. Although each repeating unit in a RNA strand owns a free hydroxyl group, the DNA ligase takes just one of them as a branching starting point. This cannot be done with traditional organic chemistry.\n\nMany other deoxyribozymes have since been developed that catalyze DNA phosphorylation, DNA adenylation, DNA deglycosylation, porphyrin metalation, thymine dimer photoreversion\nand DNA cleavage.\n\nBecause there are no known naturally occurring deoxyribozymes, most known deoxyribozyme sequences have been discovered through a high-throughput \"in vitro\" selection technique, similar to SELEX.\n\"in vitro\" selection utilizes a \"pool\" of a large number of random DNA sequences (typically 10–10 unique strands) that can be screened for a specific catalytic activity. The pool is synthesized through solid phase synthesis such that each strand has two constant regions (primer binding sites for PCR amplification) flanking a random region of a certain length, typically 25–50 bases long. Thus the total number of unique strands, called the sequence space, is 4 where \"N\" denotes the number of bases in the random region. Because 4 ≈ 10, there is no practical reason to choose random regions of less than 25 bases in length, while going above this number of bases means that the total sequence space cannot be surveyed. However, since there are likely many potential candidates for a given catalytic reaction within the sequence space, random regions of 50 and even higher have successfully yielded catalytic deoxyribozymes.\n\nThe pool is first subjected to a selection step, during which the catalytic strands are separated from the non-catalytic strands. The exact separation method will depend on the reaction being catalyzed. As an example, the separation step for ribonucleotide cleavage often utilizes affinity chromatography, in which a biological tag attached to each DNA strand is removed from any catalytically active strands via cleavage of a ribonucleotide base. This allows the catalytic strands to be separated by a column that specifically binds the tag, since the non-active strands will remain bound to the column while the active strands (which no longer possess the tag) flow through. A common set-up for this is a biotin tag with a streptavidin affinity column. Gel electrophoresis based separation can also be used in which the change in molecular weight of strands upon the cleavage reaction is enough to cause a shift in the location of the reactive strands on the gel. After the selection step, the reactive pool is amplified via polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to regenerate and amplify the reactive strands, and the process is repeated until a pool of sufficient reactivity is obtained. Multiple rounds of selection are required because some non-catalytic strands will inevitably make it through any single selection step. Usually 4–10 rounds are required for unambiguous catalytic activity, though more rounds are often necessary for more stringent catalytic conditions. After a sufficient number of rounds, the final pool is sequenced and the individual strands are tested for their catalytic activity. The dynamics of the pool can be described through mathematical modeling\n\n, which shows how oligonucleotides undergo competitive binding with the targets and how the evolutionary outcome can be improved through fine tuning of parameters.\n\nDeoxyribozymes obtained through \"in vitro\" selection will be optimized for the conditions during the selection, such as salt concentration, pH, and the presence of cofactors. Because of this, catalytic activity only in the presence of specific cofactors or other conditions can be achieved using positive selection steps, as well as negative selection steps against other undesired conditions.\n\nA similar method of obtaining new deoxyribozymes is through \"in vitro\" evolution. Though this term is often used interchangeably with \"in vitro\" selection, \"in vitro\" evolution more appropriately refers to a slightly different procedure in which the initial oligonucleotide pool is genetically altered over subsequent rounds through genetic recombination or through point mutations. For point mutations, the pool can be amplified using error-prone PCR to produce many different strands of various random, single mutations. As with \"in vitro\" selection, the evolved strands with increased activity will tend to dominate the pool after multiple selection steps, and once a sufficient catalytic activity is reached, the pool can be sequenced to identify the most active strands.\n\nThe initial pool for \"in vitro\" evolution can be derived from a narrowed subset of sequence space, such as a certain round of an \"in vitro\" selection experiment, which is sometimes also called \"in vitro\" reselection. The initial pool can also be derived from amplification of a single oligonucleotide strand. As an example of the latter, a recent study showed that a functional deoxyribozyme can be selected through \"in vitro\" evolution of a non-catalytic oligonucleotide precursor strand. An arbitrarily chosen DNA fragment derived from the mRNA transcript of bovine serum albumin was evolved through random point mutations over 25 rounds of selection. Through deep sequencing analysis of various pool generations, the evolution of the most catalytic deoxyribozyme strand could be tracked through each subsequent single mutation.\nThis first successful evolution of catalytic DNA from a non-catalytic precursor could provide support for the RNA World hypothesis. In another recent study, an RNA ligase ribozyme was converted into a deoxyribozyme through \"in vitro\" evolution of the inactive deoxyribo-analog of the ribozyme. The new RNA ligase deoxyribozyme contained just twelve point mutations, two of which had no effect on activity, and had a catalytic efficiency of approximately 1/10 of the original ribozyme, though the researches hypothesized that the activity could be further increased through further selection.\nThis first evidence for transfer of function between different nucleic acids could provide support for various pre-RNA World hypotheses.\n\nBecause most deoxyribozymes suffer from product inhibition and thus exhibit single-turnover behavior, it is sometimes argued that deoxyribozymes do not exhibit \"true\" catalytic behavior since they cannot undergo multiple-turnover catalysis like most biological enzymes. However, the general definition of a catalyst requires only that the substance speeds up the rate of a chemical reaction without being consumed by the reaction (i.e. it is not permanently chemically altered and can be recycled). Thus, by this definition, single-turnover deoxyribozymes are indeed catalysts. Furthermore, many endogenous enzymes (both proteins and ribozymes) also exhibit single-turnover behavior, and so the exclusion of deoxyribozymes from the rank of \"catalyst\" simply because it does not feature multiple-turnover behavior seems unjustified.\n\nAlthough RNA enzymes were discovered before DNA enzymes, the latter have some distinct advantages. DNA is more cost-effective, and DNA can be made with longer sequence length and can be made with higher purity in solid-phase synthesis. Several studies have shown the usage of DNAzymes to inhibit influenza A and B virus replication in host cells. DNAzymes have also been shown to inhibit the replication of SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), human rhinovirus 14 and HCV\n\nAsthma is characterized by eosinophil-induced inflammation motivated by a type 2 helper T cell (Th2). By targeting the transcription factor, GATA3, of the Th2 pathway, with DNAzyme it may be possible to negate the inflammation. The safety and efficacy of SB010, a novel 10-23 DNAzyme was evaluated, and found to have the ability to cleave and inactivate GATA3 messenger RNA in phase IIa clinical trials. Treatment with SB010 significantly offset both late and early asthmatic responses after allergen aggravation in male patients with allergic asthma.\nThe transcription factor GATA-3 is also an interesting target, of the DNAzyme topical formulation SB012, for a novel therapeutic strategy in ulcerative colitis (UC). UC is an idiopathic inflammatory bowel diseases defined by chronically relapsing inflammations of the gastrointestinal tract, and characterized by a superficial, continuous mucosal inflammation, which predominantly affects the large intestine. Patients that do not effectively respond to current UC treatment strategies exhibit serious drawbacks one of which may lead to colorectal surgery, and can result in a severely compromised quality of life. Thus, patients with moderate or severe UC may significantly benefit from these new therapeutic alternatives, of which SB012 is in phase I clinical trials. \nAtopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder, in which patients suffer from eczema, often severe pruritus on the affected skin, as well as complications and secondary infections. AD surfaces from an upregulation of Th2-modified immune responses, therefore a novel AD approach using DNAzymes targeting GATA-3 is a plausible treatment option. The topical DNAzyme SB011 is currently in phase II clinical trials.\nDNAzyme research for the treatment of cancer is also underway. The development of a 10-23 DNAzyme that can block the expression of IGF-I (Insulin-like growth factor I, a contributor to normal cell growth as well as tumorigenesis) by targeting its mRNA could be useful for blocking the secretion of IGF-I from prostate storm primary cells ultimately inhibiting prostate tumor development. Additionally, with this treatment it is expected that hepatic metastasis would also be inhibited, via the inhibition of IGF-I in the liver (the major source of serum IGF-I).\n\nDNAzymes have found practical use in metal biosensors. A DNAzyme based biosensor for lead ion was used to detect lead ion in water in St. Paul Public Schools in Minnesota.\n\nChirality is another property that a DNAzyme can exploit. DNA occurs in nature as a right-handed double helix and in asymmetric synthesis a chiral catalyst is a valuable tool in the synthesis of chiral molecules from an achiral source. In one application an artificial DNA catalyst was prepared by attaching a copper ion to it through a spacer. The copper - DNA complex catalysed a Diels-Alder reaction in water between cyclopentadiene and an aza chalcone. The reaction products (endo and exo) were found to be present in an enantiomeric excess of 50%. Later it was found that an enantiomeric excess of 99% could be induced, and that both the rate and the enantioselectivity were related to the DNA sequence.\n\nOther uses of DNA in chemistry are in DNA-templated synthesis, Enantioselective catalysis, DNA nanowires and DNA computing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917479", "title": "John Joseph Murphy", "text": "John Joseph Murphy\n\nJohn Joseph Murphy (September 24, 1922 - December 15, 2010 ) was a businessman and politician, and the 11th mayor of St. John's, Newfoundland, Canada.\n\nBorn the son of John Murphy and Gertrude Wadden in St. John's, Newfoundland, he was educated at Saint Bonaventure's College. He worked for a time as a radio announcer with VOCM, but, following his 1951 marriage to Marjorie Halley, joined Halley and Company, a dry goods wholesale and retail firm.\n\nFollowing the death of his father-in-law, Patrick Halley, in 1956, Murphy became president of the company and expanded its retail chain, The Arcade, to nine stores in the St. John's and Conception Bay South region. As of 1990, only two of the stores were still operating.\n\nMurphy ran unsuccessfully as a Liberal candidate in the 1966 provincial election and again in a by-election in 1970. Elected to St. John's City council in 1973, he became deputy mayor. In 1977, he ran unsuccessfully against incumbent mayor Dorothy Wyatt, but defeated her in 1981. He won by acclamation in 1985, did not run in the 1990 election, but was elected for again in 1993, and retired from city politics in 1997 after losing his bid for re-election as Mayor.\n\nDuring his tenure on council Murphy was successful in restoring downtown residential properties by lobbying federal and provincial governments for home improvement funds. The city also began a housing program which won several national awards. In 1990 Murphy tried to convince the provincial government to expand the city's boundaries to include Mount Pearl, Paradise, Conception Bay South and Wedgewood Park.\n\nOn June 24, 1985, Murphy was appointed a Member of the Order of Canada and in May 2005, Murphy received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, \"honoris causa\" from the Memorial University of Newfoundland.\n"}
{"id": "1917497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917497", "title": "Nuclear weapons debate", "text": "Nuclear weapons debate\n\nThe nuclear weapons debate refers to the controversies surrounding the threat, use and stockpiling of nuclear weapons. Even before the first nuclear weapons had been developed, scientists involved with the Manhattan Project were divided over the use of the weapon. The only time nuclear weapons have been used in warfare was during the final stages of World War II when United States Army Air Forces B-29 Superfortress bombers dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in early August 1945. The role of the bombings in Japan's surrender and the U.S.'s ethical justification for them have been the subject of scholarly and popular debate for decades.\nNuclear disarmament refers both to the act of reducing or eliminating nuclear weapons and to the end state of a nuclear-free world. Proponents of disarmament typically condemn a priori the threat or use of nuclear weapons as immoral and argue that only total disarmament can eliminate the possibility of nuclear war. Critics of nuclear disarmament say that it would undermine deterrence and make conventional wars more likely, more destructive, or both. The debate becomes considerably complex when considering various scenarios for example, total vs partial or unilateral vs multilateral disarmament.\n\nBecause the Manhattan Project was considered to be \"top secret\", there was no public discussion of the use of nuclear arms, and even within the U.S. government, knowledge of the bomb was extremely limited. However, even before the first nuclear weapons had been developed, scientists involved with the Manhattan Project were divided over the use of the weapon.\n\nOn June 2nd 1945, Arthur Compton, leader of the Manhattan Project's Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago (also known as Met Lab) briefed his staff on the latest information from the Interim Committee, who were formulating plans for the use of the atomic bomb to force Japanese capitulation. In response to this briefing, Met Lab's Committee on the Social and Political Implications of the Atomic Bomb, chaired by James Franck, wrote the Franck Report. This report, to which Leo Szilárd and Glenn T. Seaborg also contributed, argued that instead of being used against a city, the first atomic bomb should be \"demonstrated\" to the Japanese on an uninhabited area. This recommendation was not agreed with by the military commanders, the Los Alamos Target Committee (made up of other scientists), or the politicians who had input into the use of the weapon.\n\nThe report also argued that in order to preclude a nuclear arms race and a destabilized world order, the existence of the weapon should be made public, so that a collaborative, international body could come to control atomic power:\"From this point of view a demonstration of the new weapon may best be made before the eyes of representatives of all United Nations, on the desert or a barren island. The best possible atmosphere for the achievement of an international agreement could be achieved if America would be able to say to the world, “You see what weapon we had but did not use. We are ready to renounce its use in the future and to join other nations in working out adequate supervision of the use of this nuclear weapon.” - The Franck Report\n\n70 scientists involved in the Manhattan Project—many of them from Met Lab, represented in part by Leó Szilárd—put forth a petition to President Truman in July of 1945. This petition, known as the Szilárd Petition, urged Truman to use the atomic bomb only if the full terms of surrender were made public and if Japan, in full possession of these facts, still refused to surrender. \"We, the undersigned, respectfully petition: first, that you exercise your power as Commander-in-Chief, to rule that the United States shall not resort to the use of atomic bombs in this war unless the terms which will be imposed upon Japan have been made public in detail and Japan knowing these terms has refused to surrender; second, that in such an event the question whether or not to use atomic bombs be decided by you in the light of the considerations presented in this petition as well as all the other moral responsibilities which are involved.\" - The Szilárd PetitionThe petition also warned Truman to consider the future implications of the decision to use the atomic bomb, including the probability of a rapid nuclear arms race and a decline in global security, and pled with him to prevent such an eventuality if possible.\n\nThe Little Boy atomic bomb was detonated over the Japanese city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945. Exploding with a yield equivalent to 12,500 tonnes of TNT, the blast and thermal wave of the bomb destroyed nearly 50,000 buildings (including the headquarters of the 2nd General Army and Fifth Division) and killed approximately 75,000 people, among them 20,000 Japanese soldiers and 20,000 Koreans. Detonation of the \"Fat Man\" atomic bomb exploded over the Japanese city of Nagasaki three days later on 9 August 1945, destroying 60% of the city and killing approximately 35,000 people, among them 23,200-28,200 Japanese civilian munitions workers and 150 Japanese soldiers. The role of the bombings in Japan's surrender and the U.S.'s ethical justification for them has been the subject of scholarly and popular debate for decades. J. Samuel Walker suggests that \"the controversy over the use of the bomb seems certain to continue\".\n\nAfter the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the world’s nuclear weapons stockpiles grew, and nuclear weapons have been detonated on over two thousand occasions for testing and demonstration purposes. Countries known to have detonated nuclear weapons—and that acknowledge possessing such weapons—are (chronologically): the United States, the Soviet Union (succeeded as a nuclear power by Russia), the United Kingdom, France, the People's Republic of China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea.\n\nIn the early 1980s, following a revival of the nuclear arms race, a popular nuclear disarmament movement emerged. In October 1981 half a million people took to the streets in several cities in Italy, more than 250,000 people protested in Bonn, 250,000 demonstrated in London, and 100,000 marched in Brussels. The largest anti-nuclear protest was held on June 12, 1982, when one million people demonstrated in New York City against nuclear weapons. In October 1983, nearly 3 million people across western Europe protested nuclear missile deployments and demanded an end to the arms race.\n\nUnder the scenario of total multilateral disarmament, there is no possibility of nuclear war. Under scenarios of partial disarmament, there is disagreement as to how the probability of nuclear war would change. Critics of nuclear disarmament say that it would undermine the ability of governments to threaten sufficient retaliation upon an attack to deter aggression against them. Application of game theory to questions of strategic nuclear warfare during the Cold War resulted in the doctrine of mutually assured destruction (MAD), a concept developed, by Robert S. McNamara, among others, in the mid-1960s. The success of MAD in averting nuclear war was theorized to depend upon the “readiness at any time before, during, or after an attack to destroy the adversary as a functioning society.\" Those who believe governments should develop or maintain nuclear-strike capability, usually justify their position with reference to MAD and the Cold War, claiming that a \"nuclear peace\" was the result of both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. possessing mutual second-strike retaliation capability. Since the end of the cold war, theories of deterrence in international relations have been further developed and generalized in the concept of the stability–instability paradox Proponents of disarmament call into question the assumption that political leaders are rational actors who place the protection of their citizens above other considerations, and highlight, as McNamara himself later acknowledged with the benefit of hindsight, the non-rational choices, chance and contingency which played a significant role in averting nuclear war, for example during the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 and the Able Archer 83 crisis of 1983, thus, they argue, evidence trumps theory and deterrence theories cannot be reconciled with the historical record.\n\nKenneth Waltz argues in favor of the continued proliferation of nuclear weapons. In the July 2012 issue of \"Foreign Affairs\" Waltz took issue with the view of most U.S., European, and Israeli, commentators and policymakers that a nuclear-armed Iran would be unacceptable. Instead Waltz argues that it would probably be the best possible outcome, as it would restore stability to the Middle East by balancing Israel's regional monopoly on nuclear weapons. Professor John Mueller of Ohio State University, author of \"Atomic Obsession\" has also dismissed the need to interfere with Iran's nuclear program and expressed that arms control measures are counterproductive. During a 2010 lecture at the University of Missouri, which was broadcast by C-Span, Dr. Mueller has also argued that the threat from nuclear weapons, including that from terrorists, has been exaggerated, both in the popular media, and by officials.\n\nIn contrast, various American government officials, including Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, Sam Nunn, and William Perry. who were in office during the Cold War period, are now advocating the elimination of nuclear weapons in the belief that the doctrine of mutual Soviet-American deterrence is obsolete, and that reliance on nuclear weapons for deterrence is becoming increasingly hazardous and decreasingly effective in the post cold war era A 2011 article in \"The Economist\" argues along similar lines, that risks are more acute in rivalries between relatively new nuclear states that lack the \"security safeguards\" developed by America and the Soviet Union and that additional risks are posed by the emergence of pariah states, such as North Korea (possibly soon to be joined by Iran), armed with nuclear weapons as well as the declared ambition of terrorists to steal, buy or build a nuclear device.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917500", "title": "Instytut Rozbitek", "text": "Instytut Rozbitek\n\nInstytut Rozbitek is a center near Poznań, Poland meant for development of new work in the areas of film, theatre, music and new media. The institute was founded by the Oscar - Winning Polish composer Jan A.P. Kaczmarek in 2004. The Institute consists of the 19th-century castle and surrounding buildings, which are currently under renovation.\n\nIt is a place of workshops. In 2011 and 2012 it was one of the locations of the Master Classes workshops, during the Transatlantyk - Poznan International Film and Music Festival.\n"}
{"id": "1917507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917507", "title": "Houston Knights", "text": "Houston Knights\n\nHouston Knights is an American crime drama television series set in Houston, Texas. The show ran on CBS from March 11, 1987 to June 7, 1988 and had 31 episodes.\n\nThe core of the series is the partnership between two very different cops from two different cultures. Chicago cop Joey LaFiamma, played by Michael Paré, is transferred to Houston after he kills a mobster from a powerful Mafia family and a contract is put out on him. Once there, he is partnered with Levon Lundy, played by Michael Beck, the grandson of a Texas Ranger.\n\nAlthough as different as night and day, and after a rocky beginning (the two engage in a fist-fight) they form a successful partnership and become friends. This is aided to a certain extent by an event where a hitman from Chicago who holds the contract to shoot La Fiamma arrives in Houston and is ultimately killed by Lundy.\n\nDuring the series, it is revealed that both La Fiamma and Lundy have their own personal demons. La Fiamma's Chicago partner had been killed when the partner went into a crime scene while La Fiamma had waited for backup to arrive. Lundy's wife had been killed by an explosion that was intended to kill him.\n\nProducer Jay Bernstein said the show \"goes against the grain of current television thinking. It's an hour-long episode show at a time when half-hour comedy is king. It features two male police officers when family situation stories are hot.\"\n\nBernstein said the leads needed to say what America should be... \"Houston Knights\" was created on a formula that started with Columbia Pictures. They had these two-reelers during the 1930s using two leading men who always fought with each other. There was the same relationship between John Wayne and Randolph Scott in the 1940s in movies like 'Pittsburgh.' This is different for television, but has been used in the movies since the 1930s. These are principled men. They're in the 1980s but with the conservative morals of the 1940s.\"\n\nThe show was renewed for a second season. Beck said his relationship on air with Pare would be \"less abrasive... We used that as a starting-off point, but everyone now feels that coming into living rooms that way, week after week, might grow a little tiring for the viewer. We'll have more of a needling instead of an 'I-hate-your-guts' feel between them. There'll still be a rivalry and animosity there, but not quite so hard-edged.\"\n\nThe theme music for the series was Texan blues-rock style, opening with a steamy saxophone then featuring slide guitar work and a heavy bass line. Dennis McCarthy and George Doering composed the music for the series. Lee Ritenour is also credited as a major contributor to the music featured in the series.\n\nOne of the key features of the show was the car driven by La Fiamma, an ice-blue 289 AC Cobra \"replicar\", credited as being provided by \"North American Fibreglass\". The car was yet another way to demonstrate that La Fiamma didn't \"fit\" in Texas, as most other characters on the show drove pickup trucks (including Lundy).\n\nThe wardrobe for La Fiamma consisted of well-cut and stylish Italian label clothing, another contrast to Lundy, who was always attired in typical Texas \"cowboy\" clothes.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" said the pilot \"s so confused and confusing that it is impossible to tell whether this latest police-detective romp can pull itself together long enough to have a shot at surviving.\"\n\nThe titles of the 31 episodes are listed below, along with their original TV air dates. Although they are listed separately, the first two episodes were originally screened as a movie-length pilot. The first 9 episodes comprised the first season, the remaining 22 episodes formed season two. The first season ranked 34th out of 79 shows with a 15.1/26 rating/share.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917508", "title": "PC-9800 series", "text": "PC-9800 series\n\nThe , commonly shortened to PC-98 or , is a lineup of Japanese 16-bit and 32-bit personal computers manufactured by NEC from 1982 to 2000. The platform established NEC's dominance in the Japanese personal computer market and by 1999, more than 18 million units were sold.\n\nNEC developed mainframes since the 1950s. By 1976, the company had the 4th highest mainframe sales (10.4%) in Japan after IBM (29.6%), Fujitsu (20.1%) and Hitachi (15.8%). NEC did not have a presence in the consumer market, and its subsidiary, New Nippon Electric (later NEC Home Electronics), had limited success with consumer products. However, NEC's Electronic Device Sales Division developed the microprocessor evaluation kit TK-80, which became unexpectedly popular among hobbyists. , a developer of the TK-80, observed the rise in popularity of personal computers at the 1977 West Coast Computer Faire. Computer manufacturers had not developed personal computers because they assumed microprocessors were not suitable for computing as they suffered from a lack of performance and reliability. The division decided to develop a personal computer despite criticism from the Information Processing Group, which developed mainframes, and claimed that they were making toys. The division only had a small distribution network of electronic parts stores, so they asked New Nippon Electric to sell the personal computers through their consumer distribution network.\n\nThe Electronic Device Sales Division launched the PC-8001 in 1979, and it dominated 40% of the Japanese personal computer market in 1981. The vice president of NEC, , stated:\n\nIn April 1981, NEC decided to expand personal computer lines into three groups: New Nippon Electric, Information Processing Group, and Electronic Devices Group, with each specialising in a particular series. New Nippon Electric made 8-bit home computers (PC-6000 series), while Information Processing Group made 16-bit business personal computers and Electronic Devices Group made other personal computers such as the PC-8000, PC-8800, and PC-100 series.\n\nIn the Information Processing Small Systems Division, directed the project and did the product planning. The development team initially planned for the new personal computer to be a small version of the business computer line which originated from the 1973 . , who directed the development of the PC-8001, stated that the personal computer must have Microsoft BASIC, considered compatibility of peripheral devices with previous NEC PCs, and disclosed specifications of its expansion slot. In September 1981, Hamada requested ASCII's Kazuhiko Nishi to rewrite N88-BASIC to run on the Intel 8086 processor, and Nishi replied, saying that he wanted to talk with Bill Gates. Three months later, Nishi rejected Hamada's request because Microsoft was busy with the development of GW-BASIC, and they don't want to produce more variants of Microsoft BASIC. Nishi told him, \"Microsoft is rewriting a BASIC that has the same function with more structured internal code, and it will be sold as the definitive 16-bit version named GW-BASIC. We'll provide a BASIC sooner if you choose the Japanese adoption of GW BASIC.\". Hamada replied, \"As I said, we want a BASIC that is compatible with the previous ones\". They couldn't make an agreement.\n\nHamada couldn't decide which plan they should develop, a small business computer or a personal computer, because the possibilities of Watanabe's plan was uncertain. While they were visiting software companies to collect and research applications for the PC-8001 and PC-8801, Hamada and Watanabe discovered that the consumer market wanted a 16-bit machine compatible with both PCs. Hamada decided to adopt two plans for different markets. In April 1982, the small business personal computer became the , which used a proprietary 16-bit microprocessor. The machine was introduced as a new model of traditional business computers, so it was not notable.\n\nIn February 1982, the software development team started reverse engineering N88-BASIC and designing N88-BASIC(86). After the team finished in March 1982, they started development on the PC-9801 (named \"N-10 Project\"). A PC-9801 prototype was completed at the end of July 1982. The code of N88-BASIC (86) was written completely from scratch, but Nishi pointed out that the bytecode matched Microsoft's. It was unclear if the copyright law could apply to the bytecode. Nishi suggested to Hamada that NEC must have purchased the same amount of Microsoft's product as it corresponded to the license fee, and N88-BASIC(86) must show copyright notification for both Microsoft and NEC. Hamada approved it. The team considered third-party developers to be very important for the market's expansion. They provided 50–100 prototypes and technical information for independent companies without a fee.\n\nIn 1981, the Terminal Units Division of the Information Processing Group also launched the personal computer series , which was branded as the \"personal terminal\". It used an Intel 8086 processor and a µPD7220 display controller. Its architecture was similar to that of the PC-98, but it mostly ran the proprietary operating system \"PTOS\". The series was introduced as an intelligent terminal or a workstation and was distinguished within personal computer lines. For this market, Fujitsu released the in 1981, and IBM Japan released the Multistation 5550 in 1983.\n\nThe first model, the PC-9801, launched in October 1982, and employed an 8086 CPU. It ran at a clock speed of 5 MHz, with two µPD7220 display controllers (one for text, the other for video graphics), and was shipped with 128 KB of RAM that could be expanded to 640 KB. Its 8-color display had a maximum resolution of 640×400 pixels.\n\nWhen the PC-9801 launched in 1982, it was initially priced at 298,000 yen (about US$1,200 in 1982 dollars). This model required an expensive 8-inch floppy disk drive or smaller capacity of 320 KB 5¼-inch floppy drive. The basic system could only display JIS X 0201 characters including numbers, English alphabets, and half-width kana, so most users added an optional kanji ROM board for using a Japanese word processor. Its successor, the PC-9801F employed an 8086-2 CPU, which could selectively run at a speed of either 5 or 8 MHz. The F2 model contained two 640 KB 5¼-inch 2DD (QD) floppy drives, a JIS level 1 kanji (2965 characters) font ROM, and was priced at 398,000 yen (about US$1,700 in 1983). It was positively received by engineers and businesses.\n\nThe Electronic Devices Group launched the PC-100 in October 1983 and attempted to present a GUI and the Apple Lisa. The PC-100 did not sell well due to its time and high cost. Moreover, the marketing competed with the PC-98 of the Information Processing Group, which did not assure distributors. In December 1983, Ouchi decided that NEC would consolidate personal computer business into two divisions: NEC Home Electronics to deal with the 8-bit home computer line, and Nippon Electric's Information Processing Group to deal with the 16-bit personal computer line. The Electronic Device Group passed off their personal computer business to NEC Home Electronics.\n\nFujitsu released the in December 1984. It had an Intel 80186 CPU at 8 MHz and a 1.2 MB 5¼-inch 2HD (HD) floppy drive. The FM-16β failed because it bundled the CP/M-86, not MS-DOS, and was marketed by Fujitsu's Electronic Devices department instead of the Computers department. They modified their policies in mid-1985, but it was too late. In another incident, Fujitsu bundled a business software package with the FM-11 (predecessor to FM-16β) which discouraged users from purchasing third-party software, and forced them to use it for a specific purpose, which caused Fujitsu to fail to expand their platform.\nNEC introduced the PC-9801M2 that had two 5¼-inch 2HD floppy drives against the release of FM-16β. This model couldn't read a 2DD floppy disk. The PC-9801VM used NEC V30 CPU clocked at 10 MHz, and was released in July 1985. The VM2 model shipped with two 5¼-inch 2HD floppy drives and supported both 2DD and 2HD floppy disks. It became the best-selling computer in Japan, with annual sales of 210,000 units.\nNEC permitted software companies to bundle a subset of the MS-DOS 2.11 without a license fee between 1983 and 1987. ASCII and Microsoft allowed it to enter the market and compete with the CP/M-86. NEC also let users buy a self-contained application package. It dominated half of the Japanese personal computer market at the end of 1983. As of March 1984, 700 software packages were available for PC-98. In 1987, NEC announced one million PC-98s were shipped, and about 3,000 software packages were available. Masayoshi Son (a founder of SoftBank) recalled in 1985 that:\n\nNEC took care to maintain compatibility and inheritance. The PC-9801VM could select a clock frequency from 8 and 10 MHz and also offered an optional 8086 card because the V30 had different instruction cycles. The V30 had unique instructions which were not implemented in Intel x86 processors. Some PC-98 applications used them, so the PC-9801VX (1986) was designed to run Intel 80286 and V30 selectively. The PC-9801RA (1988) had an Intel 80386 and a V30. The PC-9801DA (1990) did not have this, but its clock speed was configurable.\n\nNEC focused heavily on financing advertisements and exhibitions, from in the 1970s, to over in 1985.\n\nWhile NEC did not market these specific machines in the West, it sold the NEC APC III, which had similar hardware as early PC-98 models. However, NEC began selling an IBM compatible PC (APC IV) outside Japan in 1986.\n\nToshiba had developed laptop computers since the autumn of 1983, while their desktops were a failure in the Japan PC market. In October 1986, they introduced the which allowed the T3100 to handle Japanese text. NEC did not expect it to become the first successful laptop computer in Japan. In the same month, NEC introduced the PC-98LT laptop computer. This model had poor compatibility with the PC-9801 and could not gain a significant profit. NEC understood, despite difficulties, that the PC-98 needed a new custom chipset to make the motherboard smaller.\n\nIn March 1987, Epson announced the first PC-98 clone desktop computer and named it the PC-286 series. NEC investigated and sued Epson on the claim that its BIOS infringed their copyright. Epson cancelled their PC-286 model 1-4 and released the PC-286 model 0 whose BIOS was made by another team under a clean room design: it did not have a built-in BASIC interpreter. NEC countered that the PC-286 model 0 lacked compatibility with the PC-98. Although it seemed NEC would not be able to win the lawsuit, Epson settled with NEC in November 1987 after considering the damage that would be done to its reputation.\nThe PC-286 model 0 employed an Intel 80286 processor operating at 10 MHz, which was 20% faster than NEC's mainstream model PC-9801VX using the same CPU at 8 MHz. In June 1987, NEC released a 10 MHz version of PC-9801VX (VX01, VX21 and VX41 models). They added a BIOS signature check to their operating systems (Disk versions of BASIC and MS-DOS), to prevent non-NEC machines from booting up; it was commonly called an \"EPSON check\". In September 1987, Epson introduced the PC-286V and the PC-286U, and also released the BASIC Support ROM to add a BASIC interpreter. Epson also bundled the Software Installation Program which was a patch kit to remove the EPSON check. Both machines were received well due to reasonable prices and better compatibility. In 1988, Epson made annual sales of 200,000 units and successfully established PC-98 clones in the Japan PC market.\n\nIn October 1987, Epson released the PC-286L which was a PC-98 compatible laptop before NEC started development. In March 1988, NEC released the PC-9801LV which was a 100% PC-98 compatible laptop PC. It was accomplished by three custom VLSI chips. These chipsets were also used in other desktops such as the PC-9801UV11 and the PC-9801RA.\n\nIn July 1989, Toshiba released the J-3100SS branded as \"DynaBook\", a true laptop computer which was light and battery operable. It made annual sales of 170,000 units. Four months later, NEC released the PC-9801N and branded it as \"98NOTE\". The DynaBook started off well but the 98NOTE exceeded it in 1990.\n\nMicrosoft and other PC manufacturers developed the AX specification in 1987. It allowed IBM PC clones to handle Japanese text by using special video chips, the Japanese keyboard, and software written for it. However, the AX could not break into the Japanese PC market due to its higher cost and less compatible software.\n\nIn the early 1980s, home users chose 8-bit machines rather than 16-bit machines because 16-bit systems were expensive and exclusively for business. By the mid-1980s, the Japanese home computer market was dominated by NEC PC-88, Fujitsu FM-7 and Sharp X1. In this era, a simulation game was the most popular genre for PC-98, which took advantage of higher clock speed and larger memory reservers. \"Daisenryaku\" and \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" were particularly popular and they established PC-98 as a PC game platform.\n\nTowards the end of the 1980s, the Japanese PC game platform slowly shifted from PC-88 to PC-98, as X68000 and FM TOWNS also had a niche market. In the 1990s, many computer role-playing games were developed for PC-98 or imported from other platforms, such as \"Brandish\", \"Dungeon Master\" and the \"Alone in the Dark\" series. The higher display resolution and higher storage capacity allowed better graphics, but drawing animations on the PC-98 was hard because it took a long time to draw the screen. As a result of this limitation, adult dating sims and visual novels appeared as a revival of 1980's adventure games and gained popularity, such as \"Dōkyūsei\" and \"YU-NO\". After the PC-98 declined, many Japanese PC game developers shifted the game platform to video game consoles, except for eroge distributed by computer stores.\n\nIn the 1980s and early 1990s, NEC dominated the Japanese domestic PC market with more than 60% of the PCs sold as PC-9801 or PC-8801. In 1990, IBM Japan introduced the DOS/V operating system which enabled displaying Japanese text on standard IBM PC/AT VGA adapters. Other Japanese PC manufacturers joined the PC Open Architecture Developer Group (OADG) organized by IBM Japan and Microsoft. In October 1992, Compaq released a DOS/V computer priced at compared to the lowest priced PC-98 at , causing a price war in the Japanese PC market. In 1993, Toshiba introduced DOS/V computers, Epson founded Epson Direct Corporation to sell DOS/V computers, and Fujitsu started selling DOS/V computers branded as FMV.\n\nIn November 1992, NEC introduced a mid-range Windows PC, the PC-9821 which contained Intel 386SX processor, a CD-ROM drive, 16-bit PCM audio playback, MS-DOS 5.0A and Windows 3.0A. In January 1993, PC-98 desktops were expanded into three lines, a high performance Windows machine named \"98MATE\", a low-priced MS-DOS machine named \"98FELLOW\", and an all-in-one desktop named \"98MULTi\". PC-98s were still popular among Japanese users because they had many Japanese applications.\n\nNEC managed to adopt industrial standards and reduce costs. From 1993 to 1995, the PC-98 adopted 72-pin SIMMs, 3.5-inch 1.44 MB floppy format, IDE storage drives, 640×480 pixels DOS screen mode, 2D GUI acceleration GPUs, Windows Sound System, PCI, and PCMCIA card slots. NEC had outsourced manufacturing of motherboards to Taiwanese companies such as ECS and GVC (acquired by Lite-On).\n\nAside from other Japanese domestic platforms which had disappeared, Windows 95 overturned the dominance of the PC-98. The difference in the architecture was not only ineffective for platform-independent environments but also increasing development resources to adopt them. In 1997, NEC introduced the PC98-NX series as a main personal computer line that conformed to the PC System Design Guide and were IBM PC compatible. The PC-9801's last successor was the Celeron-based PC-9821Ra43 (with a clock frequency of 433 MHz, using a 440FX chipset-based motherboard design from 1998), which appeared in 2000. NEC announced that the PC-98 would be discontinued in 2003. 18.3 million of PC-98s shipped by the end of shipments in March 2004. The last version of Windows to support PC-98 was Windows 2000.\n\nNEC kept much of its hardware and platform proprietary or under license, so while it had a virtual monopoly in the Japanese market, later IBM PC clones with DOS/V and Windows from companies such as Hitachi and Panasonic that did not require such license fees (like Epson's 98 clones) flooded the market and displaced NEC.\n\nThe PC-98 is different from the IBM PC in many ways; for instance, it uses its own 16-bit C-bus () instead of the ISA bus; BIOS, I/O port addressing, memory management, and graphics output are also different. However, localized MS-DOS, Unix, OS/2, or Windows will still run on PC-9801s.\n\nAll PC-98 desktop models use a 100-pin expansion slot. It has 16 data and 24 address lines. The bus frequency is fixed at 5, 8 or 10 MHz. PC-H98 and PC-9821A Series use a proprietary 32-bit Local Bus slot and existing 16-bit slot. The 16-bit expansion bus was also called C-bus (Compatible Bus). The PC-9821Xf introduced in 1994 shipped with C-bus slots and PCI slots on the motherboard, replacing Local Bus.\n\nMany PC-9801 models could increase system memory by installing expansion boards, daughterboards, or proprietary SIMMs. They were limited to 14.6 MB, due to 24-bit address pins and reserve space. EMS memory boards for C-bus were also available. The PC-9821Af introduced in 1993 shipped with standard 72-pin SIMMs, broke 14.6 MB barrier and supported memory up to 79.6 MB. Later desktop models shipped with standard SIMM or DIMM memory.\n\nThe PC-98XA (1985) and its successors, called \"high-resolution machine\" or simply \"hi-reso machine\", were capable of 768 KB base memory, but I/O port and memory addressing was quite different from normal PC-98.\n\nEarly PC-9801 models supported 1232 KB 8-inch floppy drives and/or 640 KB 5¼-inch floppy drives. Each used different IRQ lines and I/O ports. Later models supported both interfaces. 5¼-inch and 3½-inch HD floppy disks used the same logical format and data rate with 1232 KB 8-inch floppy disks. They became a non-standard format while formats brought by IBM PC/AT and PS/2 became the industry standard.\n\nThe PC-98 supports up to four floppy drives. If the system is booted from a floppy drive, MS-DOS assigns letters to all of the floppy drives before considering hard drives; it does the opposite if it is booted from a hard drive. If the OS was installed on the hard drive, MS-DOS would assign the hard drive as drive \"A:\" and the floppy as drive \"B:\"; this would cause incompatibility among Windows PC applications, although it can be resolved with the SETUP command in Windows 95 by turning on the \"/AT\" switch to assign the Windows system drive to the standard \"C:\" drive.\n\nThe PC-98 used several different interfaces of hard drives. Early models used Shugart Associates System Interface (SASI) or ST506, and later models used SCSI or IDE drives.\n\nA standard PC-98 has two µPD7220 display controllers (a master and a slave) with 12 KB main memory and 256 KB of video RAM respectively. The master display controller handles font ROM, displaying JIS X 0201 (7x13 pixels) and JIS X 0208 (15x16 pixels) characters. Each character had a variety of display options, including bits for secret, blinking, reverse, underline and three intensity bits (grayscale or RGB). The other display controller is set to slave mode and connected to 256 KB of planar video memory, allowing it to display 640 x 400 pixel graphics with 16 colors out of a palette of 4096. The video RAM is divided into pages (2 pages x 4 planes x 32 KB in 640x400 16 colour mode), and the programmer can control which page is written to and which page is output.\n\nThe high-resolution machines (PC-98XA, XL, and PC-H98) offered 1120x750 display mode, and aimed for tasks such as CAD and word processing.\n\nThe PC-9801U (optional) and VM introduced a custom chipset GRCG (\"GRaphic CharGer\") to access several planar memory in parallel. The PC-9801VX introduced a blitter chip called EGC (\"Enhanced Graphic Charger\"). It had raster operations and bit shifting.\n\nIn 1993, NEC introduced a 2D Windows accelerator card for PC-98 called the \"Window Accelerator Board\" and employed S3's 86C928. Video cards for C-bus, local bus and PCI were also available from other manufacturers. DirectX 7.0a was the last official supported version for PC-98.\n\nThe first generation of PC-9801s (the E, F, and M models) only had an internal buzzer. PC-9801U2 and later models could change the sound frequency by controlling the programmable interval timer, like the PC speaker. The PC-8801mkIISR home computer, introduced in 1985, had a Yamaha YM2203 sound chip, an Atari joystick port, and BASIC sound commands. The optional PC-9801-26 sound card was based around these features, although in some PC-9801 models it is integrated with the motherboard. It was replaced by the PC-9801-26K to support the 80286 CPU. This became the most common sound card for playing in-game music on the PC-98.\n\nIt was succeeded by the PC-9801-73 (1991) and PC-9801-86 (1993) sound card, which employed the YM2608 and added support for 16-bit stereo sampling. Due to lack of DMA support and poor sound drivers, it often had issues in Windows and created popping and clicking sounds. The PC-9801-118 sound card and later PC-9821 models use the Crystal Semiconductor's Windows Sound System audio codec to resolve this, but the newer sound chip was not compatible with the older conventional sound cards.\n\nRoland released the MPU-401 MIDI interface card for PC-98 computers. Creative Labs released a C-bus card for Sound Blaster 16.\n\nThe first PC-9801 model had the same keyboard layout as the PC-8801's except it added conversion key XFER and 5 function keys. Later models had some minor changes: NFER, 15 function keys, LED status indicators, and replacing CAPS and alternate action switches.\n\nThe bus mouse and interface card kit was introduced for PC-98 in 1983. The PC-9801F3 and later models had a mouse interface. Although the PS/2 port became popular among IBM PC clones in the 1990s, the bus mouse had been used until the end of PC-98.\n\nSeiko Epson manufactured PC-9801 clones between 1987 and 1995, as well as compatible peripherals.\n\nAST Research Japan released the DualStation 386 SX/16 in 1990 which had both PC-9801 and IBM PC compatibilities, but it failed because of poor marketing.\n\nThe PC-98 was primarily used for business and industry in Japan from 1980s to mid-1990s. As of September 1992, out of 16,000 PC-98 software applications, 60% of them were corporate business software applications (including CAD), 10% of them were operating systems and development tools, 10% of them were educational software applications, with the rest being a mix of graphic design, networking, word processing, and games. The Nikkei Personal Computing journal published in 1993 reported that most home users purchased PCs to complete office work at home. The publisher sent a questionnaire to 2000 readers, and out of 1227 readers who answered, 82% of users used it for word processing, 72% for spreadsheets, 47% as a database, and 43% for games.\n\nIchitaro, a Japanese word processor for the PC-98 and considered one of its killer applications, was released in 1985 and ported to other machines in 1987. A Japanese version of Lotus 1-2-3 was also ported to PC-98 first in 1986. 1 million copies of all Ichitaro versions and 500,000 copies of Lotus 1-2-3 were shipped by 1991.\n\nPC-98 software generally ran from program and data disks (Disk 0 & 1 or A & B). For example, Ichitaro's system disk contained a runtime version of MS-DOS, main programs, an input method editor (ATOK), and its dictionary file. It used the entire space of a 1.2 MB floppy disk. In 1980s, most machines only had two floppy drives because HDDs were an expensive additional feature for PCs.\n\nNEC provided a variety of operating systems including the CP/M-86, Concurrent CP/M, MS-DOS, PC-UX, OS/2, and Windows (discontinued after Windows 2000). Localized versions of NetWare and FreeBSD were also available.\n\nThe PC-98 had many game titles designed for it, many of which made creative use of the system's limitations (as it was originally designed as a business machine) to great commercial success. Despite having hardware specifications inferior to the FM Towns and X68000, the massive install base and steady flow of game titles (in particular \"dōjin\" style dating sims and RPGs, as well as early games of \"Policenauts\", \"\",\n\"Koutetsu no Kishi\", \"\", \"MechWarrior\", \"Rusty\", \"\", \"Shūjin e no Pert-em-Hru\", \"Corpse Party\", \"Slayers\", \"J.B. Harold Murder Club\", and \"Touhou Project\") kept it as the favored platform for PC game developers in Japan until the rise of the DOS/V clones.\n\nPartial list of PC-98 models sold in the Japanese market (no 1992-2000 models, no notebook models, etc.).\n\nA journalist explained in 1988 how NEC \"established the nation of Japanese personal computers\":\n\n\nWestern computers lacked Japanese support due to its display resolution and speed, so they could not get into the Japanese PC market until the DOS/V and faster computers came out; for example, IBM Japan sold the IBM 5550 instead of the IBM PC. Akihiko Hyodo, a programmer who developed the text editor VZ Editor, said two advantage that the PC-98 had were its kanji character memory and non-interlaced monitor. Both provided users with a more comfortable Japanese environment. A senior vice president of Otsuka Shokai (a computer distributor for enterprises) recalled that \"early users such as Kao already had office automation with the PC-8000, but it lacked speed and kanji support. Then, the PC-9800 was released, and it was perfect, so distributors and users immediately switched to it.\".\n\nShunzo Hamada of NEC thought the biggest reason for the success of PC-98 was that NEC could get software companies to cooperate. He said, \"Third-party suppliers of Japanese PCs had already grown up to a certain extent. However, it was not because they were organized. They were born by themselves, and hardware manufacturers didn't touch them. When we developed the PC-9800 series, we changed our method to make a conscious effort to grow them up\".\n\nIchiran Kou, a computer consultant, pointed out that IBM influenced NEC's strategy. Since 1982, NEC had four personal computer lines, and they covered a wide price range, similar to IBM's mainframe business. However, NEC's computers had poor backward compatibility and as such was criticized by users and software developers. After reforming personal computer lines in 1983, NEC began expanding the PC-9801 series and its number of models exceeded its competitors.\n\nNEC encouraged third-party developers as IBM did for the IBM PC. The basic hardware of PC-98 was also similar to the IBM PC, though it was not IBM compatible. Kou guessed that NEC avoided releasing an IBM compatible PC because the company was proud of developing an original mainframe.\n\nYasuhiro Uchida, a literature professor, wrote an essay titled \"Users chose the most \"playable\" PC\". He felt the PC-98 was an \"ordinary\" 16-bit personal computer, but it had plenty of games because it did not deny the \"playability\". He theorized that Fujitsu did not consider the 16-bit personal computer as a game platform, and considered IBM JX handling games to be of minor importance, which made personal computers less attractive. He concluded that the actual value of personal computers must be found by not sellers but consumers.\n\nA writer of the ASCII magazine wrote that the Japanese input method and the Japanese video game industry were significantly developed in the PC-98 era. Because the PC-98 had a kanji character ROM, Japanese applications were developed for it, which influenced Japanese input methods being developed for them; the two built off of each other. Software companies that developed games for the PC-98 immediately expanded the video game business on the Famicom platform. He believed most programmers learned computer programming on the PC-98 at that time.\n\nIn the late 1980s, competitors criticized NEC monopolizing the market. Takayoshi Shina, a founder of Sord, said, \"The Japanese PC market is suffocating because of one company's dominance. There is no freedom. This is why its prices are 3-4 times as expensive as America's. To fulfil the same international price as America's, we really need the era of clone computers.\". A software company also complained that \"although there are few excellent engineers in Japan, the more incompatible machines appear, the more development resources are divided.\".\n\nContrary to the IBM PC and the Apple II, every Japanese personal computer had a short lifespan; NEC released a new model of the PC-98 every year. When the PC-9801VX01/21/41 models brought a new BASIC interpreter which supported the Enhanced Graphic Charger (EGC) chipset, most commercial software did not use it as they were written in C. Many developers did not follow it because they wanted to make their software less dependent on the specific platform. A software developer said, \"Using the special one (EGC) goes against the trend. I don't want to use it if new machines come out so frequently.\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917509", "title": "Clematis texensis", "text": "Clematis texensis\n\nClematis texensis, commonly called scarlet leather flower, is a climbing vine in the buttercup family (Ranunculaceae). It is native to the United States, where it is endemic to the Edwards Plateau of Texas. Its natural habitat is on rocky limestone cliffs and streamsides. \n\nThis is an herbaceous and slightly woody vine that can climb to nine feet. It produces bell-shaped flowers bloom on new growth in the spring and summer. The flower petals are thick and leather-like with scarlet-colored sepals. After the flower blooms a feathery ball of plumed seeds will be displayed.\nThis \"Clematis\" is a very hardy and drought tolerant and when planted in sunny conditions flowers may persist until the first frost.\n\nCrosses with other clematis varieties have yielded varieties showier than the species, such as \"Duchess of Albany\", \"Princess Diana\", \"Gravetye Beauty\", \"Sir Trevor Lawrence\", and \"Etoile Rose\", in colors from pink to dark scarlet red. \"Clematis texensis\" and its crosses tend to have four petals; blossoms resemble lily-flowered tulips, and sometimes display as downward-facing bells.\nChop dried stems can be brewed into a tea that treats headaches and migraines. Historically, a tincture could be made to function as a counter-irritant that, when applied to the skin's surface, produces an irritation that counteracts an underlying discomfort.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917522", "title": "Yttrium orthovanadate", "text": "Yttrium orthovanadate\n\nYttrium orthovanadate (YVO) is a transparent crystal. Undoped YVO is also used to make efficient high-power polarizing prisms similar to Glan–Taylor prisms.\n\nThere are two principal applications for doped Yttrium orthovanadate:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917531", "title": "American Airlines Flight 1", "text": "American Airlines Flight 1\n\nAmerican Airlines Flight 1 was a domestic, scheduled passenger flight from New York International (Idlewild) Airport (now John F. Kennedy International Airport) to Los Angeles International Airport. On March 1, 1962, the Boeing 707 rolled over and crashed into Jamaica Bay two minutes after takeoff, killing all 87 passengers and eight crew members aboard. A Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) investigation determined that a manufacturing defect in the autopilot system led to an uncommanded rudder control system input, causing the accident. A number of notable people died in the crash. It was the fifth fatal Boeing 707 accident and, at the time, the deadliest.\n\nThe aircraft was a Boeing 707-123B, registered as N7506A. It was delivered to American Airlines on February 12, 1959. At the time of the crash, it had accumulated 8,147 flight hours. Its last periodic inspection had occurred on January 18, 1962, at 7,922 hours of air time. The flight crew consisted of Captain James Heist, 56; First Officer Michael Barna Jr, 35; Second Officer Robert Pecor, 32; and Flight Engineer Robert Cain, 32.\n\nThe aircraft received instructions to taxi to Runway 31L at 9:54 AM EST, and clearance to proceed to Los Angeles non-stop under instrument flight rules (IFR) at 10:02 AM EST. Flight 1 became airborne at 10:07 AM EST. Following American Airlines procedures and Departure Control instructions, the aircraft initiated a left turn to a heading of 290. In the course of the turn, at 1,600 feet, the aircraft banked too sharply, flipped past 90 degrees, and began an upside-down, nose-first descent in a nearly vertical dive.\n\nFlight 1 crashed into Pumpkin Patch Channel, Jamaica Bay, at 10:08:49, while angled at 78 degrees and on a magnetic heading of 300 degrees. Passengers aboard a Mohawk Airlines plane bound for Albany that took off immediately after Flight 1 watched the plane plunge into the bay. The jet exploded upon impact, a tall splash of brackish water and black smoke erupted from the site, and the scattered debris and fuel caught fire. Long Island residents described hearing explosions that shook the foundations of nearby houses, though no one on the ground is known to have witnessed the airliner hitting the swamp. However, a few men at Naval Air Station New York/Floyd Bennett Field saw the massive column of water rising above the hangars, and one guard—at his post on the Cross Bay Bridge—saw the aircraft roll over.\n\nThe aircraft crashed into a remote area of marshland on Jamaica Bay used as a wildlife sanctuary. Upwards of 300 policemen and fire fighters, including 125 detectives attending a narcotics seminar at the Police Academy, as well as Coast Guard helicopters, were mobilized to the crash site within half an hour of the crash for rescue operations, only to find there were no survivors. The three-alarm fire was under control by 10:50 AM EST, by which point only wreckage remained. Low tides aided search personnel in their attempts to recover bodies from the downed aircraft. Only a few bodies remained intact.\n\nThe Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) received notification of the accident at 10:10 AM EST and immediately sent investigators to Jamaica Bay to conduct an investigation. The flight recorder was found on March 9 and sent to Washington, D.C., for analysis. Public hearings were held at the International Hotel in New York on March 20–23, 1962.\n\nInvestigators were unable to recover sufficient body tissue to determine whether the crew had been physically incapacitated at the time of the crash. Toxicology reports conclusively ruled out toxic gases, alcohol, and drugs as possible cause for the crash. Milton Helpern, Chief Medical Examiner, decided that having relatives attempt visual identification of the crash victims was inhumane and ordered dental and fingerprint comparisons. In early July, the CAB announced their investigators believed that a cotter pin and a bolt missing from the rudder mechanism might have caused Flight 1's crash. Though considered to be a \"mechanic's oversight\", the CAB nevertheless wired all 707 operators to inform them of the potential danger of the assembly.\n\nIn January 1963, the CAB released a Civil Aeronautics Board Aircraft Accident Report stating that the \"most likely abnormality\" to have caused the crash was a short circuit caused by wires in the automatic piloting system that had been damaged in the manufacturing process. It stated that the probable cause of the accident was \"...rudder control system malfunction producing yaw, sideslip, and roll leading to a loss of control from which recovery was not effective\" and concluded \"that a rudder servo malfunction due to shorted wires is the most likely abnormality to have produced the accident.\"\n\nCAB inspectors had inspected units at a Bendix Corporation plant in Teterboro, New Jersey, and discovered workers using tweezers to bind up bundles of wires, thereby damaging them. The Bendix Corporation issued denials, stating that the units underwent 61 inspections during manufacturing, in addition to inspections during installation and maintenance work, and insisted that had the insulation on the wires been breached at some point, it would have surely been detected and the unit replaced.\n\nSomewhat unusually, American Airlines continued using the \"Flight 1\" designator after the accident; AA1 is still used for a daily morning departure from New York-JFK to Los Angeles using the Airbus A321T.\n\nA number of well-known persons were aboard Flight 1 when it went down in Jamaica Bay. They included:\n\nThe crash serves as a central plot element in the \"Mad Men\" season 2 episode \"Flight 1\" (episode 2). Pete Campbell's father Andrew is one of the passengers killed (in real life, this served as a way to write off Pete's father after his actor Christopher Allport was killed in an avalanche in January 2008). Later in the episode, accounts man Herman \"Duck\" Phillips is so determined to sign American as an account and so convinced of Pete's ambition, that he recruits Pete specifically to woo American, while insisting the firm cut all ties with competitor Mohawk. The ploy costs the firm all its airline business, as they drop Mohawk only to be spurned by American.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917544", "title": "National Marine Aquarium, Plymouth", "text": "National Marine Aquarium, Plymouth\n\nThe National Marine Aquarium is a marine aquarium located in the city of Plymouth, England, in Sutton Harbour, next to the Barbican and fishmarket. It was opened in May 1998, with charitable aims of research, education and conservation. It is the largest aquarium in the United Kingdom. It is run by the Ocean Conservation Trust\n\nIt is a member of the British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums (BIAZA).\n\n\"The Aquarium is divided into four main zones: Plymouth Sound, British Coasts, Atlantic Ocean and Blue Planet. A visit to the aquarium goes from the local waters of Plymouth to the Great Barrier Reef of Australia.\"\n\nThis zone displays marine life found around Plymouth. It concentrates on the surprising range of habitats found around the City. There are 17 tanks (which include a rock pool and a wave tank) are home to approximately 80 species of fish and invertebrates; including local sharks and rays.\n\nThe second exhibit is the largest native offering in Britain. As visitors move on to the coasts of Britain, they can discover the potential of renewable energy from our Oceans. This zone houses life-size models of whales and dolphins located around Britain. The large Eddystone tank displays an array of creatures found on the Eddystone reef, 19 km south of Plymouth. Through a huge window, visitors can see conger eels, mullet(fish), pollack, bream, and smooth hound sharks swimming in the open water, flatfish and rays hiding on the seabed, and lobsters and crabs hiding in the rocks.\n\nThis zone contains various areas within, including 'Ocean Drifters', 'Ocean Lab', 'Observation Deck', 'Lost At Sea' and 'Ocean Predators' The 'Ocean Drifters' jelly exhibit was opened in 2009, and includes moon jellies, Japanese sea nettles, and Upside-down jellyfish, housed in round tanks to prevent damage to their delicate bodies. The other areas take you around the largest tank of the aquarium housing 1,000 Caribbean fish including nurse shark, lemon shark, sand tiger shark, zebra shark, sandbar shark, barracuda, southern stingray, tarpon, turtle. The tank volume is 2.5 million litres. This exhibit was updated at the end of 2009, with the largest ever shipment of live fish into the UK, from Barbados, West Indies. It was updated again in 2015/16 with the addition of Lemon and sand-tiger sharks.\n\nThe Laboratory allows you to see what life is like working behind the scenes at the aquarium. Biologists can be seen taking care of the younger generation of species being bred and cared for before entering the main exhibits. This process is the most important moment for the species, as they grow and are placed into an ecosystems suited to their natural lifestyle\nThis zone includes 'Biozone' and the 'Great Barrier Reef'. Biozone showcases the amazing biodiversity found in the world's oceans and displays longhorn cowfish, lionfish, Giant Pacific Octopus Enteroctopus dofleini and seahorses. The Great Barrier Reef exhibit is the grand finale of the visit. The second largest tank at 700,000 litres, and by far the most colourful, the reef is home to over 70 species of fish. It also was the home of the loggerhead sea turtle, Snorkel, who was with the aquarium from 1990 to 2016.\n\nThe National Marine Aquarium is a dedicated charity that drives marine conservation through engagement. They led a project to sink frigate in 2004 to create an artificial reef in Whitsand Bay, Cornwall. It is the lead partner in Just Add HO, a schools learning centre. Which also offers outreach programs based around the National Curriculum teaching 30,000 school children each year. Through National Marine Aquarium grants smaller charities can further help with driving marine conservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917559", "title": "Aagesen", "text": "Aagesen\n\nAagesen (or Aggesen) is a Danish and Norwegian surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1917592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917592", "title": "MetroJet (American airline)", "text": "MetroJet (American airline)\n\nMetroJet was a no-frills airline brand operated as a wholly owned division of US Airways from 1998 until 2001.\n\nAfter the conclusion of painstaking labor negotiations in 1997, US Airways sought to head off burgeoning competition from low-cost carriers in its strongest region, the U.S. Northeast. Competitor Southwest Airlines was encroaching from its base in the west as were Delta Express and AirTran Airways from the South. Like them it would offer a single class of service, operate a single type of aircraft, which consisted of the Boeing 737-200, and fly a limited network, based at the airline's Baltimore hub. Like similar projects from traditional carriers, including Continental Lite, Delta Express, and Shuttle by United, it would participate in the parent airline's frequent flyer program and other systems.\n\nMetroJet was launched on June 1, 1998, flying from its base at Baltimore-Washington International Airport to Cleveland, Ohio, Providence, Rhode Island, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and Manchester, New Hampshire. It began with five dedicated aircraft, repainted in a distinctive livery with a red and gray fuselage, and the traditional blue tail with the US Airways logo. It was slated for a measured expansion over the next two years that eventually included flights from Washington Dulles International Airport and several point-to-point operations, with an emphasis on connecting Northeastern passengers to destinations in Florida.\n\nMetroJet operations did not improve US Airways's loss-making record. Many of MetroJet's passengers were cannibalized from other US Airways operations, such as its major presence at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. Its aircraft were among the oldest and least fuel efficient in US Airways's fleet, and like its parent its labor costs were among the highest in the industry. Meanwhile, it faced cutthroat competition with Southwest, its main competitor at BWI. In an October 28, 2001 interview with \"Business Travel News\", CEO David Siegel revealed that MetroJet's average cost per available seat mile was 8 cents, compared to 6 cents for Southwest and 10 cents for mainline US Airways.\n\nThe September 11, 2001 attacks gave US Airways a rationale to invoke a force majeure clause in its labor contracts to close the operation, announced on September 24. It represented, too, US Airways's surrender of Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport as a hub, which it had inherited from an earlier merger with Piedmont Airlines. Once the largest carrier there, its number of scheduled flights had fallen by 60 percent by the time the last MetroJet 737 was retired in December.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917593", "title": "Walt Whitman High School (Maryland)", "text": "Walt Whitman High School (Maryland)\n\nWalt Whitman High School is a public high school in Bethesda, Maryland, United States. The school is named in honor of the American poet, Walt Whitman. The school serves grades 9-12 for the Montgomery County Public Schools.\n\nThe school opened in the fall of 1962 with 1,418 students. Designed by local architectural firm McLeod, Ferrara & Ensign, it was built on 17 levels, with a center courtyard and a geodesic dome for its gymnasium. A Ford Foundation grant underwrote the design and construction of the dome.\n\nIn 1981, a 1,176-seat auditorium was added to the school. In 1992, the geodesic dome and all other buildings except for the auditorium were demolished and construction began on a new school building, which opened in fall 1993.\n\nIn 2019, Whitman was the top ranked high school in Maryland and #93 nationwide by the \"US News and World Report\".\n\nWhitman fields sports teams in fall, winter, and spring seasons. The school competes as the Vikings and it is part of Montgomery County public school sports. The football field is named after long time principal Jerome Marco. The school has won 11 soccer state championships, including two back to back in 2018-2019.\n. The girl's basketball team won the state title in 2016, which is their second overall.\n\nThe \"Black & White\" is the student-run newspaper. The newspaper was inducted into the National Scholastic Press Association Hall of Fame in 1991. Whitman is also notable for having the country's only student-run psychology journal. The jorunal is distributed to over 1,000 psych teachers around the country.\n\nThe school has an active FIRST Robotics Competition team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917602", "title": "Local Area Transport", "text": "Local Area Transport\n\nLocal Area Transport (LAT) is a non-routable (Data Link Layer) networking technology developed by Digital Equipment Corporation to provide connection between the DECserver 90, 100, 200, 300, 500, 700 and DECserver 900 terminal servers and Digital's VAX and Alpha and MIPS host computers via Ethernet, giving communication between those hosts and serial devices such as video terminals and printers. The protocol itself was designed in such a manner as to maximize packet efficiency over Ethernet by bundling multiple characters from multiple ports into a single packet for Ethernet transport (Mann, ). Over time, other host implementations of the LAT protocol appeared allowing communications to a wide range of Unix and other non-Digital operating systems using the LAT protocol.\n\nIn 1984, the first implementation of the LAT protocol connected a terminal server to a VMS VAX-Cluster in Spit Brook Road, Nashua, NH. By \"virtualizing\" the terminal port at the host end, a very large number of plug-and-play VT100-class terminals could connect to each host computer system. Additionally, a single physical terminal could connect via multiple sessions to multiple hosts simultaneously. Future generations of terminal servers included both LAT and TELNET protocols, one of the earliest protocols created to run on a burgeoning TCP/IP based Internet. Additionally, the ability to create reverse direction pathways from users to non-traditional RS232 devices (i.e. UNIX Host TTYS1 operator ports) created an entirely new market for Terminal Servers, now known as console servers in the mid to late 1990s, year 2000 and beyond through today.\n\nLAT and VMS drove the initial surge of adoption of \"thick-wire\" Ethernet by the computer industry. By 1986, terminal server networks accounted for 10% of Digital's $10 billion revenue. These early Ethernet LANs scaled using Ethernet bridges (another DEC invention) as well as DECnet routers. Subsequently, Cisco routers, which implemented TCP-IP and DECnet, emerged as a global connection between these packet-based Ethernet LANs.\n\nOver time, when terminals became less popular, terminal emulators had a built-in LAT client.\n\n\nMost Linux distributions offer a client and server \"lat\" package, that can easily be installed via a package manager.\nThis allows e.g. to access a local area network server while being connected to a corporate VPN network that would otherwise block local TCP/IP traffic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917605", "title": "Kaffir lily", "text": "Kaffir lily\n\nKaffir lily is a common name which may refer to the following ornamental plants:\n\n"}
{"id": "1917608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917608", "title": "Vaclav Zizler", "text": "Vaclav Zizler\n\nVaclav Zizler, Ph.D., Dr.Sc. (born 8 March 1943), is a Czech mathematics professor specializing in Banach space theory and non-linear spaces. As of 2006, Dr. Zizler holds the position of Professor Emeritus at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Formerly he was at the Mathematical Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences where he was Head of Research. In 2001 the Czech Minister of Education named his \"Functional Analysis and Infinite Dimensional Geometry\" the university textbook of the year. In 2008 he was, \"for his excellent lifelong work in mathematical analysis and selfless activities in favour of the Czech mathematics\", awarded a laureate medal by the Czech Mathematical Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917615", "title": "PAS-22", "text": "PAS-22\n\nPAS-22, previously known as AsiaSat 3 and then HGS-1, was a geosynchronous communications satellite, which was salvaged from an unusable geosynchronous transfer orbit by means of the Moon's gravity.\n\nAsiaSat 3 was launched by AsiaSat Ltd of Hong Kong to provide communications and television services in Asia by a Proton booster on 24 December 1997, destined for an orbit slot at 105.5° E. However, a failure of the Blok DM3 fourth stage left it stranded in a highly inclined (51°) and elliptical orbit, although still fully functional. It was declared a total loss by its insurers. The satellite was transferred to Hughes Global Services, Inc., which was then a subsidiary of Hughes Space and Communications Company, with an agreement to share any profits with the insurers.\n\nEdward Belbruno and Rex Ridenoure heard about the problem and proposed a 3–5 month low-energy transfer trajectory that would swing past the Moon and leave the satellite in geostationary orbit around the Earth. Hughes had no ability to track the satellite at such a distance and considered this trajectory concept unworkable. Instead, Hughes used an Apollo-style free-return trajectory that required only a few days to complete, a trajectory designed and subsequently patented by Hughes Chief Technologist Jerry Salvatore. This maneuver removed only 40° of orbital inclination and left the satellite in a geosynchronous orbit, whereas the Belbruno maneuver would have removed all 51° of inclination and left it in geostationary orbit.\n\nAlthough Hughes did not end up using the low-energy transfer trajectory, the insight to use a lunar swingby was key to the spacecraft rescue. According to Cesar Ocampo, Hughes had not considered this option until it was contacted by Ridenoure, although the Hughes engineers involved in the lunar flyby operations have stated that they were already working on the lunar swingby mission design before being contacted by him.\n\nUsing on-board propellant and lunar gravity, the orbit's apogee was gradually increased with several manoeuvres at perigee until it flew by the Moon at a distance of 6,200 km from its surface in May 1998, becoming in a sense the first commercial lunar spacecraft. Another lunar fly-by was performed later that month at a distance of 34,300 km to further improve the orbital inclination.\n\nThese operations consumed most of the satellite's propellant, but still much less than it would take to remove the inclination without the Moon-assist manoeuvres. With the remaining fuel, the satellite could be controlled as a geosynchronous satellite, with half the life of a normal satellite – a huge gain, considering that it had been declared a total loss. The satellite was then maneuvered to geosynchronous orbit at 150–154° W.\n\nOnce the satellite was in a stable orbit, it was commanded to release its solar panels, which had been stowed during takeoff and maneuvering. Of the satellite's two solar panels, only one released, and it became apparent that a tether was not operating correctly on board, which engineers attributed to heating and cooling cycles due to the satellite operating outside its design range while traveling to its final orbit. In 1999, HGS-1 was acquired by PanAmSat, renamed to PAS 22, and moved to 60° W. It was deactivated in July 2002 and moved to a graveyard orbit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917616", "title": "Bob Watkins", "text": "Bob Watkins\n\nRobert Cecil Watkins (born March 12, 1948) is a former pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Houston Astros in 1969. He was selected by the Astros in the 1966 amateur draft.\n"}
{"id": "1917618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917618", "title": "Heroes (confectionery)", "text": "Heroes (confectionery)\n\nHeroes (previously Miniature Heroes) is a brand of boxed/tinned confectionery currently manufactured by Cadbury. Introduced in September 1999, they were a response to rival Mars' \"Celebrations\". The product contains miniature versions of various Cadbury chocolate bars and is known as \"Favourites\" in Australia and New Zealand. Heroes are most popular around holidays, such as Christmas, Halloween and Easter.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917621", "title": "Liquor store", "text": "Liquor store\n\nA liquor store is a retail shop that predominantly sells prepackaged alcoholic beverages — typically in bottles — intended to be consumed off the store's premises. Depending on region and local idiom, they may also be called bottle store, off licence, bottle shop (in United Kingdom, Ireland, and New Zealand), package store (in much of the United States), party store (in Michigan), ABC store, state store, or other similar terms. Many jurisdictions have an alcohol monopoly.\n\nIn South Africa, Namibia and Zimbabwe, these stores are generally called bottle stores.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Ireland the corresponding term is off licence, which refers to the fact that alcohol may be bought on the licensed premises, but must be consumed \"off\" the premises. Almost all supermarkets and groceries, and many petrol stations, have an off-licence.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the \"off-licence\" status of a shop could once be used as a device to circumvent restrictive trading laws, particularly those concerning Sunday trading. Depending on local by-laws, shops might be either required to close at 12:00 once a week, or else not be allowed to trade in the evening. Shops with an off-licence made their hours similar to those of public houses, opening during lunch hours and from early evening to the mandatory closing time, usually 22:30 or 23:00. The Sunday Trading Act 1994, however, somewhat altered this situation. \nDuring the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, all pubs closed during the lockdown from 20 March 2020. However, on 25 March, off-licences were added to the list of essential businesses allowed to stay open, also enabling pubs and brewery taprooms with licences to sell beer for home consumption to offer takeaway sales and home deliveries.\n\n\n\nIn Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain all supermarkets, convenience stores, and gas stations may sell beer, wine, and liquors only if they possess a licence. The consumption of alcohol on premises is not forbidden, but is frowned upon. In the Netherlands supermarkets are allowed to sell alcoholic beverages up to 15% ABV, hard liquor is only sold from specialized bottle shops.\n\nThe Twenty-first Amendment of the United States Constitution allows states to regulate the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages. State regulations vary widely. The majority of the U.S. states have laws specifying which alcoholic beverages must be sold in specialty liquor stores and which may be sold in other venues.\n\nIn seventeen alcoholic beverage control (ABC) states, the specialty liquor stores are owned and operated exclusively by the state government, where liquor stores often sell only spirits or sometimes sell spirits and wine but not beer. ABC-run stores may be called ABC stores or state stores.\n\nIn Alabama, Connecticut, Georgia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Texas, liquor stores are also known as \"package stores\"; locally in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and areas bordering these states the term \"pack\" or \"packie\" is used as well, because purchased liquor must be packaged in sealed bottles or other containers when it is taken from the store.\n\nIn four states (Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, and Utah), only low-point beer may be sold in supermarkets or gas stations. In Utah, stores not owned and operated by the state are known as Package Agencies. These are liquor outlets operated by private individuals or corporate entities under contract with the state for the purpose of selling packaged liquor, wine and beer to the general public for off-premise consumption. Package Agencies are located in communities too small to warrant the establishment of a state store, and in resorts and hotels where the outlets exist primarily for the benefit of their guests. In Minnesota there are both private liquor stores or city-owned municipal liquor stores. They are sometimes known as \"Off Sales\", meaning purchase for off-premises consumption, similar to \"Off-licence\" in the UK. A bar or tavern is an \"On Sale\" where liquor is consumed on-premises. Municipal liquor stores are sometimes called \"Munis.\"\n\nIn some states (e.g., California, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, and Wisconsin), all alcoholic beverages can be sold practically anywhere, including drug stores and gas stations.\nIn Washington state, all beer and wine are available in specialty stores, grocery stores, convenience stores, department stores, taverns, and other locations. All spirits are available in stores greater than 10,000 sq ft (such as grocery stores, big box liquor chains, and drug stores). There are two exceptions to the 10,000 sq ft rule: 1) former state and contract liquor stores that reopened under private ownership may also sell spirits provided they have been issued a new license from the state; and 2) cities, mostly in rural areas, that do not have a store that meets the minimum floor space may be allowed to sell spirits if the Liquor Control Board deems that there are no sufficient establishments within the trade area.\n\nIn Los Angeles and most parts of Southern California, Angelenos often colloquially refer \"liquor store\" to any Convenience store, corner store, minimart, or similar small local neighborhood grocery store.\n\nAll provinces except Alberta have government-owned retail liquor monopolies. Alberta has only privately owned liquor stores. British Columbia and Saskatchewan have both private and government-owned retail liquor outlets.\n\nDue to federal law, all provincial liquor boards must act as the first importer of alcoholic beverages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917623", "title": "Bombing of Chongqing", "text": "Bombing of Chongqing\n\nThe bombing of Chongqing (, ), from 18 February 1938 to 23 August 1943, was part of a terror bombing operation conducted by the Imperial Japanese Army Air Service and Imperial Japanese Navy Air Service on the Chinese provisional capital of Chongqing, authorized by the Imperial General Headquarters.\n\nA total of 268 air raids were conducted against Chongqing, with more than 11,500, mainly incendiary, bombs dropped. The targets were usually residential areas, business areas, schools, hospitals and other non-military targets.\nThese bombings were probably aimed at cowing the Chinese government, or as part of the planned Sichuan invasion.\n\nIn the first two days of the campaign, the raids of May 1939 killed more than five thousand Chinese civilians.\n\nTwo months later, after tens of thousands of deaths, in retaliation for firebombing, the United States embargoed the export of airplane parts to Japan, thus imposing its first economic sanction against that nation.\n\nOn 5 June 1941, the Japanese flew more than 20 sorties, bombing the city for three hours. About 4,000 residents who hid in a tunnel were asphyxiated.\n\nThe majority of the air raids conducted against Chongqing were made with squadrons of medium-heavy bombers composed of Mitsubishi G3Ms, known under Allied codename as \"Nells\", Ki-21s \"Sallys\", Fiat BR.20 Cicognas (\"Ruths\"), and Kawasaki Ki-48 \"Lilys\", although towards the end of the war, Mitsubishi G4M \"Bettys\", Ki-67 \"Peggys\", Nakajima Ki-49 \"Helens\", and Yokosuka P1Y \"Frances\" were also deployed. Due to severe attrition of aircraft and veteran pilots of the Chinese Air Force initially equipped at the outbreak of the air war in 1937 with largely US-made aircraft and training (and training with Italian air force instructors), the Chinese Air Force increasingly relied on the Soviet Union's assistance during the retreat and defense of Wuhan in 1938 and further retreat and defense of Chongqing in 1939–41; Chinese pilots flying primarily the Polikarpov I-16 and I-15 series of fighter-pursuit aircraft in defense of Chongqing and Chengdu. The introduction of the Zero-sen fighter plane in 1940, the most advanced production fighter aircraft at the time, ensured the Japanese practically total air supremacy.\n\nFollowing the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, the United States declared war on Japan, reinvigorating support for China against Japanese imperialist aggressions, and an immediate Sino-US cooperation with planning of the Doolittle Raid against Japan in April 1942. By August 1943, modern interceptor aircraft possessing greater speed and firepower, ground-based radar equipment, and better aircrew training supplied by the US and other Allied nations left the ROCAF in a much better position to fight back and, along with the diversion of Japanese aerial assets in support of the war in the Pacific, helped curtail further Japanese bombing sorties. The last recorded air raid of the campaign took place on 19 December 1944.\n\nThree-thousand tons of bombs were dropped on the city between 1939 and 1942. According to photographer Carl Mydans, the spring 1941 bombings were at the time \"the most destructive shelling ever made on a city\", although terror bombing grew rapidly during the Second World War: by comparison 2,300 tons of bombs were dropped by Allied bombers on Berlin in a single night during the Battle of Berlin. A total of 268 air raids were conducted against Chongqing.\n\nIn March 2006, 40 Chinese who were wounded or lost family members during the bombings sued the Japanese government, demanding 10,000,000 yen (628,973 yuan) each, and asked for apologies. \"By filing a lawsuit, we want the Japanese people to know about Chongqing bombings,\" said a victim.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917626", "title": "Clivia miniata", "text": "Clivia miniata\n\nClivia miniata, the Natal lily, bush lily, or Kaffir lily, is a species of flowering plant in the genus \"Clivia\" of the family Amaryllidaceae, native to woodland habitats in South Africa (Eastern Cape, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal provinces) as well as in Swaziland. Given suitable conditions it grows into large clumps and is surprisingly water wise. It is also reportedly naturalized in Mexico. It is a popular plant for shady areas and is commonly seen growing in older established suburbs in most Australian states. It is also popular in New Zealand, Japan, China and the USA, particularly California.\n\nIt grows to a height of about , and flowers are red, orange or yellow, sometimes with a faint, but very sweet perfume. It is sometimes known in cultivation as \"Kaffir lily\" (a term considered offensive in South Africa). The same name is also applied to the genus \"Hesperantha\".\n\nIt contains small amounts of lycorine, making it poisonous.\n\nThe Latin specific epithet \"miniata\" means “cinnabar red”.\n\nWith a minimum temperature of , in temperate regions \"C. miniata\" is normally cultivated as a houseplant. Like its relative \"C. nobilis\" it has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit, along with the variety \"C. miniata\" var. \"citrina\" (confirmed 2017). In warmer sites, it can grow outdoors and is used in landscapes for its attractive evergreen foliage and showy flowers. This clump-forming plant spreads via rhizomes and is particularly suited for shady areas.\n\nCultivars include \"Clivia miniata\" ‘Kirstenbosch Splendour’, bred by Graham Duncan, which illustrates the cover of the Kirstenbosch centenary book (2013).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917632", "title": "Chris von Wangenheim", "text": "Chris von Wangenheim\n\nChristoph von Wangenheim (21 February 1942 – 9 March 1981) was a German fashion photographer of the late 1960s through the early 1980s.\n\nWangenheim was born in Berlin, during the Second World War, the son of Konrad Freiherr von Wangenheim, an aristocratic German Cavalry officer who became a well-known horse rider at the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin, winning a Gold Medal in Team Eventing. In 1944, while serving on the Eastern Front, his father was taken prisoner and held in a POW camp located in the Soviet Union. He remained imprisoned for almost ten years and was found hanged days before his intended release.\n\nAfter studying architecture for a period of time, Wagenheim decided to pursue his interest in photography. In 1965, he moved to New York City where he worked as a photographer's assistant for David Thorpe and James Moore until 1967. He started his own studio the following year and began working for the American edition of \"Harper's Bazaar\", and for the Italian edition of \"Harper's Bazaar\" in 1970. \n\nAmerican \"Vogue\" became his primary outlet in 1972, but he also worked for its German, French and Italian editions, as well as for \"Esquire\", \"Playboy\", \"Interview\", and \"Viva\" magazines. Wangenheim is also well known for his advertisements for Christian Dior, Calvin Klein, and Revlon.\n\nSupermodel Gia Carangi did her first major fashion shoot with him in October 1978. He took the notorious photographs of Carangi standing naked behind a chain-link fence. Carangi became one of Wangenheim's favorite models and worked with him on several fashion photographs throughout her career.\n\nOn 9 March 1981, Wangenheim was killed in a single car crash while on holiday in Saint Martin. At the time of his death, he was in the process of divorcing the former model Regine Jaffry, with whom he had one child.\n\nOn September 15, 2015, Rizzoli published a book on Wangenheim's work and life by Roger Padilha and Mauricio Padilha entitled \",\" with a foreword by the photographer Steven Klein.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917633", "title": "Robbie Rist", "text": "Robbie Rist\n\nRobert Anthony Rist (born April 4, 1964) is an \nAmerican actor, voice actor, singer, and musician. He is known for playing Cousin Oliver in \"The Brady Bunch\" and Martin in \"Grady.\" Rist is also known for voicing assorted characters in television shows, games and movies, including Stuffy, the overly-proud stuffed dragon in \"Doc McStuffins,\" Whiz in \"Kidd Video,\" Star in \"Balto,\" Maroda in \"Final Fantasy X,\" Choji Akimichi in \"Naruto,\" and Michelangelo in the 1990 film \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\". Additionally, he and director Anthony C. Ferrante provided music for the \"Sharknado\" film and the theme song for the \"Sharknado\" franchise.\n\nAs a child, Rist played Cousin Oliver in the final six episodes of \"The Brady Bunch\". With the regular children all getting older, his inclusion was intended to reintroduce a cute younger child to the series. However, the plan became moot as the network had opted to not renew the series before his debut. This gave rise to the term \"Cousin Oliver Syndrome\", also known as \"add-a-kid\". Oliver uttered the final line of the final episode: \"Me! Cousin Oliver! / Gosh it was only a suggestion;\" but the character and Rist were subsequently omitted from later original-cast revivals of the series.\n\nAfter \"The Brady Bunch\" he co-starred in the Saturday morning comedy \"Big John, Little John\" as Little John. He portrayed Glendon Farrell on the David Hartman vehicle \"Lucas Tanner\", Tommy in the series premiere for the short-lived CBS drama series \"Bronk\", and Martin in the short-lived \"Sanford and Son\" spin-off \"Grady\" in 1975, and in 1976 and 1977 played Ted Baxter's son David on \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\", along with three episodes of \"The Bionic Woman\". In 1980, Rist played \"Dr. Zee\" on \"Galactica 1980\". He made four guest appearances on \"CHiPs\" and the short-lived CBS series \"Whiz Kids\", and also played Booger in a failed \"Revenge of the Nerds\" TV pilot. In 1986, Rist had a notable supporting role as Milo in the action film, \"Iron Eagle\" which was a box-office hit despite being critically panned.\n\nAs of 2006, Rist was acting, working with music and also working in film production. Rist produced a horror/comedy film, \"Stump The Band\", directed by William Holmes and JoJo Hendrickson.\n\nIn 2013, he portrayed Robbie the Bus Driver in the camp horror film \"Sharknado\". Rist said in an interview that his friend Anthony C. Ferrante came upon the film's poster at the American Film Market and became enthusiastic about the concept. When Ferrante said that he had been approached to direct the film, Rist insisted that Ferrante take the job, and that if he did, that he should have a part in it. He also mentioned that \"Sharknado\" was his very first red carpet premiere.\n\nAs an adult, Rist has worked as a voice actor, such as in the \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" film series (as the voice of Michaelangelo); from 1984 to 1986, he starred in the Saturday morning cartoon \"Kidd Video\", playing the character Whiz both in live-action music videos and animated sequences. He was the voice of Star, an mauve-and-cream Siberian Husky, in the animated 1995 Universal Studios film \"Balto\", and to date, this is his first and only role in a full-length animated film. He was also the voice of Aaron in the PC game \"Star Warped\". An episode of \"\" titled \"Baby Doll\" contained a character called Cousin Spunky that was intended to boost sagging ratings of the fictional \"Baby Doll\" sitcom, a clear reference to Cousin Oliver (Rist lent his voice to the episode, but did not play Cousin Spunky; his character was an adult).\n\nRist also voices characters Choji Akimichi from \"Naruto\", and Bud Bison from \"Mega Man Star Force\".\n\nRist is currently the voice of Stuffy, Doc's overly proud stuffed dragon, in Disney Junior's hit animated series \"Doc McStuffins\".\n\nRecently, he voiced Griffin in \"Terminator Salvation\". He also provided additional voices in \"Final Fantasy XIII\", as well as reprising his role as Michelangelo in a fan-made movie about Casey Jones.\n\nRist voiced the reincarnation of Mondo Gecko in \"TMNT 2012\".\n\nIn 2014 he appeared as the voice of an alien in the James Rolfe film \"\".\n\nRist is also a musician and producer. He has performed as the lead singer, guitarist, bassist and/or drummer for several Los Angeles rock bands, including Wonderboy, The Andersons, Cockeyed Ghost, Nice Guy Eddie, and Steve Barton and the Oblivion Click. The list of west coast pop bands Rist has performed with numbers in the hundreds. He divides his time between film and music production, performing with Los Angeles alt-country band KingsizeMaybe and rock band Jeff Caudill & The Goodtimes Band (with Jeff Caudill of Orange County punk band Gameface and Michael \"Popeye\" Vogelsang of Orange County punk band Farside). Rist has also produced a number of records for bands, including Suzy & Los Quattro, Backline, Ginger Britt and the Mighty, Jeff Caudill, Steve Barton and the Oblivion Click, Nice Guy Eddie, Kingsizemaybe and The Mockers. Rist produced the album \"Automatic Toaster\" for The Rubinoos and played drums on that album. He currently is the drummer for the rock formation Your Favorite Trainwreck.\n\nRist and director Anthony C. Ferrante provided the music for the \"Sharknado\" film, initially writing about six songs for the first film. Rist and Ferrante would provide music for the sequel \"Sharknado 2\" as the band Quint, and perform its theme song \"(The Ballad of) Sharknado\", which had originally appeared in the first film but few in the initial audience noticed it. Quint was named after the character in \"Jaws\" and served as their band's name for future work on the franchise, including the song \"Crash\" in \"Sharknado 3\". They also released an EP called \"Great White Skies\" with several of the theme song's variants.\n\nRist and Don Frankel's power-pop group Sundial Symphony recorded two of Paul Levinson's songs -- \"Merri Goes Round\" and \"Looking for Sunsets (In the Early Morning)\" -- which were released by Big Stir Records in 2019.\n\nIn October 2016 and April 2019, Rist was seen promoting \"The Brady Bunch\" television series on the MeTV television network.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917635", "title": "Flying Tiger Line Flight 739", "text": "Flying Tiger Line Flight 739\n\nFlying Tiger Line Flight 739 was a Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation propliner chartered by the United States military that disappeared on March 16, 1962, over the Western Pacific Ocean. The aircraft was transporting 93 U.S. soldiers and 3 South Vietnamese from Travis Air Force Base, California to Saigon, Vietnam. After refueling at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, the Super Constellation was en route to Clark Air Base in the Philippines when it disappeared. All 107 aboard were declared missing and presumed dead.\n\nThe airliner's disappearance prompted one of the largest air and sea searches in the history of the Pacific. Aircraft and surface ships from four branches of the U.S. military searched more than during the course of eight days. A civilian tanker observed what appeared to be an in-flight explosion believed to be the missing Super Constellation, though no trace of wreckage or debris was ever recovered. The Civil Aeronautics Board determined that, based on the tanker's observations, Flight 739 probably exploded in-flight, though an exact cause could not be determined without examining the remnants of the aircraft. To date, this remains the worst aviation accident involving the Lockheed Constellation series.\n\nThe aircraft was a 5-year-old Lockheed L-1049H Super Constellation with 17,224 airframe hours. It carried 11 American civilian crew members and 96 military passengers. The flight was operated by the Flying Tiger Line as Military Air Transport Service (MATS) Charter flight 739.\n\nThe Super Constellation carried 93 Ranger-trained Army communications specialists en route to South Vietnam. Their orders were to relieve soldiers in Saigon who had been training Vietnamese troops to fight Viet Cong guerrillas. Also on board were three members of the Vietnamese military. The flight crew consisted of eleven civilians based out of California, including seven men. The pilot was Captain Gregory P. Thomas.\n\nThe flight originated from Travis Air Force Base, California, and was destined for Saigon. There were four planned refueling stops: Honolulu, Hawaii; Wake Island; Guam; and Clark Air Base, Philippines. The flight arrived at Guam at 11:14 GMT after being delayed for minor maintenance on engines numbers 1 and 3 at Honolulu, and later at Wake Island. The aircraft departed from Guam at 12:57 GMT with an estimated time of arrival at the Philippines at 19:16 GMT. The Super Constellation carried nine hours' worth of fuel for the eight-hour flight of .\n\nEighty minutes after departure, at 14:22 GMT, the pilot radioed a routine message and gave his position as being west of Guam at coordinates (). The aircraft was expected to reach at 15:30. At that time, the Guam IFSS experienced temporary communication difficulties with heavy radio static. At 15:39 the Guam radio operator attempted to contact the flight for a position report but was unable to establish contact. The aircraft was not seen or heard from again.\n\nThe Clark Field Rescue Coordinating Center declared the aircraft missing the morning of March 16, 1962. Navy officials reported that they believed that the aircraft had crashed closer to Guam than the Philippines. At the time of the disappearance, the weather was clear and the sea calm. The Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, and Marines ordered aircraft and ships to the area.\n\nThe first day of searching continued overnight. During the first two days of the search, vessels crisscrossed of ocean. Secretary of the Army Elvis Stahr told newspapers that \"[w]e have not given up hope that it will be found and that those aboard are safe,\" and that a \"maximum effort\" was being made. After four days of searching, Major General Theodore R. Milton of the 13th Air Force told newspapers that although the chance of finding survivors was doubtful, every effort would be made \"as long as there is any hope at all.\"\n\nSearch efforts included aircraft from Guam, Clark Field, the US 7th Fleet, and the Air Force at Okinawa. Additionally surface ships and aircraft from numerous U.S. bases in the western Pacific contributed to the search efforts.\n\nAfter eight days, the search was called off. The search, which was at the time one of the largest to ever take place in the Pacific, had covered more than of ocean.\n\nFlight 739 was one of two Flying Tiger Line flights with military connections that were destroyed under similar circumstances on the same day. This led both airline officials and the media to offer suggestions of sabotage and conspiracy.\n\nBoth Flight 739 and the other aircraft, an L-1049 Super Constellation, departed from Travis Air Force Base at around 09:45 PST on Wednesday, March 14, 1962, and both encountered difficulties several hours later. The other aircraft was carrying \"secret military cargo\" when it crashed in the Aleutian Islands and caught fire.\n\nFlying Tiger Lines released a statement outlining some possible reasons for the two occurrences, including sabotage of either or both aircraft, and kidnapping of Flight 739 and its passengers. The airline also said that these were merely \"wild guesses\" and that there was no evidence to support either theory.\n\nA Liberian tanker, the SS \"T L Linzen\", reported seeing a bright light in the sky near the aircraft's expected position about 90 minutes after the last radio contact. U.S. military officials described it as being a \"bright light strong enough to light a ship's decks\". It was reported that the tanker observed a flash of light approximately west of Guam, followed immediately by two red lights falling to the ocean at different speeds.\n\nA Civil Aeronautics Board investigation determined that witnesses aboard the tanker also observed what appeared to be vapor trails, and numerous crewmen observed the two fireballs fall into the ocean. The tanker proceeded to the location where the fireballs had been observed to impact the ocean but was unable to find any trace of the falling objects during their six-hour search. A spokesman at the rescue effort headquarters in Guam said that as time passed with no sign of the aircraft, \"more credence is given to the possibility that the tanker may have seen the missing aircraft explode in flight.\"\n\nOfficials with the Flying Tiger Line said that their earlier theories of sabotage would be bolstered were the investigation to reveal that an explosion had occurred. The executive vice president of operations said that experts considered it impossible for explosions to occur on the Super-Constellation in the course of normal operation. Additionally he claimed that there was nothing powerful enough aboard the aircraft to completely blow it apart, and that \"something violent must have happened.\"\n\nThe Civil Aeronautics Board determined that, given the observations of the tanker crew, the flight most likely exploded in midair. As no part of the wreckage was ever found, the CAB was unable to establish a determination of cause. The accident report concluded:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917639", "title": "Desná (Kamenice)", "text": "Desná (Kamenice)\n\nDesná (; ) is a short river in the Czech Republic. It is 2.3 km long and is a left tributary of the Kamenice, to which it enters in Tanvald.\n\nIt originates in the Jizera Mountains and has two tributaries, Bílá Desná and Černá Desná (the \"White Desna\" and the \"Black Desna\").\n\nDesná is a left - hand tributary of the Kamenice River in the Jablonec nad Nisou District in the Liberec Region. The length of the stream is 2.3 km. The catchment area is 50.75 km2. \n\nThe river has an old Slavic name mentioned as early as 1577. The word \"Desna\" was in Old Czech significance \"right\", in this case, the right tributary of another river - the former inhabitants proceeded normally up rivers from the lowlands to the mountains, and so all flows, considered today for the left hand, were from their perspective right hand and vice versa.\n"}
{"id": "1917645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917645", "title": "Ioannis Palaiokrassas", "text": "Ioannis Palaiokrassas\n\nIoannis Palaiokrassas (; born 27 March 1934 in Athens) is a Greek politician.\n\nHe is a former Minister for Finance and a European Commissioner in the Delors Commission. On 14 July 1992 Palaiokrassas's car was the objective of a rocket attack in Central Athens. The attack missed its target, but killed a passer-by.\n"}
{"id": "1917648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917648", "title": "AGL", "text": "AGL\n\nAGL may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917668", "title": "Longtown, Cumbria", "text": "Longtown, Cumbria\n\nLongtown is a small town in northern Cumbria, England, just south of the Anglo-Scottish border. Its sheep market was at the centre of the 2001 United Kingdom foot-and-mouth crisis. Just south-west of Longtown is Arthuret Church, dedicated to St Michael and All Angels.\n\nIt is in the parish of Arthuret and on the River Esk. Longtown is to the north of Carlisle and to the east of Dumfries.\n\nHistorically in Cumberland, nearby was the Battle of Arfderydd in 573. The Battle of Solway Moss was fought nearby in 1542.\n\nLongtown is the location of the largest sheep markets in England. The first animal to be found infected with foot-and-mouth disease in the 2001 crisis had been purchased at Longtown Market. While at the market it spread the infection to other animals. The size of the Longtown Sheep Market meant that the disease had spread right across the country in a very short time. Longtown became the centre for control of the disease in south western Scotland and North West England.\n\nLongtown is in the parliamentary constituency of Penrith and the Border. Neil Hudson was elected its Conservative Member of Parliament at the 2019 General Election, replacing Rory Stewart.\n\nBefore Brexit for the European Parliament residents in Longtown vote to elect MEP's for the North West England constituency.\n\nFor Local Government purposes it is in the \"Longtown + The Border Ward\" of Carlisle City Council and the \"Longtown Division\" of Cumbria County Council.\n\nLongtown has its own Parish Council; \"Arthuret Parish Council\".\n\nLongtown has one primary school with around 190 pupils. Most secondary school pupils travel to William Howard School, Brampton, or Carlisle. Though up until 2008 Longtown had its own secondary school, Lochinvar School.\n\nIn April 2014 Carlisle City Council rejected a planning application for a two million gallon slurry lagoon at Scaurbank Wood, to the north east of Longtown. The planned slurry lagoon was said to be the most objected to plan in the City Council's history, with more than 1,400 letters or e-mails of objection.\n\nLochinvar coalfield was discovered in the 1950s by the National Coal Board and was subject to drilling but never mined. Recently an Australian firm (New Age Exploration) has been exploring the coalfield for coking coal to produce steel. The company is exploring as far north as Evertown near Canonbie, and as far south as Longtown.\n\nDuring the 1930s, there was a recognition of a need to provide secure storage for munitions across the United Kingdom. The proposal was to create three Central Ammunition Depots (CAD): one in the south (Monkton Farleigh, Wiltshire); one in the Midlands (Nesscliffe, Shropshire); and one in the north.\n\nWhile the other two sites were sat above easily hewn limestone, Longtown is located above granite, which meant that it took longer to create and only came into operations late in the Second World War. The site was chosen as it used to be part of HM Factory, Gretna, that stretched to Eastriggs over the border in Scotland, one of the biggest makers of explosives during the First World War. The township of Gretna was established to house the workers of this establishment.\n\nToday, DMC (Defence Munitions Centre) Longtown is the only one of the three CADs to remain in operation and is among the largest defence munitions sites in Western Europe. Currently, Longtown and Eastriggs are two separate sites under joint management. In November 2013 the MoD announced that the operational capacity of MoD Longtown would be reduced and a substantial area of the site would be given over to commercial use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917669", "title": "Sparklehorse", "text": "Sparklehorse\n\nSparklehorse was an American indie rock band from Richmond, Virginia, led by singer and multi-instrumentalist Mark Linkous. Sparklehorse was active from 1995 until Linkous' 2010 death. Prior to forming Sparklehorse, Linkous fronted local bands Johnson Family and Salt Chunk Mary. Only one song, \"Someday I Will Treat You Good,\" survived from these earlier bands to be played by Sparklehorse. Linkous stated that he ultimately chose Sparklehorse for a name because the two words sounded good together and it could loosely be used as a metaphor for a motorcycle. At its inception, members of Sparklehorse included Paul Watson (banjo, coronet, lap steel and electric guitar), Scott Minor (drums, chord organ, banjo), Johnny Hott (Wurlitzer organ, percussion, backing vocals), and Scott Fitzsimmons (standup bass).\n\nSparklehorse's first album, \"Vivadixiesubmarinetransmissionplot\" (1995), produced by Cracker frontman David Lowery (musician) who is credited as \"David Charles\" on the record, was a modest college radio success. In 1996, while touring Europe with Radiohead shortly after the album's release, Mark Linkous consumed a combination of anti-depressants, valium, alcohol, and heroin in a London hotel room. Unconscious and with his legs pinned beneath him for almost fourteen hours, the resulting potassium build-up caused his heart to stop for several minutes after his body was lifted up. The ensuing surgery almost caused him to lose the use of both legs and as a result he needed to use a wheelchair for six months and he required dialysis for acute kidney failure.\n\"Good Morning Spider\" (1998) was recorded following this incident. Critics have conjectured that Linkous's brush with death inspired the sombre tone of the album, though Linkous stated that much of the material on \"GMS\" had already been written. One song that did result from it is \"St. Mary\", which is dedicated to the nurses at the eponymous hospital in Paddington where Linkous recuperated.\n\nIn 1999 Sparklehorse performed at the Horseshoe Tavern in Toronto. 2001 saw the release of \"It's a Wonderful Life\", featuring appearances by Tom Waits, PJ Harvey, Bob Rupe, Nina Persson and Dave Fridmann. Whereas much of \"Vivadixie...\" and \"Spider\" were recorded solely by Linkous on his Virginia farm, the new album was a more collaborative work. Linkous expressed his satisfaction with the overall sound of \"It's a Wonderful Life\", which was engineered by Joel Hamilton, while also claiming that he would have preferred to include more experimental and instrumental material.\n\nOn September 25, 2006, Sparklehorse released their fourth album, \"Dreamt for Light Years in the Belly of a Mountain\", collaborating with Danger Mouse, Christian Fennesz, and Steven Drozd. This album featured the radio release \"Don't Take My Sunshine Away\" and a remastered version of \"Shade And Honey\", which Linkous originally wrote for Alessandro Nivola to sing in the 2003 movie Laurel Canyon, as well as a virtually unchanged re-release of \"Morning Hollow,\" the bonus track from \"It's a Wonderful Life\".\n\nIn 2008, Sparklehorse recorded a cover of the song \"Jack's Obsession,\" from \"Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas\" for the official compilation album \"Nightmare Revisited\". \n\nIn 2009, Sparklehorse teamed up with Danger Mouse and David Lynch in the project \"\". Corliss et al. (2010) describe Dark Night of the Soulas “spooky, beautiful, (and)… bittersweet…considering Linkous’ untimely death.”\n\nIn 2009, Linkous teamed up with electronic ambient-music artist Christian Fennesz to create In the Fishtank 15, a wafting album EP of experimentation and dreamy atmospherics. The last four live shows, Linkous did together with Fennesz during a European tour that was held during October 2009.\n\nLinkous died by suicide in Knoxville, Tennessee, on March 6, 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn March 2020, Spin (magazine) stated that Linkous was more respected by his peers, such as PJ Harvey, Nina Persson and Tom Waits; than recognized by the record-buying public.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917676", "title": "Height above ground level", "text": "Height above ground level\n\nIn aviation, atmospheric sciences and broadcasting, a height above ground level (AGL) is a height measured with respect to the underlying ground surface. This is as opposed to altitude/elevation above mean sea level (AMSL), or (in broadcast engineering) height above average terrain (HAAT). In other words, these expressions (AGL, AMSL, HAAT) indicate where the \"zero level\" or \"reference altitude\" is located.\n\nA pilot flying an aircraft under instrument flight rules (typically under poor visibility conditions) must rely on the aircraft's altimeter to decide when to deploy the undercarriage and prepare for landing. Therefore, the pilot needs reliable information on the height of the plane with respect to the landing area (usually an airport). The altimeter, which is usually a barometer calibrated in units of distance instead of atmospheric pressure, can therefore be set in such a way as to indicate the height of the aircraft above ground. This is done by communicating with the control tower of the airport (to get the current surface pressure) and setting the altimeter so as to read zero on the ground of that airport. Confusion between AGL and AMSL, or improper calibration of the altimeter, may result in controlled flight into terrain, a crash of a fully functioning aircraft under pilot control.\n\nWhile the use of a barometric altimeter setting that provides a zero reading on the ground of the airport is a reference available to pilots, in commercial aviation it is a country-specific procedure that is not often used (it is used, e.g., in Russia, and a few other countries). Most countries (Far East, North and South America, all of Europe, Africa, Australia) use the airport's AMSL (above mean sea level) elevation as a reference. During approaches to landing, there are several other references that are used, including AFE (above field elevation) which is height referencing the highest point on the airfield, TDZE (touchdown zone elevation) or TH (threshold height) which both refer to the elevation of the landing end of the runway measured AMSL and AGL respectively.\n\nIn general, \"altitude\" refers to distance above mean sea level (MSL or AMSL), \"height\" refers to distance above a particular point (e.g. the airport, runway threshold, or ground at present location), and \"elevation\" describes a feature of the terrain itself in terms of distance above MSL. One mnemonic that can be used is: if it's an altitude you can fly there, if it's an elevation you can walk there, and if it's height that's how far a rock will fall before it hits the ground.\n\nIn weather and climate studies, measurements or simulations often need to refer to a specific height or altitude, which is naturally AGL. However, the values of geophysical variables measured in various places on the natural (ground) surface may not be easily compared in hilly or mountainous terrain, because part of the observed variability is due to changes in the altitude of the surface. For this reason, variables such as pressure or temperature are sometimes 'reduced' to mean sea level.\n\nIn general circulation models and global climate models, the state and properties of the atmosphere are specified or computed at a number of discrete locations and heights. When the topography of the continents is explicitly represented, the altitudes of these locations are set above the simulated ground level. This is often implemented using the so-called sigma coordinate system, which is the ratio of the pressure at a location (latitude, longitude, altitude) divided by the pressure at the nadir of that location on ground surface (same latitude, same longitude, altitude AGL = 0).\n\nIn broadcasting, altitude AGL has relatively little direct bearing on the broadcast range of a station. Rather, it is HAAT (the height above the average terrain (in the surrounding area)) which is used to determine how far a broadcast station (or any other sort of VHF or higher radio-frequency) transmission will travel.\n\nFrom aviation safety perspective though, the more important aspect is the height of the radio tower used to support the radio antenna. In this case, height AGL is the only important measurement for aviation authorities, which require that some tall towers have proper Aircraft warning paint and lights to avoid collisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917692", "title": "Bandvagn 206", "text": "Bandvagn 206\n\nBandvagn 206 (Bv 206) (meaning \"\"Tracked Vehicle 206\"\" in english) is a tracked articulated, all-terrain carrier developed by Hägglunds (now part of BAE Systems Global Combat Systems) for the Swedish Army. It consists of two units, with all four tracks powered. It can carry up to 17 people (6 in the front compartment, 11 in the rear), and the trailer unit can be adapted for different uses (see Variants section).\n\nDevelopment of the Bv 206 all-terrain articulated tracked carrier began in 1974. Three batches of trial vehicles were delivered between 1976 and 1978 and the first production examples were delivered to the Swedish Defense Administration in 1980.\n\nLike its predecessor, the Volvo Bv 202, the Bv 206 is designed to carry troops and equipment through snow and bog-lands in northern Sweden. The low ground pressure enables the Bv 206 to cope with a wide range of difficult conditions. It is also fully amphibious, with a speed in water of up to 4.7 km/h. Over 11,000 have been produced and they are used in more than 37 countries worldwide.\n\nThe total load capacity is 2,250 kg and a trailer of up to 2,500 kg gross weight can also be towed behind the second compartment.\n\nThe Bv 206 is referred to as a \"Small Unit Support Vehicle\" (SUSV) pronounced \"susvee\" in United States service. U.S. military variants include the standard model (M973), a tactical operations center variant (M1065), an ambulance variant (M1066) and a flat-bed cargo carrier (M1067). U.S. military models are fitted with a 6-cylinder Mercedes diesel engine and a non-halon fire suppression system since 1997 due to several cases where the front car caught fire and burned to the frame.\n\nUsers include the American and Australian Antarctic research organizations and British, Icelandic and Canadian search and rescue services. They are also used for search and rescue services in the Austrian alpine region. The Bv 206 was used in combat by the Canadian Army during Operation Anaconda. The Singapore Armed Forces uses the Bv 206, and recently transferred several of them to the Singapore Civil Defense Force for use as a firefighting platform.\n\nDecommissioned units have been purchased by private owners and rented as transports, particularly in Alberta, Canada, to access remote oil wells, as well as cut blocks which need to be reforested by tree planting.\n\nThe Bv 206 is used in Antarctica, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Indonesia, Italy, Lithuania, Latvia, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\nThe Bv206A is an ambulance version, which is capable of carrying stretchers in the rear compartment.\n\nThe BV206F is a fire appliance variant.\n\nThe RaBv 2061 (RadioBandvagn 2061) is a Swedish Army communications/command version, fitted with radio equipment and workplaces for staff members.\n\nThe PvBv 2062 (PansarvärnsBandvagn 2062) is a Swedish Army anti-tank vehicle, an open top version of the Bv 206 armed with a 90 mm Pvpj 1110 recoilless anti-tank gun.\n\nThe PvBv 2063 (PansarvärnsBandvagn 2063) is another Swedish Army anti-tank vehicle, similar to PvBv 2062, but fitted with the launch system for an ATGM, either the TOW (Rbs 55) or the Bofors BILL (Rbs 56).\n\nThe Bv206S is an armoured personnel carrier variant of the Bv 206, which provides protection from small arms fire for the occupants. It is in service with the armed forces of France, Germany (379 Bv 206D/S ordered), Spain, Netherlands, Italy (158 units), Sweden (50 units), Greece (Bv 208) and Singapore (300 units), which has replaced it with the Bronco All Terrain Tracked Carrier.\n\nUsing a Steyr M1-\"Monoblock\" engine (6-cylinder, 130 kW), the vehicle can carry the driver and 12 combat-equipped troops — four in the front compartment and eight in the rear. The Bv 206S can be underslung and airlifted by Boeing CH-47 Chinook and Sikorsky CH-53E Super Stallion helicopters or carried in the C130 Hercules airplane, amongst others.\n\nCanadian troops taking part in Operation Anaconda in Afghanistan made good use of this vehicle, riding over rough mountainous terrain with full combat gear, allowing the men to avoid the exhaustion they would have felt moving on foot at such high altitudes and in such conditions.\n\nThe UK is looking to replace its Bv206Ds by 2020.\n\nThe BvS 10, not to be confused with the Bv 206 or Bv 206S, is a much larger (therefore equipped with a 6-cylinder Steyr M1 engine with 200 kW) and fully amphibious armoured vehicle based upon the characteristic twin-cab, articulated steering system typical of Hägglunds all terrain vehicles. It was originally designed for the British Royal Marines Commandos and named All Terrain Vehicle (Protected) - ATV(P) VIKING. It is in service with the Royal Marines Armoured Support Group and the Royal Netherlands Marine Corps while the French Army have recently ordered 130 Bvs10s. It's planned for Italian Army.\n\nThe BvS 10 Beowulf is essentially an unarmored version of the BvS 10 Viking.\n\nOther variants exist including mortar launcher, cargo carrier, fuel carrier, radar, command post and radio relay. The units can easily be customized to meet customer requirements.\n\n\n\n\nSimilar vehicles with the Bv206 ATV include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917699", "title": "List of materials analysis methods", "text": "List of materials analysis methods\n\nList of materials analysis methods:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917704", "title": "Benfeld", "text": "Benfeld\n\nBenfeld (; Alsatian: \"Banfald\" ) is a commune in the Bas-Rhin department in Grand Est in northeastern France. It is situated on the river Ill. In the nearby hamlet Ehl there is an archaeological site with the remains of the Gallo-Roman city \"Ellelum\" or \"Helvetum\". \n\nThe core of the town boasts a number of ancient buildings, chief among them the Renaissance town hall with its 1619 automata. The handsome 1846 synagogue survived the Nazi occupation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917706", "title": "Ploučnice", "text": "Ploučnice\n\nThe Ploučnice () is a river in the Czech Republic. It is a tributary of the Labe, which it flows into in Děčín. It is long, and its basin area is about , of which in the Czech Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917707", "title": "Codex Belli", "text": "Codex Belli\n\nCodex Belli is the name of a set of rules for medieval combat reenactment first issued in 1999 and then revised by the German umbrella group Kämpferliste in 2002.\n\nThe Codex Belli, literally \"Laws of Battle\", are a ruleset for unchoreographed semi-contact combat with medieval reenactment weapons, which differ most notably from realistic replicas in that they have rounded edges and points. The goal of this ruleset was to create a common standard for safe fighting practices as lower-scale reenactment events grew larger and a trust-based system became insufficient with the increasing number of reenactors involved.\n\nNumerous German medieval reenactment groups have adopted the Codex Belli as a standard ruleset for combat reenactment, in preference to custom rules based on other groups, such as the SCA. Among other things, its application at major national reenactment events has led to an increasing popularity, although critics have attempted to establish different systems.\n\nAlthough the Codex Belli itself doesn't specify any rules for counting hits, two variants have become widely accepted at German events. These variants differ only in how many hit points an unarmoured combatant (e.g. someone wearing a gambeson, padded vest, or no armour at all) starts out with.\n\nSome groups prefer setting that default to a single hit point, which leads to shorter battles and strongly favours chainmail, which grants the wearer one additional hit point, or plate armour, which grants the wearer two or more hit points, usually depending on whether it is a half-plate or full plate.\n\nThe other common variant is giving unarmoured combatants three hit points, which lowers the advantage of heavy armour, especially in longer battles where armoured combatants often tire out faster than unarmoured ones because of the added weight of metal armour.\n\nGenerally any hit counts as a single hit and deducts one of the victim's \"lives\" or \"hit points\", usually resulting in death in case of the single-hit variant. Some variations count hits with a projectile, such as an arrow or crossbow bolt, twice because the added range gives the victim more time to react than when having to deal with a melee attacker.\n\nSometimes, especially in training battles, trainees with little prior experience or who haven't been in a many-against-many combat before are granted an additional hit point.\nCombinations of these rules rarely result in a total number of hit-points greater than six using the triple-hit rule or four using the single-hit rule.\n\nSince some interpretations of the Codex Belli go as far as banning hits against the entire length of the lower arms and lower legs, shields have become the standard choice for a secondary weapon in these combats because they can cover the entire legal hit area (torso, upper arms and upper legs).\n\nAs a result, the unusual practice of attempting to hit the opponent on the back while facing him from the front has become increasingly popular because it seems to be the easiest way to score a hit when both combatants are using a sword and shield combination.\n\nThis is not only a very artificial technique, it is also criticised for provoking injuries in the upper body area or, especially in the absence of a solid helmet, on the head — both of which the Codex Belli was supposed to protect — by being based on the idea of the attacker trying to strike downwards from above the opponent's shoulder, which requires an upward movement of the sword.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917720", "title": "Klute (musician)", "text": "Klute (musician)\n\nKlute is the primary recording alias of Tom Withers, a drum and bass producer and DJ from Ipswich, UK. He is also the drummer, vocalist and songwriter of the English hardcore band The Stupids.\n\nKlute first turned to electronic production in the early 1990s, experimenting with techno before turning to drum and bass. He released two 12\" singles under the 'Override' alias in 1995 and 1996, as well as appearing on Ninja Tune compilations. In 1997 he released the 12\" single \"Deep Control\" under the alias 'The Spectre'. In 1998 the debut Klute LP \"Casual Bodies\" was released on the Certificate 18 imprint; \"Fear of People\" followed in 2000.\n\nIn 2001 he established the label Commercial Suicide. This released his own material, including the albums \"Lie, Cheat & Steal\" (2003), \"No One's Listening Anymore\" (2005), \"The Emperor's New Clothes\", (2007) and \"Music for prophet\" (2010). All of these albums are double CDs with one drum and bass disc and another of downtempo techno and breakbeat and received widespread acclaim in the electronic music community. The track \"Time 4 Change\" from \"No One's Listening Anymore\" was the last tune played on-air by John Peel.\n\nCommercial Suicide has also released tracks from Amit, Break, Digital, Spirit, Calibre, Dom & Roland, Hive, SKC, Gridlok, Jamal, Method One and Chris Su.\n\nAs well as releasing music on his own label, Klute has releases on Hospital Records, 31 Records, Soul:R, Shogun Audio, Metalheadz, and Breakbeat Science Recordings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917723", "title": "Orlice", "text": "Orlice\n\nOrlice () is a river in the Czech Republic. It is tributary of the Labe (\"Elbe\") river, which it enters in the city of Hradec Králové. Its main tributaries are Divoká Orlice and Tichá Orlice. Part of the Divoká Orlice acts as the international boundary between the Czech Republic and Poland. It is 32.5 km long, and its basin area is about 2,040 km, of which 1,965 km in the Czech Republic.\n"}
{"id": "1917724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917724", "title": "Verplanck Colvin", "text": "Verplanck Colvin\n\nVerplanck Colvin (1847–1920) was a lawyer, author, illustrator and topographical engineer whose understanding and appreciation for the environment of the Adirondack Mountains led to the creation of New York's Forest Preserve and the Adirondack Park.\n\nHe was born on January 4, 1847, in Albany, New York to Andrew James Colvin, a wealthy lawyer, and his second wife, Margaret Crane Alling; his first name was his grandmother's maiden name. He was tutored for several years before entering The Albany Academy; then, during the Civil War the family moved to Nassau; there he attended Nassau Academy, where he excelled in the sciences, and graduated in 1864. Although he preferred attending West Point Military Academy, he joined his father's law office in Albany and was later admitted to the bar. Working in real estate law gave him his first experience in surveying.\nIn 1865, when Colvin was 18, Alfred Billings Street gave him a copy of his 1860 book, \"Woods and Waters\", about his adventures in the Adirondack Mountains. The next three years, Colvin spent his summers exploring the Adirondack wilderness. By 1869, he had formed the idea of doing a geological survey of the Adirondack region. To gain experience, he recruited friend Mills Blake for a trip to nearby the Helderberg Mountain; he wrote an illustrated report of the trip that was published in \"Harpers New Monthly Magazine\", a national publication.\nDuring the summer of 1869 he climbed Mount Marcy, and in 1870 made the first recorded ascent of Seward Mountain. During the ascent of Seward, Colvin saw the extensive damage being done by lumbermen in the Adirondacks. His report of the climb was read at the Albany Institute, where it garnered the attention of state officials, and was printed in the annual report of the New York State Museum of Natural History. In it, he tied clear-cutting of Adirondack forests to reduced water flow in the state's canals and rivers, an idea that had first appeared in George Perkins Marsh's \"Man and Nature\", published in 1864.\n\nIn 1872 he applied to New York for a stipend to cover the costs of a survey; he was subsequently named to the newly created post of Superintendent of the Adirondack Survey and given a $1000 budget by the state legislature to institute a survey of the Adirondacks. He was an able administrator, managing crews of up to 100 men separated by difficult terrain with only primitive communication methods. He also designed and built some tools for the job, including a folding canvas boat, and a wind powered spinning reflector to enable precise sighting of a mountain top from many miles away.\n\nDuring the first year he discovered Lake Tear-of-the-Clouds, often considered the source of the Hudson River. He directed surveying parties throughout the Adirondacks and determined the altitudes of most of the highest peaks, becoming obsessed with his task. Determined to fix the precise altitude of Mount Marcy (having decided that the barometric method of determining altitude was insufficiently accurate) he established a series of 111 elevation benchmarks along the course of a forty mile trek from Westport on Lake Champlain to the summit of Marcy, each intermediate altitude being calculated to a precision of one-thousandth of a foot. As the crew approached the summit of Marcy, they encountered an October snow storm with ice and freezing rain; despite urging by his guides and assistants to wait for better weather, Colvin pushed on despite the danger of becoming trapped in Panther Gorge. At 4:50 PM on November 4, 1875, Colvin took the final observation on the summit of Mt. Marcy and determined its elevation to be 5,344.311 feet above mean tide level in the Hudson. Upon his return to Panther Gorge later that evening, Colvin wrote \"\"Joy reigned in the camp to-night, for we had accomplished the work in the face of the greatest difficulties; when the most experienced guide had ventured to say that it was for this season impossible. In honor of the event we had a choice supper of bear's meat fried, boiled and stewed, and hard bread and biscuit; then, unmindful of the snow storm beating in and around our open shanty, fell fast asleep.\"\"\n\nIn 1873 he wrote a report arguing that if the Adirondack watershed was allowed to deteriorate, it would threaten the viability of the Erie Canal, which was then vital to New York's economy, and that the entire Adirondack region should therefore be protected by the creation of a state forest preserve. He was subsequently appointed superintendent of the New York state land survey, which led to the creation of the Adirondack Forest Preserve in 1885. His work ended in 1900 when then Governor Theodore Roosevelt transferred his duties to the state engineer.\n\nHe was a member of numerous scientific societies and was president of the department of physical science at the Albany Institute. About 1881, at Hamilton College, he delivered lectures on geodesy, surveying, and topographical engineering. His maps, reports, illustrations and notes form a large part of the archives of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation in Albany and are often referred to by present-day surveyors. In 1891, he ran on the Republican ticket for New York State Engineer and Surveyor but was defeated by Democrat Martin Schenck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917730", "title": "Michel Onfray", "text": "Michel Onfray\n\nMichel Onfray (; born 1 January 1959) is a French writer and philosopher. Having a hedonistic, epicurean and atheist world view, he is a highly prolific author on philosophy, having written more than 100 books. His philosophy is mainly influenced by such thinkers as Nietzsche, Epicurus, the Cynic and Cyrenaic schools, as well as French materialism.\n\nHe has gained notoriety for writing such works as \"Traité d'athéologie: Physique de la métaphysique\" (translated into English as \"\"), \"Politique du rebelle: traité de résistance et d'insoumission\", \"Physiologie de Georges Palante, portrait d'un nietzchéen de gauche\", \"La puissance d'exister\" and \"La sculpture de soi\" for which he won the annual Prix Médicis in 1993.\n\nBorn in Argentan to a family of Norman farmers, Onfray was sent to a weekly Catholic boarding school from ages 10 to 14. This was a solution many parents in France adopted at the time when they lived far from the village school or had working hours that made it too hard or too expensive to transport their children to and from school daily. The young Onfray, however, did not appreciate his new environment, which he describes as a place of suffering. Onfray went on to graduate with a teaching degree in philosophy. He taught this subject to senior students at a high school that concentrates on technical degrees in Caen between 1983 and 2002. At that time, he and his supporters established the \"Université populaire de Caen\", proclaiming its foundation on a free-of-charge basis and on the manifesto written by Onfray in 2004 (\"La communauté philosophique\").\n\nOnfray is an atheist and author of \"Traité d'Athéologie\" (\"\"), which \"became the number one best-selling nonfiction book in France for months when it was published in the Spring of 2005 (the word 'atheologie' Onfray borrowed from Georges Bataille). This book repeated its popular French success in Italy, where it was published in September 2005 and quickly soared to number one on Italy's bestseller lists.\"\n\nIn the 2002 election, Onfray endorsed the French Revolutionary Communist League and its candidate for the French presidency, Olivier Besancenot. In 2007, he endorsed José Bové, but eventually voted for Olivier Besancenot, and conducted an interview with the future French president Nicolas Sarkozy, who, he declared for \"Philosophie Magazine,\" was an \"ideological enemy\".\n\nHis book \"Le crépuscule d'une idole : L'affabulation freudienne\" (\"The Twilight of an Idol: The Freudian Confabulation\"), published in 2010, has been the subject of considerable controversy in France because of its criticism of Freud. He recognizes Freud as a philosopher, but he brings attention to the considerable cost of Freud's treatments and casts doubts on the effectiveness of his methods.\n\nIn 2015, he published \"Cosmos\", the first book of a trilogy. Onfray considers ironically that it constitutes his \"very first book\".\n\nOnfray writes that there is no philosophy without self-psychoanalysis. He describes himself as an atheist and considers theist religion to be indefensible.\n\nOnfray has published 9 books under a project of history of philosophy called \"Counter-history of Philosophy\". In each of these books Onfray deals with a particular historical period in western philosophy. The series of books are composed by the titles I. \"Les Sagesses Antiques\" (2006) (on western antiquity), II. \"Le Christianisme hédoniste\" (2006) (on Christian hedonism from the Renaissance period), III. \"Les libertins baroques\" (2007) (on libertine thought from the Baroque era), IV. \"Les Ultras des Lumières\" (2007) (on radical enlightenment thought), V. \"L'Eudémonisme social\" (2008) (on radical utilitarian and eudomonistic thought), VI. \"Les Radicalités existentielles\" (2009) (on 19th and 20th century radical existentialist thinkers) and VII. \"La construction du surhomme: Jean-Marie Guyau, Friedrich Nietzsche\" (on Guyau´s and Nietzsche´s philosophy in relation to the concept of the \"Übermensch\"). VIII. \"Les Freudiens hérétiques\" (2013). IX. \"Les Consciences réfractaires\" (2013).\n\nIn an interview he establishes his view on the history of philosophy. For him:\n\nThere is in fact a multitude of ways to practice philosophy, but out of this multitude, the dominant historiography picks one tradition among others and makes it the truth of philosophy: that is to say the idealist, spiritualist lineage compatible with the Judeo-Christian world view. From that point on, anything that crosses this partial – in both senses of the word – view of things finds itself dismissed. This applies to nearly all non-Western philosophies, Oriental wisdom in particular, but also sensualist, empirical, materialist, nominalist, hedonistic currents and everything that can be put under the heading of \"anti-Platonic philosophy\". Philosophy that comes down from the heavens is the kind that – from Plato to Levinas by way of Kant and Christianity – needs a world behind the scenes to understand, explain and justify this world. The other line of force rises from the earth because it is satisfied with the given world, which is already so much.\n\"His mission is to rehabilitate materialist and sensualist thinking and use it to re-examine our relationship to the world. Approaching philosophy as a reflection of each individual's personal experience, Onfray inquires into the capabilities of the body and its senses and calls on us to celebrate them through music, painting, and fine cuisine.\"\n\n He defines hedonism \"as an introspective attitude to life based on taking pleasure yourself and pleasuring others, without harming yourself or anyone else.\" \"Onfray's philosophical project is to define an ethical hedonism, a joyous utilitarianism, and a generalized aesthetic of sensual materialism that explores how to use the brain's and the body's capacities to their fullest extent – while restoring philosophy to a useful role in art, politics, and everyday life and decisions.\"\n\nOnfray's works \"have explored the philosophical resonances and components of (and challenges to) science, painting, gastronomy, sex and sensuality, bioethics, wine, and writing. His most ambitious project is his projected six-volume \"Counter-history of Philosophy\"\", of which three have been published.\n\nFor Onfray:\n\nIn opposition to the ascetic ideal advocated by the dominant school of thought, hedonism suggests identifying the highest good with your own pleasure and that of others; the one must never be indulged at the expense of sacrificing the other. Obtaining this balance – my pleasure at the same time as the pleasure of others – presumes that we approach the subject from different angles – political, ethical, aesthetic, erotic, bioethical, pedagogical, historiographical...\n\nHis philosophy aims for \"micro-revolutions\", or \"revolutions of the individual and small groups of like-minded people who live by his hedonistic, libertarian values.\"\n\nIn \"La puissance d'exister: Manifeste hédoniste\", Onfray claims that the political dimension of hedonism runs from Epicurus to John Stuart Mill through Jeremy Bentham and Claude Adrien Helvétius. What political hedonism aims for is to create \"the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers\".\n\nBlogger J. M. Cornwell praised Onfray's \"Atheist Manifesto: The Case Against Christianity, Judaism, and Islam\", claiming it \"is a religious and historical time capsule\" containing what he sees as \"the true deceptions of theological philosophy\".\n\nRecently he has been involved in promoting the work of Jean Meslier, an 18th-century French Catholic priest who was discovered, upon his death, to have written a book-length philosophical essay promoting atheism.\n\nIn the atheist manifesto, Onfray has said that among the \"incalculable number of contradictions and improbabilities in the body of the text of the synoptic Gospels\" two claims are made: crucifixion victims were not laid to rest in tombs, and in any case Jews were not crucified in this period. Ancient Historian John Dickson, of Macquarie University, has said that Philo of Alexandria, writing about the time of Jesus, says that sometimes the Romans handed the bodies of crucifixion victims over to family members for proper burial. The Roman Jewish historian Flavius Josephus even remarks: \"the Jews are so careful about funeral rites that even malefactors who have been sentenced to crucifixion are taken down and buried before sunset\". Regarding the second claim, Dickson calls this a \"clear historical blunder\".\n\nIn his latest book, \"Décadence\" he argued for Christ myth theory, which is a hypotheses that Jesus was not a historical person. Onfray based this on the fact that, other than in the New Testament, Jesus is barely mentioned in accounts of the period.\n\nOnfray was a high school philosophy teacher for two decades until he resigned in 2002 to establish a tuition-free Université Populaire (People's University) at Caen, at which he and several colleagues teach philosophy and other subjects.\n\n\"The Université Populaire, which is open to all who cannot access the state university system, and on principle does not accept any money from the State -- Onfray uses the profits from his books to help finance it -- has had enormous success. Based on Onfray's book \"La Communauté Philosophique: Manifeste pour l'Université Populaire\" (2004), the original UP now has imitators in Picardy, Arras, Lyon, Narbonne, and Le Mans, with five more in preparation.\" \"The national public radio network France Culture annually broadcasts his course of lectures to the Université Populaire on philosophical themes.\"\n\nAsteroid 289992 Onfray, discovered by astronomers at the Saint-Sulpice Observatory in 2005, was named in his honor. The official was published by the Minor Planet Center on 16 March 2014 ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917738", "title": "June MacCloy", "text": "June MacCloy\n\nJune MacCloy (June 2, 1909 – May 5, 2005) was an American actress and singer in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nBorn in Sturgis, Michigan, MacCloy moved to Toledo, Ohio as a child.\n\nIn 1928 she joined \"Vanities\", produced by Earl Carroll, but her mother forced her to quit due to her skimpy costume. When she was a teenager, MacCloy was chosen by song writer/producer Lew Brown (of the prolific team DeSylva, Brown & Henderson) to impersonate Broadway star Harry Richman, singing \"I'm On The Crest of a Wave\" in the ninth edition of \"George White's Scandals\" (Apollo Theater, July 2, 1928; 230 performances).\n\nJust prior to making her first movie MacCloy was working in New York City clubs such as the Abbey and Chateau Madrid. She also toured with a Parkington Vaudeville Unit, which used the designing talents of a young Vincente Minnelli. After her film début she appeared with Lupe Vélez, Bert Lahr, Buddy Rogers and June Knight in \"Hot-Cha\", Florenz Ziegfeld's last production (Ziegfeld Theater, March 8, 1932; 119 performances). Her big number was \"Little Old New York\" by Lew Brown and Ray Henderson.\n\nSigned by Paramount Pictures in 1930, she was loaned out to United Artists for her first feature, \"Reaching for the Moon (film)\" (1931), starring Bebe Daniels, Douglas Fairbanks, Sr., Edward Everett Horton and Claud Allister. She plays 'Kitty,' Bebe Daniels' flirtatious best friend. The director, Edmund Goulding, was casting another Fairbanks film when he heard about MacCloy and wired her to come and test. Her first Paramount film was \"June Moon\" (released March 21, 1931), based on the play by George S. Kaufman and Ring Lardner.\n\nSubsequently, MacCloy appeared in a variety of shorts and some features with stars such as Jack Oakie, Frances Dee and ZaSu Pitts. With co-stars Gertrude Short and Marion Shilling, she made a series of shorts for RKO-Pathé called \"The Gay Girls\". One of her directors was the then disgraced Fatty Arbuckle. She co-starred with Leon Errol in the second full Technicolor film \"Good Morning, Eve!\" (1934), released just after another Leon Errol short \"Service With a Smile\" (1934).\n\nMacCloy is probably best remembered today for her last major film role in \"Go West\" (1940), starring the Marx Brothers.\n\nMacCloy subsequently sang with dance orchestras, including Johnny Hamp, Henry King, Jimmie Grier and Ben Pollack. In San Francisco she was featured with the Williams-Walsh Orchestra (Griff Williams and Jimmy Walsh) at the Hotel Mark Hopkins. Her band work took her to Chicago and many other cities.\n\nIn March 1931, MacCloy was sued for divorce in Cincinnati, Ohio by Wilbur Guthlein, whom she married in the 1920s. MacCloy married Schuyler Schenck in 1931 and divorced him in 1933. \nIn December 1941, she married architect and fellow jazz enthusiast Neal Wendell Butler, with whom she raised two children. They remained married until his death in 1985.\n\nMacCloy died May 5, 2005 of natural causes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917741", "title": "Chrudimka", "text": "Chrudimka\n\nChrudimka is a river in the Pardubice Region in the Czech Republic. It is a left tributary of Labe, beginning near Hlinsko and flowing mostly northward to the city of Pardubice. It is 106.0 km long, and its basin area is 866 km.\n"}
{"id": "1917748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917748", "title": "List of IARC Group 2B Agents - Possibly carcinogenic to humans", "text": "List of IARC Group 2B Agents - Possibly carcinogenic to humans\n\nSubstances, mixtures and exposure circumstances in this list have been classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as \"Group 2B: The agent (mixture) is \"possibly carcinogenic to humans\". The exposure circumstance entails exposures that are possibly carcinogenic to humans.\" This category is used for agents, mixtures and exposure circumstances for which there is limited evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and less than sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. It may also be used when there is inadequate evidence of carcinogenicity in humans but there is sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. In some instances, an agent, mixture or exposure circumstance for which there is inadequate evidence of carcinogenicity in humans but limited evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals together with supporting evidence from other relevant data may be placed in this group. \nFurther details can be found in the preamble to the IARC Monographs.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917751", "title": "Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District", "text": "Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District\n\nThe Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District (CRPUSD) is a school district in Sonoma County, California.\n\nThe District serves approximately 6000 students in the cities of Cotati and Rohnert Park and neighboring areas of Sonoma County. The district operates six elementary schools, two middle schools, a K-8 school, one comprehensive high school, a magnet school and charters two schools.\n\nThe district's offices are located at 7165 Burton Avenue, Rohnert Park, CA 94928-3316.\n\nThe district is supported by numerous school-connected organizations, which include PTAs, Boosters and the Education Foundation of Cotati & Rohnert Park, a non-profit organization founded in 1983 to provide private grants to the school district. Since its founding, the organization has made grants totaling over $850,000 to the district's schools.\n\nThe district is governed by a board consisting of Tracy Farrell (term expires 2018), Marc Orloff (term expires 2018), Timothy Nonn (term expires 2020), Jennifer Wiltermood (term expires 2020), and Leffler Brown (term expires 2018). The superintendent is Dr. Robert Haley.\n\nThe building of schools always reflects growth. In 1900, there was only an 8-grade, one-room school house located on land donated by the Pages. When the first Rohnert Park children started attending school in Cotati, there were less than 250 students and only one school in Cotati School District. The Cotati-Rohnert Park School District today is a complete system. Many schools have been built. John Reed was the first school in Rohnert Park (dedicated in January, 1962), thereafter, Waldo Rohnert, Thomas Page (in Cotati), and La Fiesta Elementary Schools, Rohnert Park Jr. High School, and Rancho Cotate Sr. High School were built.\n\nRohnert Park also has facilities for higher education---Sonoma State College. In 1957, the California legislature appropriated $500,000 for the purchase of a site for a \"North Bay Counties Four Year College\" in the Santa Rosa—Petaluma corridor to serve Marin, Sonoma, and Solano Counties. Many sites were considered. Rohnert Park had the most to offer, however: the ability to provide water and sewer services, and a central location. The 99-year agreement to extend these services provides that Rohnert Park may annex the College site into the City at any time, but no other City may annex the College. Ambrose Nichols presided as the College's first President when, five years later, the College was opened to students in the temporary quarters along College View Drive (behind the shopping center on Southwest Blvd.). In the fall of 1966, the permanent buildings located on 200 acres of the old Benson Ranch were finally opened for classes and the College was in full swing.\n\nThe City has grown in both population and acreage. The population growth was strong and steady for a decade, from 2,775 at incorporation to 6,300 in 1970 when Rohnert Park surpassed Healdsburg as the third largest City in the County. Then the City rapidly grew; the population more than doubled to 15,100 by 1977.\n\nThe pattern of the City's growth with respect to size is just the reverse: ambitious in the early years, but slow since 1968. The original District consisted of the 2,700 acre Rohnert land and the 580 acre Brians land. When the City incorporated, however, only a part of the District was included in the City limits, 1,325 acres. The City grew between 1962 and 1968 to 3,812 acres. Several of the annexations were routine. Some of the proposals to annex additional lands became heated battles with people to the north and south. The golf course and country club subdivisions were annexed, so was the high school site, land for Rancho Verde and Rancho Feliz mobilehome parks, and the \"L\" neighborhood. But lands to the north of Wilfred Road and acreage around the College were never annexed. The most ambitious proposal of the City Council was the tongue-in-cheek resolution to annex the entire city of Santa Rosa. (This unanimously passed resolution was not kindly received by the City to the north.)\n\nHigh schools\n\nMiddle schools\n\nElementary schools\nK-8 schools\nCharter Schools\n\nIn June 2012, district voters considered Measure D, a ballot measure to authorize a $89 parcel tax for five years to offset budget cuts. The Measure required 2/3 approval, and it passed with 66.9%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917754", "title": "Robert J. Gordon", "text": "Robert J. Gordon\n\nRobert James \"Bob\" Gordon is an American economist. He is the Stanley G. Harris Professor of the Social Sciences at Northwestern University. He is known for his work on productivity, growth, the causes of unemployment, and airline economics.\n\nGordon graduated Magna Cum Laude with a B.A. from Harvard University in 1962. He then attended Oxford University as a Marshall Scholar and received his B.A. in 1964. He received his Ph.D. from MIT in 1967 with a dissertation titled \"Problems in the Measurement of Real Investment in the U.S. Private Economy.\"\n\nFrom 1995 to 1997, he served on the Boskin Commission to assess the accuracy of the United States Consumer Price Index (CPI), having written the definitive criticism of CPI inflation overstatement in 1990. He is also a member of the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the NBER, which determines when recessions start and end.\n\nRobert J. Gordon's popular text \"Macroeconomics\" was the first to incorporate the rational expectations hypothesis into the analysis of the Phillips curve. Soon all subsequent macro textbooks were expounding the \"Expectations Augmented Phillips Curve.\" In addition, Gordon has written for economic journals, outlining the relation of the productivity growth of modern-day inventions to the great inventions of the late 19th century. He focuses on the impact of computers in the post-1995 economy on the durable manufacturing sector. Furthermore, he emphasises the marginal productivity of computing technology affects standard of living in a much more contained fashion than the earlier great American inventions. He downplays the role of computer technology in the economic growth of the latter 20th century in accounting for business cycle and trends. In addition, he also questions the actual productivity of such technological developments.\n\nGordon is a member of a family of economists. Both his parents Robert Aaron and Margaret earned distinction independently, each contributing to economic knowledge with a view to real practical benefit for society, as did his brother David, himself more of a radical. For example, his father is the namesake of the \"Gordon Report\" which proposed reforms for the computation of the unemployment rate by the US Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics. He currently resides in Evanston, Illinois with his wife Julie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917757", "title": "Scoop Jackson (writer)", "text": "Scoop Jackson (writer)\n\nRobert \"Scoop\" Jackson (born November 23, 1963) is an American sports journalist, author and cultural critic currently contributing to ESPN.com.\n\nJackson was born and raised in Chicago, where he still lives with his wife and two children; he was born the day after U.S. President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, and Jackson was named after his uncle joked, \"This boy scooped Kennedy. Put him on the cover of the paper.\" He attended Luther High School South in Chicago, was educated at Xavier University (LA) and received a Master in Arts degree from Howard University where he made the National Dean's List in 1990-91 before becoming a journalist. His father was a writer for the \"Rocky Mountain News\" in Denver.\n\nJackson began is career as a freelance writer. Appearing in various publications has including USA Today, Washington Post, Chicago Tribune, The Source The Final Call. Authoring two books, The Last Black Mecca and The Darkside. He has written for basketball and hip hop magazines for at least 25 years, executive editing \"SLAM Magazine\", XXL, and edited Hoop and Inside Stuff. He has also written for and Vibe and is a frequent guest on radio and TV sports talk shows, and is regularly featured on ESPN's Sports Century series. Jackson's first article for \"SLAM\" appeared in the January 1995 issue titled \"The Large Professor\", a story about Shaquille O'Neal. At one time, Jackson pushed \"SLAM\" publisher Dennis Page to put Allen Iverson on the cover of the magazine while Iverson was still playing basketball at Georgetown University, threatening to resign if this did not happen. In addition to his regular feature articles for \"SLAM\", in 2004 Jackson began to write a back-page column named \"Game Point\", in which he aired opinions on various basketball-related topics. Jackson continued to write for \"SLAM\" until the July 2005 issue.\n\nIn 2000 Jackson was commissioned by Nike to pen the first book about the company's contribution to basketball and sneaker culture with Where Jackson stayed on with the company for five years a content and copy writer before joining ESPN.\n\nHe began writing for ESPN.com on March 8, 2005 with his first article being a statement of his sporting views entitled \"Scoop's Manifesto\". In 2006, upon his one-year anniversary with ESPN, he had a follow up article stating what he learned on the job. The article ended with him saying that he believes he is continuing Ralph Wiley's legacy, and stated that \"I hope that I am doing him justice.\" Consequently, this article led to a feud with now former ESPN.com columnist Jason Whitlock, who criticized Jackson in an interview and called him a \"bojangler\" for portraying himself as the next Ralph Wiley. This led to Whitlock's firing from ESPN.\n\nWhile writing for ESPN he often campaigns against injustices against blacks in America. In a Jan 10th 2008 article entitled \"Time for Tiger to roar,\" Jackson called for golfer Tiger Woods to show outrage over a comment a friend and golf announcer made during one of Tigers matches. He also wrote an article entitled \"The Willingham Question\" in which he claims that Notre Dame exhibited racism in the firing of then head football coach Ty Willingham.\n\nDuring the 2008 World Series, Jackson found himself surrounded by controversy after writing a column about Tampa Bay Rays star B.J. Upton. Jackson argued that Upton (who is African-American) can be a role model to the black community because of his \"propensity to be lazy\". One writer for a Rays blog later said, \"Could you imagine Scoop Jackson's reaction if Peter Gammons had written that paragraph? ... Good lord Scoop. We don't mean to yell, but did you eat paint chips when you were a kid? Of all the positive things Upton does on the baseball field that are worthy of emulating, Jackson picks laziness as why inner-city kids will gravitate to the Rays center fielder.\" His first contribution to \"ESPN The Magazine\" appeared in the May 8, 2006 issue titled \"It's Time\" which was a short article explaining why he was picking the New Jersey Nets to win the 2005-06 NBA championship. Having grown up with Tim Hardaway, he interviewed him for a column that appeared on ESPN.com on February 23, 2007, about Hardaway's comment, \"I hate gay people.\"\n\nIn 2015 Jackson transferred from senior writer at ESPN.com to senior writer at Sportscenter for ESPN. He also returned to copyright for Nike. Helping develop their EQUALITY campaigns. In 2017 he won the New York International Television & Film gold medal award for Sports Coverage for his ESPN feature on the anticipation of the Chicago Cubs winning the World Series.\n\nJackson is a fan of the Chicago White Sox and the New York Knicks. He is a founding member of The Music Snobs podcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917763", "title": "Recoil temperature", "text": "Recoil temperature\n\nIn laser cooling, the Boltzmann constant times the recoil temperature is equal to the recoil energy deposited in a single atom initially at rest by the spontaneous emission of a single photon. The recoil temperature is\n\nformula_1,\n\nsince the photon's momentum is formula_2 (here formula_3 is the wavevector of the light, formula_4 is the mass of an atom, formula_5 is Boltzmann's constant and formula_6 is Planck's constant). The recoil temperature for the D2 lines of alkali atoms is typically on the order of 1 μK, and thus lower than the Doppler temperature. An example of a process where the recoil temperature can be reached is Sisyphus cooling.\n"}
{"id": "1917769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917769", "title": "Sun Bin", "text": "Sun Bin\n\nSun Bin (died 316 BC) was a Chinese general, military strategist, and writer who lived during the Warring States period of Chinese history. A supposed descendant of Sun Tzu, Sun was tutored in military strategy by the hermit Guiguzi. He was accused of treason while serving in the Wei state and was sentenced to face-tattooing (criminal branding) and had his kneecaps removed, permanently crippling him. Sun escaped from Wei later and rose to prominence in the Qi state, by serving as a military strategist and commander. He led Qi to victory against the Wei state at the Battle of Guiling and Battle of Maling. Sun authored the military treatise \"Sun Bin's Art of War\", which was rediscovered in a 1972 archaeological excavation after being lost for almost 2000 years.\nAn alleged descendant of Sun Tzu, Sun Bin was recognized for his brilliance at an early age, while he was still studying military strategy under the tutelage of the hermit Guiguzi. He could recite \"The Art of War\", which made Guiguzi remark that all his other students should look up to Sun Bin as a role model. Pang Juan, a fellow student of Guiguzi, became sworn brothers with Sun. Pang left early and went to serve the Wei state as a military general, making his name after scoring victories in a few battles. Sun Bin, who was still studying with their teacher then, was invited to enter the service of Wei and he became Pang's colleague. However, Pang was secretly jealous of Sun, because he perceived that Sun Bin was more talented, and had learnt more about military strategy from their teacher than him.\n\nPang Juan framed Sun Bin for treason and reported him to King Hui of Wei, who ordered Sun Bin to be executed. Pang pretended to plead for mercy on Sun's behalf, and the king instead condemned Sun to face-tattooing and removal of the kneecaps, effectively branding Sun as a criminal and crippling him for life. Pang pretended to take pity on Sun and treated him well while trying to trick Sun into compiling his knowledge on military strategy into a book, after which Pang could kill him. Sun eventually realized Pang's true intentions and feigned madness. Pang attempted to test whether Sun had really become insane or not, so he had Sun locked up in a pigsty. Sun appeared to enjoy himself there and even consumed animal faeces, calling them delicious. Pang believed that Sun was truly mad and lowered his guard. Sun later escaped from the Wei state with the help of diplomats from the Qi state.\n\nIn the Qi state, Sun Bin became a retainer (guest) in the residence of Tian Ji, a military general. Once, King Wei of Qi invited Tian Ji to a horse racing competition. Sun Bin suggested a strategy to Tian Ji to utilize his horses to best advantage, and Tian won two out of three rounds in the race. The king was impressed with Tian's victory. Tian admitted that he won with the help of Sun Bin, and recommended Sun's talents to the king. King Wei wanted to appoint Sun Bin as the commander of the Qi armies. Sun declined, as his handicap prevented him from riding horseback, and would have a negative effect on the morale of soldiers. Sun was then appointed chief military advisor instead and served as Tian Ji's deputy.\n\nIn 354 BC, Wei state attacked the Zhao state, with Pang Juan leading the Wei army. They besieged the Zhao capital city of Handan. Zhao requested help from Qi, and the king of Qi commissioned Sun Bin and Tian Ji to lead an army to help Zhao. Sun Bin proposed the strategy of \"besieging Wei to rescue Zhao\" and the Qi army attacked the Wei capital city of Daliang (present-day Kaifeng), forcing the Wei army to turn back to save the city and effectively lifting the siege on Handan. The Wei army was ambushed and defeated by the Qi forces at the Battle of Guiling.\n\nIn 342 BC, the Wei army led by Pang Juan invaded the Han state, an ally of the Qi state, and Han requested help from Qi. Sun Bin and Tian Ji were put in charge of the Qi army again to counter the Wei forces. Sun used a strategy of feigning defeat in a series of skirmishes with the Wei forces, in order to lure Pang Juan to pursue him. Sun ordered the Qi troops to reduce the number of cooking stoves they used, to create a false impression that the Qi army was shrinking in size. The pursuing Wei forces led by Pang Juan spotted the trend by observing the marks left behind by the stoves, and Pang fell for Sun Bin's ruse. Eager to defeat Sun Bin, Pang continued the pursuit and fell into an ambush in a narrow valley laid by the Qi forces. The Wei army suffered a crushing defeat at the Battle of Maling and Pang Juan committed suicide, while the crown prince of Wei was captured by the Qi forces. In traditional folklore, Sun Bin carved the words \"Pang Juan dies under this tree\" on a tree in the ambush area. When Pang arrived there, he saw that there were carvings on the tree so he lit a torch for a closer look. Right then, using the torch as the target, the Qi troops lying in ambush attacked. Pang committed suicide after being hit by many enemy arrows.\n\nSun Bin retired from service because of political entanglement in the court and led a reclusive life as a hermit in the later part of his life.\n\n\"Sun Bin's Art of War\" () is a military treatise authored by Sun Bin. The book was believed to be lost after the Han Dynasty, and although there were numerous references to it in post-contemporary texts, some historians still believed that the book was never written and could be a forgery. However, in April 1972, archaeologists excavated several fragments of scrolls from a tomb in Linyi, Shandong province. \"Sun Bin's Art of War\" was found among the scrolls. Although ancient texts mention that the original \"Sun Bin's Art of War\" was 89 chapters long, the rediscovered copy had 16 verifiable chapters only. As fragments of Sun Tzu's \"The Art of War\" were discovered as well, historians believed that some of the chapters might belong to \"The Art of War\" instead.\n\nThe newly discovered text provided historians with a different perspective on the Battle of Guiling and Battle of Maling. In addition, when compared to Sun Tzu's \"The Art of War\", \"Sun Bin's Art of War\" contained one major difference from the former. The former advised against siege warfare, while the latter suggested tactics for attacking a besieged city. This paralleled a shift in the strategic consideration of siege warfare during the later stages of the Warring States period.\n\nSun Bin sometimes appears as a door god in Chinese and Taoist temples, usually paired with Pang Juan.\n\nHis rivalry with Pang Juan is portrayed in the 2011 film \"The Warring States\".\n\nSun Bin is one of the 32 historical figures who appear as special characters in the video game \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms XI\" by Koei.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917772", "title": "Sázava (river)", "text": "Sázava (river)\n\nSázava () is a river in Bohemia, Czech Republic. \nIt is a right tributary of the Vltava. It is long, and its basin area is , mostly contained in the Vysočina and Central Bohemian regions (except for a small area in the northeastern corner of Tábor District, South Bohemian Region). \n\nIts sources are in the area of Žďár nad Sázavou, including Velké Dářko (Polnička, Žďár nad Sázavou District).\nIt meanders in a generally north-westwardly direction, past Hamry nad Sázavou, Havlíčkův Brod,\nSázava, Přibyslav, Nové Dvory, Pohled, Havlíčkův Brod, Světlá nad Sázavou, Ledeč nad Sázavou, Chřenovice, across the Vysočina-Central Bohemian border to Vlastějovice, Horka II , Zruč nad Sázavou, where it is joined by its right tributary Želivka, \nKácov, Soběšín, Český Šternberk, Rataje nad Sázavou, Ledečko and Sázava-Černé Budy (Sázava Monastery).\nFrom here it flows generally westward, past Stříbrná Skalice, Chocerady, Hvězdonice, Senohraby (Zlenice castle), Čtyřkoly, Čerčany, Poříčí nad Sázavou, Nespeky, Týnec nad Sázavou, Krhanice, Kamenný Přívoz, reaching its confluence with the Vlatva (at the latter's 78.3 km mark) at the boundary between \nHradištko and Davle, just south of the municipal border of Prague.\n"}
{"id": "1917773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917773", "title": "1998 Portuguese abortion referendum", "text": "1998 Portuguese abortion referendum\n\nOn 28 June 1998 a referendum on a new abortion law was conducted in Portugal; it was the second national referendum in the Portuguese history and the first after the 1974 Carnation Revolution. The law was proposed by the Portuguese Communist Party and it decriminalized abortion during the first ten weeks of pregnancy and was considered by the left as the only way to put an end to the estimated 20 to 50 thousand illegal abortions in the country. The law was approved in the Assembly of the Republic through a majority of the center-left and left-wing parties, but an agreement between the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party parties leaders led to the referendum.\n\nThe referendum was held on a summer day, which is said to have contributed to the fact that the turnout was so low that it didn't pass the threshold of 50 percent of the voters needed to make the decision binding, although the winning answer, NO, was respected and the law wasn't changed, meaning abortion was only allowed in exceptional case (such as rape, mal-formations of the fetus and danger to the women's health). In the following years, a few dozen women (a small minority of the estimated illegal abortions) were defendants in three trials for abortion.\n\nA revote occurred in the 2007 Portuguese abortion referendum, where the result was reversed.\n\nThe question present in the ballots was: \"\"Do you agree with the decriminalization of the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy, if it takes place in the first 10 weeks and in an authorized healthcare institution?\"\"\n\nThe major parties in Portugal at the time listed with their political positioning and their official answer to the referendum question:\n\n\nAll polls published showed an advantage for the YES side, but official results showed a 51% to 49% win for the NO side. Late deciders and a low turnout may explain this result. Note, until 2000, the publication of opinion polls in the last week of the campaign was forbidden.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917780", "title": "Glyptostrobus", "text": "Glyptostrobus\n\nGlyptostrobus, is a small genus of conifers in the family Cupressaceae (formerly in the family Taxodiaceae). The sole living species, \"Glyptostrobus pensilis\", is native to subtropical southeastern China, from Fujian west to southeast Yunnan, and also very locally in northern Vietnam and Borikhamxai Province of eastern Laos near the Vietnam border.\n\nThe genus formerly had a much wider range, covering most of the Northern Hemisphere, including the high Arctic in the Paleocene and Eocene. The oldest known fossils are late Cretaceous in age, found in North America. It contributed greatly to the coal swamps of the Cenozoic era. It was reduced to its current range before and during the Pleistocene ice ages.\n\n\"G. pensilis\" is a medium-sized to large tree, reaching tall and with a trunk diameter of up to , possibly more. The leaves are deciduous, spirally arranged but twisted at the base to lie in two horizontal ranks, long and broad, but long and scale-like on shoots in the upper crown. The cones are green maturing yellow-brown, pear-shaped, long and diameter, broadest near the apex. They open when mature to release the small, long, winged seeds.\n\nIt typically grows in river banks, ponds and swamps, growing in water up to deep. Like the related genus \"Taxodium\", it produces 'cypress knees' when growing in water, thought to help transport oxygen to the roots.\n\nThe species is nearly extinct in the wild due to overcutting for its valuable decay-resistant, scented wood, but it is also fairly widely planted along the banks of rice paddies where its roots help to stabilise the banks by reducing soil erosion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917788", "title": "Shawn Wooten", "text": "Shawn Wooten\n\nWilliam Shawn Wooten (born July 24, 1972) is the assistant major league hitting coach for the Los Angeles Angels. He is a former professional baseball player. He played all or part of five seasons in Major League Baseball with the Anaheim Angels (2000–03), Philadelphia Phillies (2004), and Boston Red Sox (2005). He bats and throws right-handed.\n\nA utility player who played first base, catcher, and third base, Wooten compiled a .272 batting average with 18 home runs and 86 RBI in 266 games played in his major league career. A member of the Angels' 2002 World Series championship team, he was a late bloomer, not making the majors until age 28. After that, while he played well in limited playing time, his career was derailed by a pair of injuries.\n\nWooten was originally drafted and signed by the Detroit Tigers in 1993 as a third baseman. He played a little over two years in the Tigers organization, but was released in midseason in 1995 after batting .129 in 20 games with Double-A Jacksonville. He signed with the independent Moose Jaw Diamond Dogs of the Prairie League, where he hit .373 over the second half of 1995. After playing for Moose Jaw again in 1996, he was signed by the Anaheim Angels for the 1997 season.\n\nThe Angels assigned Wooten to the Class-A Cedar Rapids Kernels, where he began learning the catcher position. In 1998, with the Lake Elsinore Storm, he was the club's starting first baseman, and over the next two seasons Wooten continued to play all three positions. In 2000, he batted .353 with the Triple-A Edmonton Trappers, earning a late-season promotion to the major leagues. He made his major league debut on August 19 as the starting catcher against the New York Yankees and was hitless in four at-bats. His first hit was a single to left field against Kelvim Escobar of the Toronto Blue Jays on August 30. He wound up playing in 7 games, getting five hits in nine at bats.\n\nIn 2001, Wooten spent his first full season in the major leagues with Anaheim (qualifying as a rookie) after making the 25-man roster out of spring training. He opened the campaign batting .385 (10-for-26), with three home runs and six runs batted in in April, leading all American League rookies in home runs for the month. His first homer was hit off Mark Mulder of the Oakland Athletics on April 16. In June, he led Angels hitters with a .386 average (17-for-44) and was batting .328 (42-for-128) at the All-Star break, second to Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki among AL rookies (based on 125 at bats). Wooten hit safely in 47 contests, including 17 multi-hit games.\n\nHis season ended when doctors discovered torn cartilage in his left wrist in early September and he underwent arthroscopic surgery. At the time, he was hitting .312 (69-for-221) with eight home runs and 32 runs batted in in 79 games and ranked second among American League first-year players with a .466 slugging percentage. Nevertheless, he was selected for the Baseball Digest and Topps Major League Baseball rookie All-Star teams. At the time of the injury, his .312 average was second best among American League rookies and was tops on the Angels' club. He wound up starting the most games (27) at designated hitter, but also played 25 games at catcher and 21 at first base.\n\nAfter starting the 2002 season in the minor leagues on a rehab assignment, Wooten came off the disabled list in July 2002. He played in 49 of the team's last 76 games, batting .338 (26-for-77) from August through September, including three doubles in a game to tie a team record. Overall, he finished with a .292 average in 49 games, mostly as a DH or first baseman.\n\nIn the 2002 postseason, Wooten was used as the club's DH against left-handed pitching, platooning with Brad Fullmer. In the 2002 American League Division Series against the New York Yankees, Wooten started two of the four games at DH and pinch-hit in a third. He had six hits in nine at-bats, including a game-tying home run off David Wells in the fifth inning of Game 4, which the Angels went on to win to finish off the series. In the ALCS against the Minnesota Twins, Wooten started one game and played in two others, going 2-for-8 with one RBI. In the World Series against the San Francisco Giants, who did not start any left-handers, he appeared in three games, going 1-for-2. Overall, he hit .474 (9-for-19) with one home run, three RBI and five runs scored in nine postseason games, third best among all hitters in the playoffs.\n\nIn 2003, Wooten posted career highs in games (98), at bats (272), runs (25) and walks (24), hitting .243 with seven home runs and 32 RBI. Anaheim pitchers posted a 3.81 ERA with him behind the plate. After a knee injury, Wooten was used mainly as a pinch hitter. His .350 pinch-average (7-for-20) tied for second in the American League.\n\nWooten became a free agent after the 2003 season, and signed with the Philadelphia Phillies before the 2004 season. He was used mostly as a pinch hitter and backup to starting first baseman Jim Thome. However, he batted just .184 and was sent to the minor leagues in July, returning when the rosters expanded in September. He became a free agent again after the season.\n\nThe Boston Red Sox signed Wooten to a minor league contract before the 2005 season and assigned him to the Pawtucket Red Sox. On May 19, 2005, the Red Sox placed reserve catcher Doug Mirabelli on the 15-day DL prior to the interleague series opener with the Atlanta Braves, and the Red Sox purchased the contract of Wooten to replace him. At this time, Wooten had seven home runs and 27 RBI in 39 games for Pawtucket and was hitting .225 (34-for-151) when he got the call. He appeared in just one game, replacing Jason Varitek in the late innings of a blowout against the Toronto Blue Jays on May 26, before returning to the minor leagues for the rest of the season. It turned out to be his last major league appearance.\n\nHe signed a minor league contract with the Minnesota Twins at the beginning of the 2006 season and played for their Triple-A affiliate, the Rochester Red Wings, batting .253. He then signed with the San Diego Padres in 2007, where he began the year with the San Antonio Missions, their Double-A affiliate. He was released on July 17, then played in three games with the non-affiliated St. Paul Saints before the New York Mets bought out his contract. He was released by the Mets on May 3, 2008, and quickly re-signed with the Padres. He became a free agent at the end of the season, but went unsigned to end his playing career.\n\nAfter his playing career ended, Wooten joined the Padres organization as an instructor. In 2010, he served as hitting coach of the short-season Eugene Emeralds. He managed the Class-A Fort Wayne TinCaps of the Midwest League in 2011. On November 10, 2011 he was hired as manager of the Lake Elsinore Storm of the California League, the Class-A Advanced affiliate of the Padres. He remained with the Storm through the 2013 season and then was hired as hitting coach for the Double-A Chattanooga Lookouts in the Dodgers organization. In 2015 the Dodgers switched their Double-A affiliation to the Tulsa Drillers and he remained the hitting coach for them. He was promoted to hitting coach for the AAA Oklahoma City Dodgers of the Pacific Coast League in 2016. He left his position with the Dodgers after the 2017 season. \n\nWooten was employed by the Los Angeles Angels as a minor league hitting director in 2017. In the offseason, Wooten operates a baseball academy for young kids to high schoolers (and sometimes working with college players) in Plymouth, Minnesota. Following his minor league job, Wooten was promoted to the position of Assistant Major League Hitting Coach for the Los Angeles Angels prior to the 2019 season.\n\nWooten is a member of the Cedar Rapids Professional Baseball Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "1917789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917789", "title": "Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987", "text": "Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987\n\nThe Civil Rights Restoration Act, or Grove City Bill, was a US legislative act that specified that recipients of federal funds must comply with civil rights laws in all areas, not just in the particular program or activity that received federal funding. The Act was first passed by the House in June 1984 (375–32) but failed to pass in either chamber after divisions occurred within the civil rights coalition over the issue of abortion. In January 1988, the Senate accepted an amendment by Senator John Danforth (R-MO), which added \"abortion-neutral\" language to the Bill, a move opposed by the National Organization for Women but resulted in passage of the bill in both houses.\n\nThe final vote in the Senate on January 28, 1988 was 75–14 (48–0 in the Senate Democratic Caucus and 27–14 in the Senate Republican Conference) with 11 members voting present or abstaining, while the final vote in the House of Representatives on March 2, 1988 was 315–98 (242–4 in the House Democratic Caucus and 73–94 in the House Republican Conference) with 20 members voting present or abstaining. On March 16, 1988, President Ronald Reagan vetoed the bill, as he had promised to do. On March 22, 1988, the Senate overrode Reagan's veto by a vote of 73–24 (52–0 in the Senate Democratic Caucus and 21–24 in the Senate Republican Conference) with 3 members voting present or abstaining, with the House concurring on the same day by a vote of 292–133 (240–10 in the House Democratic Caucus and 52–123 in the House Republican Conference) with 7 members voting present or abstaining.\n\nReagan's veto was the first veto of a civil rights act since Andrew Johnson vetoed the Civil Rights Act of 1866. The passage of this bill thus overturned the US Supreme Court's 1984 decision in \"Grove City College v. Bell.\" It applies to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, the 1973 Rehabilitation Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act.\n"}
{"id": "1917790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917790", "title": "Protein Information Resource", "text": "Protein Information Resource\n\nThe Protein Information Resource (PIR), located at Georgetown University Medical Center (GUMC), is an integrated public bioinformatics resource to support genomic and proteomic research, and scientific studies.It contains protein sequences databases \n\nPIR was established in 1984 by the National Biomedical Research Foundation (NBRF) as a resource to assist researchers and customers in the identification and interpretation of protein sequence information. Prior to that, the NBRF compiled the first comprehensive collection of macromolecular sequences in the Atlas of Protein Sequence and Structure, published from 1964 to 1974 under the editorship of Margaret Dayhoff. Dayhoff and her research group pioneered in the development of computer methods for the comparison of protein sequences, for the detection of distantly related sequences and duplications within sequences, and for the inference of evolutionary histories from alignments of protein sequences.\n\nWinona Barker and Robert Ledley assumed leadership of the project after the death of Dayhoff in 1983. In 1999, Cathy H. Wu joined NBRF, and later on GUMC, to head the bioinformatics efforts of PIR, and has served first as Principal Investigator and, since 2001, as Director.\n\nFor four decades, PIR has provided many protein databases and analysis tools freely accessible to the scientific community, including the Protein Sequence Database (PSD), the first international database (see PIR-International), which grew out of Atlas of Protein Sequences and Structure.\n\nIn 2002, PIR – along with its international partners, EBI (European Bioinformatics Institute) and SIB (Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics) – were awarded a grant from NIH to create UniProt, a single worldwide database of protein sequence and function, by unifying the PIR-PSD, Swiss-Prot, and TrEMBL databases. , PIR offers a wide variety of resources mainly oriented to assist the propagation and standardization of protein annotation: PIRSF, iProClass, and iProLINK.\n\nThe Protein Ontology (PRO) is another popular database released by the Protein Information Resource.\n"}
{"id": "1917795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917795", "title": "Trapper Keeper (South Park)", "text": "Trapper Keeper (South Park)\n\n\"Trapper Keeper\" is the twelfth episode of the fourth season of the animated television series \"South Park\", and the 60th episode of the series overall. It originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on November 15, 2000. In the episode, a man from the future wants Cartman's new Trapper Keeper, while Mr. Garrison's kindergarten class holds an election for class president with confusing results. The Trapper Keeper storyline is an allusion to the \"Terminator\" films (1984–2019) as well as the anime movie \"Akira\" (1988). The subplot with the class president election is a parody of the 2000 United States presidential election and the controversy surrounding its outcome.\n\nWhile waiting for the school bus, Kyle shows his friends his new \"Dawson's Creek\" Trapper Keeper. He is joined by Cartman who reveals he has a special, advanced \"Dawson's Creek Trapper Keeper Ultra Keeper Futura S 2000\", which has incredibly advanced computerized features including a television, a music player with voice recognition, OnStar and the ability to automatically hybridize itself to any electronic peripheral device. Kyle accuses Cartman of having purchased it to make him envious. On the bus, a mysterious white man calling himself \"Bill Cosby\" asks about Cartman's Trapper Keeper, which the man then attempts to steal. He succeeds by buying Cartman's trust, despite Cartman saying \"I'm not supposed to have male friends over 30; I kinda got screwed over on that once.\" When \"Bill Cosby\" is caught by Officer Barbrady and Cartman, he explains his actions: the Trapper Keeper binder is destined to gain sentience and hybridize into a supercomputer to conquer the world in the future, and wipe out all traces of humanity. Cosby himself is a cyborg from the future named BSM-471, sent back in time to destroy the binder before it could rise to power; Cosby manages to destroy it, but Cartman buys another one and refuses to allow it to be destroyed.\n\nMeanwhile, Mr. Garrison has been demoted to a kindergarten teacher, and his class holds an election for class president. Kyle's brother Ike has been admitted to kindergarten two years early because of his supposed intelligence (despite not being able to speak properly). Ike is chosen by Mr. Garrison to run against a boy named Filmore, resulting in a tie that is broken by the vote of a little girl named Flora. At first, Flora can't decide whom to pick. After she picks Ike, Filmore's side demands recounts and then involves Rosie O'Donnell, who comes to protest that Filmore (her nephew) has not won. While this is happening, Stan, Kyle and Kenny accompany their robotic companion to Cartman's house to convince his mother to help them, but she goes off with Bill Cosby to have sex. Meanwhile, Cartman's Trapper Keeper integrates itself into Cartman's computer and most of his belongings, and then absorbs Cartman himself. Cartman is transformed into a giant, cybernetic blobby monster that retains most of Cartman's features, similar in style and execution to the movie \"Akira\". It kills Kenny and destroys the house, and sets off to Cheyenne Mountain to absorb the secret military base's computer. Bill Cosby warns that if the Trapper Keeper assimilates with the supercomputer at Cheyenne Mountain, it will become unstoppable.\n\nKyle sneaks into the huge Cartman-Trapper Keeper hybrid through a ventilation pipe; but before he can disable it, the Trapper Keeper incapacitates him. Rosie O'Donnell appears in front of the Trapper Keeper and yells at it for blocking the road. The Trapper Keeper then absorbs her, but fusing with her ultimately makes the behemoth sick. Kyle is freed and disconnects the Trapper Keeper's CPU, and the beast returns to its powerless state. The destruction of the Trapper Keeper causes Bill Cosby to disappear, and Stan tells Cartman to thank Kyle, who just saved his life. Cartman starts to thank Kyle just as the episode ends, but the credits roll before he can finish and cuts him off at \"Kyle...\" As for the kindergarteners, after countless lawyers come in and legal forms and endless meetings, Filmore concedes because \"this game is stupid\". With Ike as president, the kids decide to go fingerpaint, much to Mr. Garrison's delight.\n\nThe episode is a parody of the controversy surrounding the 2000 United States presidential election on November 7, 2000. State results tallied on election night gave 246 electoral votes to Republican candidate George W. Bush and 255 to Democratic nominee Al Gore, with New Mexico (5), Oregon (7), and Florida (25) too close to call that evening. Mathematically, Florida's 25 electoral votes became the key to an election win, while both New Mexico and Oregon were called in favor of Gore over the next few days. After an intense recount process, Bush was officially declared the winner of Florida's electoral votes and as a result, the entire presidential election. There was disagreement over who won Florida's 25 electoral votes, the vote recount, and the uncommon situation that the winner received fewer popular votes than the loser.\n\n\"Trapper Keeper\" was written by \"South Park\" co-creator Trey Parker when he, Matt Stone, and a group of friends visited Lake Powell. It is one of the many \"South Park\" episodes that parodies a current event. The main plot of the episode involving the Trapper Keeper was written before the election, but the subplot is a parody of the controversy surrounding the election's outcome. \"Trapper Keeper\" did not originally feature the election storyline, only a subplot about Ike attending his first day of kindergarten.\n\nParker and Stone said the presidential election controversy was \"kids' stuff,\" and that is what they were trying to show with the episode. Stone commented that \"it makes perfect sense because everything is just so childish anyway, the way people are acting about the election and the way candidates are. Usually you try to satirize something by taking it to the extreme. But it was actually kind of hard to satirize because it's just so stupid you can't even take it to an extreme.\" Anne Garefino, executive producer of \"South Park\", said that when they applied the presidential election process to kindergarten, it \"finally [made] sense.\" Stone added that the storyline \"kind of wrote itself. When you put this same situation in with kindergartners, everyone's actions kind of make a lot more sense.\"\n\nThe voices of the kindergarteners were provided by actual children, including the son of one of the producers on the show. Parker and Stone said they had fun recording the kindergarten scenes, because \"instead of adults doing the voices of the kids, it was so funny to hear a little kid actually doing it.\" The episode was completed at approximately nine in the morning on the day it aired, November 15, 2000, only days after the election was over. Parker and Stone worked with a team of 70 animators and computer engineers to get the episode finished in time.\n\nThe main plot of \"Trapper Keeper\" is a parody of the \"Terminator\" films. The episode also features references to \"\" and \"Akira\". The Trapper Keeper's ability to take on the physical forms of the various things it has consumed is a reference to the eponymous entity in the 1958 version of the movie \"The Blob\".\n\nThe \"New York Post\"s Andrea Peyser analyzed the episode's references to the 2000 United States presidential election. She commented that in \"Trapper Keeper\", the election of class president ends in a deadlock, while in Florida, the election for president was \"hopelessly deadlocked.\" She went on to say that in \"South Park\", the school \"rousts a sick kid from his hospital bed\" to vote by absentee ballot, and in Florida, \"officials roust people from the cemetery to vote by absentee ballot.\" Peyser added that Rosie O'Donnell appears in \"Trapper Keeper\" and plans to gather lawyers, media and her friends to \"help settle the race the way she sees fit,\" while in Florida, O'Donnell, Harvey Weinstein, Gloria Steinem, Bianca Jagger \"and other celebrities signed a petition demanding a revote in Palm Beach County, ensuring the race would go to Gore.\" One of the kindergarteners is named Flora, referencing the state Florida that was undecided in the election.\n\nAlan Sepinwall and Matt Zoller Seitz of \"The Star-Ledger\" reviewed the episode as \"terrific, especially the vote for kindergarten class president, and the recount-recount-recount bit.\" Sepinwall added that he was \"pretty amazed myself that the \"South Park\" guys were able to put together such a sharp election satire so quickly. I called up Comedy Central and found out that they do all the animation in-house on computers that allow them to work much faster than shows like \"The Simpsons\", which contract out all the animation to firms in Korea that take months to complete an episode.\" Bill Gibron of DVD Verdict described \"Trapper Keeper\" as \"a clever attack on the entire Florida voting debacle in the 2000 election—the show's take on the entire childish nature of the fighting is fantastic. As a \"Terminator\" knock-off 'Trapper Keeper' is a lot of fun. But adding in the political element really increases the deliciously derogatory tone.\"\n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson characterized \"Trapper Keeper\" as \"a clever riff\" on \"Terminator\" and the controversy of the 2000 election. He thought both plots \"work really well, as the show tosses in lots of cool little moments. ... It's funny and smart, and a good [episode].\" IGN's David Galindo called the episode \"great,\" and \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\"s Lisa Davis named Mr. Garrison's line \"You're all acting like a bunch of kids!\" the \"best line of the week.\"\n\n\"Trapper Keeper\" originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on November 15, 2000. Though a rerun of the episode aired in the middle of the night on WPIX because of offensive content, a \"The Star-Ledger\" critic did not think it was \"that dirty to begin with.\" The episode was included in the UMD \"South Park: When Technology Attacks\" that was released on October 11, 2005 for the PlayStation Portable. Other episodes included in the collection were \"Best Friends Forever,\" \"Cancelled,\" \"Simpsons Already Did It,\" and \"Towelie.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917799", "title": "Hans Poelzig", "text": "Hans Poelzig\n\nHans Poelzig (30 April 1869 – 14 June 1936) was a German architect, painter and set designer.\n\nPoelzig was born in Berlin in 1869 to Countess Clara Henrietta Maria Poelzig (daughter of Alexander von Hanstein, Count of Pölzig and Beiersdorf) while she was married to George Acland Ames, an Englishman. Uncertain of his paternity, Ames refused to acknowledge Hans as his son and consequently he was brought up by a local choirmaster and his wife. In 1899 he married Maria Voss with whom they had four children.\n\nHans Poelzig was buried in the Old Cemetery in Berlin-Wannsee.\n\nOn 18 November 2015, Friedrichstadt-Palast Berlin inaugurated a memorial at Friedrichstraße 107 dedicated to the theatre's founders, Max Reinhardt, Hans Poelzig and Erik Charell. \n\nIn 1903 he became a teacher and director at the Breslau Academy of Art and Design (Kunst- und Gewerbeschule Breslau; today Wrocław, Poland). From 1920-1935 he taught at the Technical University of Berlin (Technische Hochschule Berlin).\nDirector of the Architecture Department of the Prussian Academy of Arts in Berlin.\n\nAfter finishing his architectural education around the turn of the century, Poelzig designed many industrial buildings. He designed the 51.2 m tall Upper Silesia Tower in Posen (today Poznań) for an industrial fair in 1911. It later became a water tower. He was appointed city architect of Dresden in 1916. He was an influential member of the Deutscher Werkbund.\n\nPoelzig was also known for his distinctive 1919 interior redesign of the Berlin Grosses Schauspielhaus for Weimar impresario Max Reinhardt, and for his vast architectural set designs for the 1920 UFA film production of \"\". (Poelzig mentored Edgar Ulmer on that film; when Ulmer directed the 1934 film noir Universal Studios production of \"The Black Cat\", he returned the favor by naming the architect-Satanic-high-priest villain character \"Hjalmar Poelzig\", played by Boris Karloff.)\n\nWith his Weimar architect contemporaries like Bruno Taut and Ernst May, Poelzig's work developed through Expressionism and the New Objectivity in the mid-1920s before arriving at a more conventional, economical style. In 1927 he was one of the exhibitors in the first International Style project, the Weissenhof Estate in Stuttgart. In the 1920s he ran the \"Studio Poelzig\" in partnership with his wife Marlene (Nee Moeschke) (1894–1985). Poelzig also designed the 1929 Broadcasting House in the Berlin suburb of Charlottenburg, a landmark of architecture, and Cold War and engineering history.\n\nPoelzig's single best-known building is the enormous and legendary I.G. Farben Building, completed in 1931 as the administration building for IG Farben in Frankfurt am Main, now known as the Poelzig Building at Goethe University. In March 1945 the building was occupied by American Allied forces under Eisenhower, became his headquarters, and remained in American hands until 1995. Some of his designs that were never built included one for the Palace of the Soviets and one for the League of Nations headquarters at Geneva.\n\nIn 1933 Poelzig served as the interim director of the \"Vereinigte Staatsschulen für freie und angewandete Kunst\" (United State School for Fine and Applied Art), after the expulsion of founding director Bruno Paul by the National Socialists. Poelzig died in Berlin in June 1936, shortly before his planned departure for Ankara.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917803", "title": "Bečva", "text": "Bečva\n\nThe Bečva () is a river in the Czech Republic. It is a left tributary of the river Morava. The Bečva is created by two source streams, the Northern Rožnovská Bečva (whose valley separates the Moravian-Silesian Beskids in the North from the Vsetínské vrchy in the South) and the Southern Vsetínská Bečva (whose valley separates the Vsetínské vrchy in the North from the Javorníky in the South). It is 61.6 km long, and its basin area is 1,613 km.\n"}
{"id": "1917807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917807", "title": "1998 Wandhama massacre", "text": "1998 Wandhama massacre\n\nThe 1998 Wandhama Ganderbal massacre refers to the killings of 23 Kashmiri Hindus in the town of Wandhama in Jammu and Kashmir on 25 January 1998. The victims included four children, nine women and 10 men. The Lashkar-e-Taiba was blamed for perpetrating the massacre.\n\nWandhama is a small town near Ganderbal in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in India. The state had a large minority population of Hindu Kashmiri Hindus, over a half of a million of whom fled from the Kashmir valley to the Hindu-majority Jammu part of the state after militants began carrying out a systematic campaign of assassinations and intimidation against them.\n\nOn 25 January 1998, 23 Kashmiri Hindus living in the village of Wandhama were killed by unidentified gunmen. According to the testimony of one of the survivors of the incident, a 14-year-old Hindu boy named Vinod Kuman Dhar, the gunmen came to their house dressed like Indian Army soldiers, had tea with them, waiting for a radio message indicating that all Hindu families in the village had been covered. After a brief conversation they rounded up all the members of the Hindu households and then summarily gunned them down with Kalashnikov rifles. The massacre was allegedly committed by Abdul Hamid Gada of the Hizbul Mujahideen and was timed to coincide with the Shab-e-Qadar, the holiest night of the month of Ramzan, when believers stay awake until dawn. Gada was subsequently shot dead by Indian security forces in 2000. After the massacre.\n\nThe day after the incident, agitating Kashmiri Hindus clashed with police in the Capital, New Delhi, when they broke barricades and tried to force their way to the National Human Rights Commission. At least 11 Kashmiri Hindus were injured when they were hit by water cannon.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral joined the mourners in Kashmir's Wandhama village on 28 January. The Prime Minister was accompanied by Governor General K V Krishna Rao, Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah and Union Minister for Environment Saifuddin Soz. He said:\n\nThere were protests in several refugee camps where Kashmiri Hindus have been interred since their ethnic cleansing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917819", "title": "California Collegiate Athletic Association", "text": "California Collegiate Athletic Association\n\nThe California Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA) is a collegiate athletic conference at the Division II level of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). All of its current members are public universities, and upon UC San Diego's departure on July 1, 2020, all are members of the California State University system.\n\nIt was founded in December 1938 and began competition in 1939. The interim commissioner of the CCAA is Mitch Cox. CCAA offices are located in San Ramon, California. The CCAA is the most successful conference in NCAA Division II, as its former and current members have won 153 National Championships.\n\n\nThe CCAA sponsors seven sports for women and six sports for men. Cross country, soccer and volleyball are fall sports; basketball is a winter sport; golf, outdoor track & field, softball, and baseball are spring sports. Throughout the years, CCAA teams have won 153 NCAA championships in their sports, which is best among all Division II conferences.\n\nThe CCAA has a Student-Athlete Advisory Committee, which is made up of student-athletes from each member institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917835", "title": "Jacksdale", "text": "Jacksdale\n\nJacksdale is a small village in the local government district of Ashfield, part of the English county of Nottinghamshire. It was formerly a mining village. The population of the ward within the Ashfield Council was 3,158 as taken at the 2011 census. Lying close to the Derbyshire border, Jacksdale is the most westerly place within the county. Neighbouring villages include Selston, Brinsley, Pye Hill and Ironville. Jacksdale and Westwood are interlinking villages, although houses in Westwood are usually referred to as being newer, with 86 per cent of the housing in Jacksdale built before 1918.\n\nJacksdale consisted of only three farms in 1811, but it emerged as the shopping and amenity centre for both villages after the arrival of the railway.\n\nJacksdale's pit was first sunk in 1874 by James Oakes & Co. Its entrance was sited at Selston Road at an \"exposed\" section of the Nottinghamshire coalfield. Pye Hill pit, as it was known, was actually an amalgamation of three individual pits sunk by different mining companies, Jacksdale's pit was renamed \"Pye Hill No 2\", No 1 being Selston/Underwood and No 3 New Selston.\n\nPye Hill pit was closed in 1985. The spoil heaps have since been made safe and landscaped for walking, providing access to nearby Jubilee Hill. The nature reserve there demonstrates colonising vegetation and scrub.\n\nSelston Parish Council, which covers Jacksdale and Westwood, meets on the last Tuesday of the month. The local member of Parliament is Lee Anderson (Conservative) for the Ashfield constituency.\n\nLocal amenities include a post office, a supermarket, a chemist, hair salons and barbers, an estate agency and lettings agency, a hardware and motor parts outlet, a repair garage, butchers, a newsagent, a library, the Miners' Welfare, a tearoom, a primary and nursery school, a Pentecostal church, a Chinese restaurant, a community centre, a fish and chip shop, dentists' and doctors' surgeries, care homes, and a garden centre.\n\nSeveral local community groups for adults, children and special interests are shared with Westwood. The Anglican St. Mary's Church, Westwood, which also covers Jacksdale, is a daughter church of St. Helen's Church, Selston.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917837", "title": "Rosalind (harness horse)", "text": "Rosalind (harness horse)\n\nRosalind was a champion trotting mare who won the 1936 Hambletonian Stakes, set two world records (an individual filly-and-mare record of 1:56¾ in 1938 and a 1939 team mark of 1:58¼ with Greyhound) and was elected to the Harness Racing Hall of Fame in 1973. Foaled on May 5, 1933, she was sired by Scotland (1:59¼); her dam was Alma Lee (2:04¾), whose sire was Lee Worthy (2:02½). Scotland was sired by Peter Scott, who was sired by Peter The Great, who was sired by Pilot Medium, who was sired by Happy Medium, who was sired by Hambletonian 10. Alma Lee was also a great-great-great-great-granddaughter of Hambletonian 10.\n\nOwned by Gib White and bred, trained and driven by his father, Ben White, Rosalind won six of ten races as a two-year-old. She won seven of eight starts at three, including the Hambletonian at Good Time Park in Goshen, New York. The filly's fastest mile in the race (the Hambletonian was contested in heats at the time, both of which she won) was 2:01¾, a stakes record. The following year, Rosalind won three of her four starts and set a world record of 1:56 3/4. As a six-year-old in 1939, she and Greyhound (both driven by Sep Palin) lowered the world team-to-pole (tandem) record to 1:59 at Syracuse and 1:58¼ at Indianapolis. Rosalind won twenty-four races during her career, finished second seven times and third once.\n\nAs a broodmare she gave birth to six fillies, the best-known of whom was Deanna (2:02¾). Rosalind died at age 17 of cancer at Hanover Shoe Farms in Hanover, Pennsylvania, and is buried there. She, Ben and Gib White were the subjects of Marguerite Henry's 1950 \"Born to Trot\", illustrated by Wesley Dennis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917860", "title": "Dreghorn", "text": "Dreghorn\n\nDreghorn is a village in North Ayrshire, Scotland, to the east of Irvine town centre, on the old main road from Irvine to Kilmarnock. It is sited on a ridge between two rivers. As archaeological excavations near the village centre have found a significant neolithic settlement provisionally dated to around 3500BC, as well as medieval structures, scholars have suggested that Dreghorn could be Britain's oldest continuously inhabited village. Both Irvine and Dreghorn have grown in size and they are now separated by the Annick Valley Park, which incorporates a footpath and National Cycle Route 73 on the route of the disused Irvine to Busby railway line.\n\nThe Church of Scotland Dreghorn and Springside Parish Church, at the centre of the village, dates from 1780. Its octagonal plan which is unusual in Scotland was produced by the church's principal benefactor, Archibald Montgomerie, 11th Earl of Eglinton. The village's most famous inhabitant, John Boyd Dunlop, was born at a Dreghorn farm in 1840. When practicing as a veterinary surgeon in Belfast, in 1887 he invented pneumatic tyres for bicycles.\n\nThe village of Dreghorn lies east of the centre of Irvine, North Ayrshire, on a ridge between Annick Water to its immediate north, and the River Irvine further to the south. The old main road from Irvine to Kilmarnock (now the B7081) formed the original village street along the ridge. As Townfoot, it rises to the high point of the ridge at the Parish Church in the centre of the village, then continues as Main Street east along the ridge, down to the nearby village of Springside which is also in Dreghorn Parish.\nThe Annick Water runs close to the north of the village, along the edge of the Annick Valley Park. Woodland and open green spaces, including playing fields, separate Dreghorn from Irvine New Town, with the district of Broomlands adjoining the park. The disused Irvine to Busby railway line, which runs along this park, has been converted to a footpath, and forms National Cycle Route 73 as part of the Irvine New Town Trail.\nAt a crossroads immediately to the east of the church, Station Brae runs north down the hill to the former Dreghorn railway station, and the B730 runs south towards Drybridge, crossing the River Irvine at Holmsford Bridge. Here it crosses under the A71 road, which runs as a modern bypass along the Irvine Valley to the south of the village. A link from the B730 joins the A71 at a roundabout at Corsehill, providing expressway access from Dreghorn to Irvine town centre, and eastwards to Kilmarnock.\n\nDreghorn was the site of a significant neolithic settlement, and subsequently a medieval village: archaeological evidence has been provisionally dated to around 3500BC, suggesting that Dreghorn could be Britain's oldest continuously inhabited village. In advance of a development of new housing to the north of properties on the current Main Street, preliminary testing found features including an ancient well.\n\nThe excavations were carried out between November 2003 and April 2004 at a site on the slope from the ridge down towards Annick Water. The housing development has since been completed, as Station Brae Gardens. Neolithic features included pits and post holes with remains including fragments of some Early Neolithic carinated bowls and larger amounts of Late Neolithic Grooved ware. Stone items were made from local and imported materials including flint, Arran pitchstone and chert, and included scrapers, arrowheads and cutting tools.\nThree parallel rows of post holes indicated a rectangular structure by , probably a timber hall similar to the Neolithic long house found at Balbridie. Smaller post holes and stake holes define eight to twelve round or oval structures, possibly round houses, as well as six gully-defined structures with numerous stake-holes. A large oval feature, approximately by , contained heavily retired pottery shards and is thought likely to have been a kiln. Possible ritualistic landscape features include a massive post-pit and post holes or pits forming arcs. At the west edge of the site, adjacent to Station Brae, part of a probable palisade was found. Medieval finds included a trackway, ditches, pits and remains of numerous structures including kilns and a diameter wattle and daub walled granary.\n\nJohn Boyd Dunlop was born at a Dreghorn farm on 5 February 1840. He qualified as a veterinary surgeon at the Dick Vet in Edinburgh and set up practice in Belfast, where he also invented a pneumatic tyres for bicycles in October 1887. The principle had been patented by Robert William Thomson in 1847, but it was Dunlop's invention that made a success of the idea.\n\nMaid Morville's mound was located to the east of the B730, just north of Holmsford Bridge before it crosses the River Irvine. The name commemorated the tragic drowning of a member of the de Morville family, who were the overlords of the baillerie of Cunninghame. The mound was destroyed by construction of the earthworks of the expressway. 'Maid Morville Avenue' still exists to commemorate the event. Locally the mound was known as 'Marble Hill', a corruption of 'Morville's Hill'. There is also a 'Marble Avenue' nearby.\nDreghorn Station, at the foot of Station Brae by the River Annick, provided access to rail services between Irvine and Kilmarnock. It closed in 1964 and the railway is now a public footpath and woodland.\n\nExcavations of the Neolithic site suggest ritualistic features, and early Christians including the Culdees often took over pagan religious sites for their churches. Saint Brendan influenced the area in the 6th century. It seems that relics of his fellow monk Barrintus were venerated at Dreghorn church, though this could date from a much later period. When Kilwinning Abbey was established around 1171, fourteen parishes including Dreghorn came under its control. One of the monks would have been given charge of Dreghorn parish and the church lands.\n\nThe Church of Scotland parish church at the top of Station Brae, dating from 1780, has an unusual octagonal plan. At one time, the church was known locally as the \"Threepenny\" after the 12-sided Threepence coin.\n\nFollowing the Scottish Reformation, maintenance of the small rectangular church, the manse and churchyard, as well as payment of the minister's stipend, was vested in local landowners, the Heritors of the Parish. After years of complaints over repairs, in February 1777 the minister, Mr Tod. petitioned the Presbytery in Irvine that \"a visitation be made with assistance of skilled tradesmen that the church (in Dreghorn) be pulled down and a new one built\" on the same site. The Presbytery agreed in March 1777, then in 1779 they petitioned the principal Heritor, and patron of the church, Archibald Montgomerie, 11th Earl of Eglinton, to \"give in a plan of a New Kirk\". The heritors agreed in March 1780 to commence building work on the basis of his plan, in the shape of an octagon: he may have seen similar churches during his recent years spent in Europe.\n\nWhen the Parishes of Dreghorn and Perceton were united, Dreghorn and Perceton church owned the land surrounding the church (called 'The Glebe'). A current circular cul-de-sac called The Glebe commemorates this fact. The kirk is now called Dreghorn and Springside Parish Church.\n\nIn the Disruption of 1843, the Free Church of Scotland broke away. The entry for Dreghorn in Groome's \"Ordnance Gazetteer\" for 1882-4 describes the village as having \"a Free Church mission station and an Evangelical Union chapel; and Dreghorn Free church is at Perceton village.\"\n\nPerceton and Dreghorn Free Church, at the east end of Main Street in Dreghorn, was built in 1877 for £4,000. It later became the Church of Scotland's Perceton and Dreghorn Parish Church, but eventually congregation numbers fell, so the parishes merged and the church closed in 1992. A Threatened Building Survey recorded photographs of the building in 1996.\n\nThe Sun Life Corporation of Japan bought the building for £50,000. In 1996 they demolished it carefully and shipped the materials to Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, for reconstruction, at a cost of £250,000. This included the pulpit and church organ, and every block of masonry was numbered for rebuilding. The Hotel \"Sunlife Garden\" wedding complex, incorporating the reconstructed church as its central feature, was opened with a ceremony on 2 July 1999.\n\nDreghorn's historical main industries were farming and coal mining. All of the coal mines around Dreghorn were closed by the early 1980s. Dreghorn is still surrounded on two sides by farm land. The new communities of Broomlands and Bourtreehill cover the sites of some former mines.\n\nDreghorn Primary School, on Main Street, had a school roll of 270 pupils in 2013, with 21 teachers. Greenwood Academy secondary school at the west end of the village serves several areas of Irvine as well as Dreghorn. In September 2013, its school roll was 1494 pupils, and it had 113 teachers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917862", "title": "Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project", "text": "Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project\n\nThe Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project (BDFFP), originally called the Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems Project is a large-scale ecological experiment looking at the effects of habitat fragmentation on tropical rainforest; it is one of the most expensive biology experiments ever run. The experiment, which was established in 1979 is located near Manaus, in the Brazilian Amazon. The project is jointly managed by the Smithsonian Institution and the Brazilian Institute for Research in the Amazon (INPA).\n\nThe project was initiated in 1979 by Thomas Lovejoy to investigate the SLOSS debate. Initially named the \"Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems Project\", the project created forest fragments of sizes , , and . Data were collected prior to the creation of the fragments and studies of the effects of fragmentation now exceed 25 years.\n\nAs of October 2010 562 publications and 143 graduate dissertations and theses had emerged from the project.\n\nThe Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project, commonly known as the BDFFP, was born out of the SLOSS (single large or several small reserves of equal area) debate in the mid - 1970s about the application of the theory of island biogeography to conservation planning. The debate determined that the species richness and the rate of growth increase as the area of a reserve increases. It also determined that the shape of a reserve is very important to the species diversity. Reserves with a large surface area to volume ratio tend to be affected more by edge effects than reserves with a small surface area to volume ratio. The distance between reserves and the habitat surrounding the reserves (the matrix) can affect species richness and diversity as well.\n\nDespite the seeming logic of these ideas, ecologists questioned the results of the SLOSS debate due to the lack of a critical body of evidence on the subject. Many ecologists began to conduct studies and experiments on fragmented ecosystems to fill this gap, including Tom Lovejoy, who designed a large-scale experiment that studied the effects of different sizes of fragmentation to animals, plants, and ecological processes. Lovejoy’s objective throughout the experiment was to gain insight on the effects of habitat fragmentation on species in tropical rainforests. He called it the Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems Project (the name was later changed to the Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project). \n\nIn 1979, the National Institute of Amazonian Research (INPA) endorsed Lovejoy’s experiment. Later, Lovejoy teamed up with Robert Bierregaard to assist him with the project by assigning him the responsibility of conducting all of the fieldwork. The two ecologists started the project in rainforests on the outskirts of Manaus, Brazil. The BDFFP is a collaborative project between the Brazilian National Institute for Amazonian Research and the Smithsonian Institution. The BDFFP would become one of the most important studies of fragmentation in tropical forests because it is the only long running study with data before fragments were created with the original data being from the continuous forest.\n\nThe study of habitat fragmentation found its roots early, with Aldo Leopold’s ideas on edge effect and Alfred Russel Wallace’s and E. O. Wilson’s studies and models of island biogeography laying a foundation for the field (Laurance and Bierregaard 1997). These concepts offer potential applicable and hypothetico-deductive value for the study of forest fragmentation and have inspired debates about habitat reserve design.\n\nGenerally speaking, the theory of island biogeography represents a collection of interwoven ideas (Harris 1984), describing patterns of floral and faunal communities on marine islands. It models fundamental processes such as dispersal, diversity and population dynamics of islands with regards to their area and distance from other islands or the mainland. Theoretically, forest fragments take on the characteristics of habitat islands in proportion to their degree of and length of time of isolation (Harris 1984). Island biogeography theory and lessons learned from true-island biogeography provide a basis for developing a management strategy and addressing specific decision variables, such as reserve patch size, distribution, placement and protective measures (Harris 1984). Nevertheless, a notable difference between oceanic islands and terrestrial islands, or fragments, is the existence of land surrounding or between the fragments, referred to as the matrix. The impacts of use and management of this space is a continued subject of study.\n\nObservations of edge effects on habitats are also important, if not integral, to the study of fragmentation effects. A slew of changes in habitat and trophic interactions have been observed to magnify as distance from habitat edge decreases, such as nest predation, decreased humidity and soil moisture, sunlight, decreased species richness and changes in species constitution. The degree of these impacts on fragments continues to be studied. Due to the generally high ratio of edge to habitat area in fragments, edges are presumed to have detrimental consequences for the organisms that inhabit forest fragments.\n\nThese concepts have largely inspired the SLOSS (single large or several small) reserve size debate, which the Minimal Critical Size of Ecosystem Project (now known as the BDFFP) attempts to address. The SLOSS debate is an ongoing interdisciplinary discussion in which the scientific community attempts to understand and weigh the pros and cons of different reserve size and distribution, for successful ecosystem conservation: single large reserve, or several small ones? Increasing and widespread habitat loss and fragmentation, along with the SLOSS debate, have led to the questions the BDFFP originally sought to answer. Overall, Lovejoy’s goal in establishing the project was to determine necessary reserve size and placement for successful habitat and species conservation, hence the original name of the project. According to Bierregaard's book, \"Lessons from Amazonia\", Lovejoy worked off of the Island Biogeography Theory and asked three key questions:\n\n\nSince then, studies conducted on the BDFFP site have varied enormously in terms of their principal goals and hypotheses (Laurance and Bierregaard 1997). Along with reserve size, placement and distribution, it is also important to understand and properly manage the links between habitat fragmentation and ecosystem persistence (Bierregaard 2001). Studies on edge effects, extinction rates, biotic and abiotic interactions, mortality factors, soil quality and more performed on this site address fragmentation effects on biodiversity and other ecological changes. Other dimensions influencing ecosystems are also studied, such as economic and human factors. Many studies in BDFFP also attempt to find ways to apply research to restoration, conservation and management practices of tropical forests. The original core question of minimum ecosystem reserve size has initiated an incredible variety of research that continues to grow and diversify.\n\nThe BDFFP spans approximately 1,000 km² of the Brazilian Amazon region located 70 km north of Manaus, Brazil in South America. This particular area of South America is famous for its tropical forests and climate, as well as high levels of wildlife diversity.\n\nThe BDFFP Area of Relevant Ecological Interest, which contains the study areas, is divided between the municipalities of Manaus (3.61%) and Rio Preto da Eva (96.39%). It has a total area of .\nThe research area is about north of the city of Manaus.\n\nOn average, the Amazon Basin ranges from 1,900 to 2,500 millimeters of rainfall annually, while the mean annual temperature is 26 °C with a prominent dry season from June through October. Another distinct feature of the forests in the BDFFP is the canopy, which can reach from 30 to 37 meters with some emergents reaching up to 55 meters. These forests, dominated primarily by palms in the understory, are home to over 1200 species of trees in at least 64 families.\n\nThe BDFFP reserves are found in non-flooded tropical lowland rainforest where soils are nutrient-poor and the topography ranges from 50 to 150 m in elevation. Although the area is relatively flat, it includes three large cattle ranges and contains 11 forest fragments, ranging from 1-100 hectares, surrounded by continuous forest that acts as an experimental controls (Laurance 2011).\n\nFor detailed images of the study area, visit the INPA maps\n\nIn the early 1980s, clearing and burning led to fragment isolation of about 80 – 650 meters from the surrounding intact forest, a procedure that was continued several times throughout the experiment due to successful regrowth of secondary forests (Laurance 2011). The final reserve isolation took place in 1990 with the successful felling and burning of a 200-meter-wide strip around the Dimona reserve.\n\nAn important characteristic of the diversity of the Amazon Basin is that many species are rare or distributed erratically throughout the Amazonian forest. This introduces an phenomenon known as the \"sample effect\", which suggests that the absence of species from the experimental fragments may be due to the fact that they were not present during fragment creation rather than from vanishment (Laurance 2011). This effect is essential to understanding the effects of forest fragmentation because small fragments cannot sustain large populations due to competition for resources and habitat loss. Therefore, in the experiment, it is unlikely that species not present at the beginning of the experiment will appear in these smaller fragments. Some organisms, however, remain stable and even favor disturbed areas. Leaf bryophytes, wandering spiders and frogs are among the species that remain stable while gap-favoring species include hummingbirds, butterflies, and lianas. Because the matrix surrounding isolated fragments is not completely inhospitable to some species, it is important to understanding how native wildlife can use these human-altered habitats as corridors for dispersal or reproduction.\n\nThere has been a broad scope of studies performed on the BDFFP site focusing on many elements of fragmentation effects on organisms and habitat conditions. Subjects from a range of biota are studied, including trees and other flora, microorganisms, and a variety vertebrate and invertebrates. Soil chemistry and development, as well as human and environmental factors in fragments have also been researched. Some notable studies performed on the BDFFP site are summarized below.\n\nEdge effects is a general term for the impacts of different habitats at or near the barrier where they meet, the \"edge\". They are an important factor in many habitats, especially when it comes to fragmented habitats, and are studied extensively in the field. One major study performed on this subject was \"Edge-related changes in environment and plant responses due to forest fragmentation in central Amazonia\" by Valerie Kapos, Elisa Wandelli, Jose Luis Camargo, and Gislene Ganade. The following was summarized from pages 33 to 44 of \"Tropical Forest Remnants: Ecology, Management and Conservation of Fragmented Communities\" by W.F. Laurance and R.O. Bierregaard.\n\nA major change brought about by habitat fragmentation is an increase in the proportion of edge exposed to other habitats, and the importance of this change depends to a degree on the contrast between the fragmented habitat and the matrix in which it occurs. Edge effects play an important role in the regional environment as well, with the Amazon forests helping maintain hydrological cycles through their roles in evapotranspiration and soil protection. Depending on the extent to which the influence of desiccating edge-effect conditions from the clearings (matrix) penetrates into the forest and on how plants respond to it, forest fragments might be expected to evapotranspire more than equivalent areas of continuous forest. Therefore, this research focused on assessing the edge related gradients of factors that affect evapotranspiration in forest fragments, and plant responses to them. Changes in edge effects with time were also studied.\n\nTemperature, vapor pressure deficit (VPD), and soil moisture were the factors surveyed. The study compared measurements made at different distances along transects from the western isolated edge toward the center of the reserve with measurements made in control areas more than 500m from the forest edge. Understory plant/water relations were monitored in dry seasons, soil moisture measurements were made over ten months, understory plant distributions were measured, microclimatic and leaf expansion studies were done, as well as vegetation structure studies, all between 1988 and 1990.\n\nIn both wet and dry seasons, soil moisture in the edge transects was similar to that in the control areas except at the edge itself and in the region between 40 and 80 m from edge. Soil water potentials below wilting point occurred in the forest during dry season, but the driest points were not necessarily near the edge and no evidence of prolonged drought was found. Thus, any edge drought effects on plants must be due to combined effects of reduced soil moisture and higher atmospheric demand exceeding the supplying power of vascular systems, rather ecosystem-level water shortage.\n\nPlant responses: For leaf expansion in \"Duguetia\", there was no difference in the rate of leaf expansion between plants in edge zones and those in control areas. When looking at whether canopy trees close their stomata to reduce water loss as a response to the changed environment, they found no difference between these two locations. They looked at the same response in understory plants, and found the results might suggest that the understory species did have greater water use efficiencies near the forest edge. This pattern could be explained by either greater mixing of air from outside the forest with the understory air or lower decomposition rates, or both, near the edge. Vegetation structure was also analyzed. They found clear edge-related gradients in environmental factors gave way to more complex patterns, which suggested some influence of the edge. Although there was little evidence of edge effecting plant water status, distribution of at least one understory species suggests proximity to edge is disadvantageous.\n\nSome general implications suggested by this study are edge effects on environmental variables become more complex as edge ages. These complex patterns and plant responses to them are likely strongly influenced by frequent gaps near edges, changing vegetation structure and continuing to alter the nature and extent of edge effects. Management decisions based on edge effects should incorporate understanding of the mechanisms behind those effects, and long term studies are necessary to determine those mechanisms and their changes over time.\n\nMany studies have been conducted about the fragmentation effects on vertebrates and invertebrates, including amphibians, insects, mammals and birds. This study, “Understory birds and dynamic habitat mosaics in Amazonian rainforests” by Richard Bierregaard and Philip C. Stouffer is a long term experiment studying birds in a dynamic system of small forests remnants surrounded by pasture or abandoned pasture undergoing secondary succession. The following was summarized from pages 138 to 155 of \"Tropical Forest Remnants: Ecology, Management and Conservation of Fragmented Communities\" by W.F. Laurance and R.O. Bierregaard.\n\nWithin a series of 1 and 10 hectare and one 100 hectare fragments, mark-recapture program was conducted focusing on understory birds to reveal changes in species composition and activity level. Analysis of broadly defined ecological guilds was performed, including nectar feeders, insectivores, and frugivores. They related changes in the fragment avifauna to remnant size, time since isolation, and the nature of the surrounding vegetation.\n\nFor insectivores, abundance and species richness of most frequently captured birds declined significantly in post-isolation reserves. The obligate army ant-following species disappeared completely from 1 and 10 ha isolates within 2 years of isolation. As with insectivores, frugivores showed significant declines in capture rates after isolation and four species showed effects of time since isolation. Nectarivores, such as understory hummingbirds, proved to be less vulnerable to fragmentation than insectivores and frugivores.\n\nBirds play an integral role in tropical rainforest ecosystems and are likely the best studied group of organisms in these forests, so they provide an excellent opportunity to understand faunal responses to habitat fragmentation. This study identified both particularly sensitive and insensitive groups of species. These are first steps in developing understanding needed to minimize effects humans are having on tropical rainforest ecosystems.\n\nWhat started out as a five-person initiative slowly gained momentum as funding for the BDFFP grew and became a successful midsize research project operated by a larger staff. This growth has allowed for continuous large-scale inventories of species’ response to fragmentation, which is a main focal point of research concerning future conservation.\n\nOne of the major advantages of this study is that it has been conducted very consistently over a long period of time. Experimentation over several decades allows for the occurrence of natural events, such as El Niño droughts, which are important facilitators of natural disturbance that could affect fragmentation.\n\nMuch more needs to be understood about forest fragments, however. As BDFFP data suggests, even small fragments can take centuries to stabilize their floristic composition and carbon storage after experiencing dramatic ecological changes (Laurance 2011).\n\nThe fundamental goals drawn from the BDFFP experiment are to preserve larger areas of land to ensure viable populations are maintained and to maintain the forests’ natural ecological processes. Due to the continuing impacts of deforestation on tropical forest composition and processes, it can be said that the ecological future of the Amazonian region is greatly tied to its economic future. Efforts should continue to be made in order to prevent disastrous edge effects resulting from fires, climate change, and human impact from commercial hunting and logging.\n\nOver 30 years of research and data collection with the BDFFP experiment has led to many discoveries and important lessons for scientists, but has also faced many challenges, such as funding. Since the late 1990s, colonization and hunting have emerged as direct threats to the BDFFP. The paving of the 1100-km-long Manaus-Venezuela highway has increased forest colonization and logging (Laurance 2011). As the influx of humans continues into these lands, the conservation efforts of the BDFFP become increasingly important in order to prevent devastating effects on the surrounding forest ecosystems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917872", "title": "WWDC (FM)", "text": "WWDC (FM)\n\nWWDC (101.1 FM, \"DC101\") is a commercial FM radio station licensed to serve Washington, D.C.. The station is owned by iHeartMedia through licensee AMFM Radio Licenses, L.L.C. and broadcasts an alternative rock format. Studios are located in Rockville, Maryland, while the station's broadcast tower is located on Brookville Road in Silver Spring, Maryland at ().\nWWDC serves as the flagship station for \"Elliot in the Morning\" and as the local affiliate for \"Skratch 'N Sniff\n\nWWDC uses HD Radio, and broadcasts a conservative talk format on its HD2 subchannel. The HD2 programming is simulcast on translator W284CQ.\n\nWWDC-FM signed on in 1947 as a beautiful music station on 101.1 FM. It was owned by Capital Broadcasting Company with WWDC (1450 AM). In 1950, Cowles Media Company, the owner of WOL (1260 AM) and WOL-FM (98.7 FM), exited the Washington market and sold to Capital. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved the sale on the condition that WWDC's 250-watt signal on 1450 AM would not be upgraded. Capital resold WOL and WOL-FM, and on February 20, 1950, Capital moved WWDC onto the more powerful 5-kilowatt 1260 AM assignment. WOL-FM and WWDC-FM also swapped licenses, callsigns and transmitting facilities on the same day. Unlike the AM stations, both FM stations were near each other and on equal footing at 20 kilowatts of power, so the two simply modified their new licenses to continue operating on their same frequencies.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, it simulcast the programming of its (slightly more contemporary than) MOR AM sister station on weekdays, and played oldies at night and on weekends. In the mid-1970s, it attempted album rock at night for a few months and then switched full-time to an album rock music format. Its AM counterpart (now WQOF) was the first American radio station to play a Beatles song when it played \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" in December 1963.\n\nWWDC's most successful ratings and revenue period was 1987–1990. The station was #1 in men (Arbitron) and was a printing press when it came to money. One of the premier album oriented rock stations in the country, the air staff featured Greaseman in the morning, Dusty Scott in midday, Steveski in afternoons and Kirk McEwen in the evening. With this lineup and format, WWDC consistently ran in the 6s, dominating men in the nation's 7th largest market. The sound was a combination of new and classic rock. Other personalities (Boss Jocks) during the 80s included Adam \"Smash\" Smasher, Ernie D'Kaye, Cerphe, Sandy Edwards, Buddy Rizer, YDB (Young Dave Brown), Sean Donohue (Rusty Brainpan), and Vinnie Brewster.\n\nWWDC's rock playlist typically swings toward the hard rock end of the rock spectrum, playing acts like Foo Fighters and Metallica. Early on, though, pop-oriented acts including Elton John, Billy Joel and Rod Stewart often cropped up on-air. During the 1990s, the station interspersed more modern and alternative rock acts including Smashing Pumpkins and Stone Temple Pilots to compete with its chief rival, WHFS-FM. Originally a mainstream rock station, WWDC changed to their current alternative rock format by 2005 because of WHFS-FM flipping to tropical music as WLZL, but Mediabase & Nielsen BDS had them on the alternative rock panels prior to the WHFS-FM flip. This left the hard rock/active rock playlist for the Washington/Baltimore area to continue on rival WIYY (98 Rock) in Baltimore.\n\nIn 2007, the station was nominated by \"Radio & Records\" for top alternative station in a top-25 market.\n\nWWDC was among the last independently owned radio stations in the Washington, D.C. market. In February 1998, parent company Capitol Broadcasting sold WWDC and its AM sister station, WWDC 1260 (now WQOF), for $72 million to Texas-based Chancellor Media, later AM-FM. Eventually, AM-FM was acquired by Clear Channel Communications, which (as iHeartMedia) now owns and operates a total of five radio stations in Washington, D.C.\n\nWWDC's facilities were once located on Connecticut Avenue between Dupont Circle and Farragut Square in downtown Washington, D.C. They later moved to Silver Spring, Maryland, and are now located in Rockville, Maryland. By 2011, WWDC added Aerosmith, Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath, Jimi Hendrix and Pink Floyd back on the playlist, although they were played sparingly and the station was still not considered active rock. As of August 2014, those artists have been dropped from the playlist.\n\nWWDC advanced the careers of several famous (or notorious) morning radio personalities. Howard Stern was the morning man from March 1981 to June 1982. When Stern left the station on June 29, 1982, it was rumored that he was fired because of his on-air prank of pretending to call Air Florida airlines to book a flight to the 14th Street Bridge only one day after 78 people died when Air Florida Flight 90 crashed into the Potomac River at the bridge. Nearly six months elapsed between the crash of Air Florida 90 occurred on January 13, 1982, and the firing in late June. It is more likely that Stern was fired because of an impasse on his compensation, because he had already signed with WNBC before his WWDC contract ended. It is at WWDC that Stern was first paired with news anchor Robin Quivers. WWDC is featured prominently in Stern's 1997 bio-pic \"Private Parts\".\n\nStern was replaced by Doug Tracht, better known as the Greaseman, who spent over ten years at the station, from August 2, 1982 to January 22, 1993, and returned to the station in April 2008, but eventually was laid off again in October 2008 so the station could focus solely on music on weekends without his comedy bits.\n\nWWDC's current morning program is \"Elliot In the Morning\", led by Elliot Segal. Since beginning his tenure at WWDC in 1999, Segal has been suspended and fined on several occasions for the show's sometimes controversial content; in October 2003, Clear Channel was fined $55,000 for the broadcast of indecent material during two episodes of the program in May 2002. In the first of the two broadcasts on May 7, 2002, a pair of sixteen-year-old students of Bishop Denis J. O'Connell High School had phoned the show to participate in a contest, whose winners would receive a chance to become cage dancers at an upcoming Kid Rock concert. The two students—who assumed false names and claimed to be 18—discussed allegations of sexual activity at the school, goaded on by host Segal, including \"graphic and explicit references to the sexual activities of the school's students and administrators\" (such as oral sex). The next day, after learning that the two students had been suspended for the remarks, Segal criticized the school and its staff on-air, and proceeded to take further calls from O'Connell students that contained similar content.\n\nWWDC-HD2 broadcasts a conservative talk format branded as \"104.7 Wonk FM\"; the format launched on January 9, 2019, replacing the previous active rock format \"104.7 Rock Nation\". Programming primarily consists of syndicated content, including podcasts from HowStuffWorks, the \"Reaction Zone\" (an afternoon show which carries highlights of shows from other iHeartMedia conservative talk stations, along with alternating weather and traffic updates), \"Armstrong & Getty\", and Joe Pags. The programming is simulcast on Chevy Chase, Maryland-based translator W284CQ (104.7 FM).\n\nWWDC-HD2 and W284CQ temporarily became the FM home of the Washington Capitals from January 23, 2017 through the end of the 2016-17 season. The midseason deal came about after WJFK-FM (106.7 FM) elected not to renew its deal with the Capitals before the 2016-17 season, limiting the team's local broadcasts to WFED (1500 AM) and Internet streaming. The Washington Wizards share WFED as their home station and take precedence in conflicts; as a result, Capitals games were left without a home radio broadcast when both teams were playing, leading to complaints from fans and the media. WWDC-HD2 and W284CQ aired all Capitals games for the remainder of the 2016-17 season. At the time the deal was struck, the active rock format was also inaugurated. WWDC-HD2 ceased broadcasting the Capitals at the beginning of the 2017-18 season, as games returned to WJFK-FM.\n\nThe two stations also added Baltimore Ravens coverage for the 2017 season, replacing WBIG-FM (100.3 FM) as the team's Washington outlet.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917885", "title": "Peter Aufschnaiter", "text": "Peter Aufschnaiter\n\nPeter Aufschnaiter (2 November 1899 – 12 October 1973) was a Tyrolean mountaineer, agricultural scientist, geographer, and cartographer. His experiences with fellow climber Heinrich Harrer during World War II were depicted in the 1997 film \"Seven Years in Tibet\".\n\nBorn in Kitzbühel, Austria, Peter Aufschnaiter went to high school in Kufstein. During his school education he was drafted into military service in the First World War in 1917. After he finished his final exams in 1919 he went to Munich in Germany to study agriculture.\n\nIn his early years he began climbing in his beloved Kaiser mountain range and later, in Munich, Aufschnaiter became acquainted with several German alpinists of the time. He took part in expeditions to Kangchenjunga (1929 and 1931) in Sikkim, where he reached a height of 7700 m (25, 260 ft). On these expeditions he had first contacts with Tibetans and learned the Tibetan language.\n\nAfter the Machtergreifung of 30 January 1933 he joined the Nazi Party. From 1936 he worked full-time for the German Himalaya Foundation () established that year by Paul Bauer.\n\nAfter several attempts at the Nanga Parbat, Aufschnaiter led a small four-man expedition in 1939, including Heinrich Harrer, to the Diamir Face with the aim of finding an easier route to the peak. Having concluded that the face was viable, they were in Karachi at the end of August waiting for a freighter to take them home. The ship being long overdue, Harrer, Ludwig and Lobenhoffer tried to reach Persia with their shaky car, but several hundred kilometers northwest of Karachi were put under the \"protection\" of British soldiers and escorted back to Karachi, where Aufschnaiter had stayed on.\n\nTwo days later war was declared and on 3 September 1939, all were put behind barbed wire to be transferred to a detention camp at Ahmednagar near Bombay two weeks later. They considered escaping to Portuguese Goa but when further transferred to Dehradun, where they were detained for years with 1,000 other enemy aliens, they found Tibet more promising. Their goal was the Japanese front in Burma or China.\n\nAufschnaiter and Harrer escaped and were re-captured a number of times before finally succeeding. On 29 April 1944 after lunch a group of seven, and Heins von Have disguised as British officers. Harrer, Aufschnaiter, the Salzburger Bruno Treipel (aka Treipl) and the Berliners Hans Kopp and Sattler, disguised as native Indian workers, walked out of the camp. While Magener and von Have took the train to Calcutta and from there found their way to the Japanese army in Burma, the others headed for the closest border. After Sattler had given up on 10 May, the remaining four entered Tibet crossing the Tsang Chok-la Pass (5,896 metres) on 17 May 1944 and thereafter split into two groups: Harrer and Kopp, Aufschnaiter and Treipel. On 17 June Treipel, exhausted, bought himself a horse and rode back to the lowlands. Several months later, when the remaining three were still without visas for Tibet, Kopp gave up too and left for Nepal (where he was handed over to the British within a few days).\n\nAufschnaiter and Harrer, helped by the former's knowledge of the Tibetan language, proceeded to the capital of Lhasa which they reached on 15 January 1946, having crossed Western Tibet (passing holy Mount Kailash), the South-West with Gyirong County and the Northern Changthang Plateau.\n\nFrom then on Aufschnaiter played an important role in Tibet. Employed by the government he helped plan a hydroelectric power plant and a sewage system for Lhasa and started first attempts at river regulations and reforestation in the area. He also looked into improving the quality of seeds. With Harrer he charted the first exact map of the capital city. His archaeological findings led to a correspondence with the scholar Giuseppe Tucci. His extensive work is described in Heinrich Harrer's \"Seven Years in Tibet\" and Harrer's autobiography \"Beyond Seven Years in Tibet: my life before, during and after\". Aufschnaiter's own book Eight Years in Tibet, includes many of his own photographs and sketches.\n\nIn October 1950 the advance of the Chinese People's Liberation Army to Lhasa forced Aufschnaiter and Harrer to join the caravan of the Dalai Lama when he retreated to the Chumbi Valley bordering Sikkim and India. Harrer proceeded to India, but Aufschnaiter stayed at Gyantse and left Tibet only 10 months later. Harrer's book, \"Seven years in Tibet\" states that, \"On 20 December 1950, Peter left Lhasa. Heinrich Harrer had already left for southern Tibet in the middle of November, finally leaving the country in March 1951. But Aufschnaiter wanted to stay in Tibet as long as possible, and in fact remained another ten months. (...) at this time he was on the south-western frontier of Tibet. On the way there he visited the monastery of Rongphu, which the Chinese had not yet destroyed, and from there climbed, alone, as far as No. 1 camp on the northern ascent route to Everest.\"\n\nHe arrived in Nepal in 1952 where he worked as a cartographer and then in New Delhi, for the Indian Army. In 1955, he first-ascended Ronti (6063 m) in the Garhwal Himalaya together with Canadian George Hampson in pure alpine style. He eventually obtained a Nepalese passport which allowed him access to many restricted remote areas and he discovered valuable early Buddhist frescos. Aufschnaiter spent most of his remaining years in Nepal, working as an agricultural engineer. At first he worked for Swiss Technical Aid. From 1956 on he held a position as an agriculture expert for the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.\n\nHe returned to Austria much later in life and died in Innsbruck, Austria, in 1973 at the age of 73. He is buried at Kitzbüheler Bergfriedhof, Austria.\nOnly very late in his life the introverted Aufschnaiter began writing memoirs but did not see them published. After his death the manuscript was first in the possession of mountaineer Paul Bauer. Finally it was edited and published by Tibet scholar Martin Brauen of the Museum of Ethnology at the University of Zurich.\n\nThe 1997 film \"Seven Years in Tibet\" portrayed Aufschnaiter as having married a Tibetan tailor in Lhasa. His role was played by English actor David Thewlis.\n\n\n\n- Peter Aufschnaiter's report of the 1939 Nanga Parbat Expedition (in English).\n"}
{"id": "1917892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917892", "title": "List of settlements in the Evros regional unit", "text": "List of settlements in the Evros regional unit\n\nThis is a list of settlements in the Evros regional unit, Greece:\n\n\nSamothrace (no subdivisions)\nAgrafiotika, Aliki, Amfithea, Amygdalia, Apidochori, Archondiko, Asia, Chaldini, Chandakas, Chloi, Daskaleio, Delitio, Drepano, Drymos, Dymi, Fere Kalyva, Gavria, Iana, Katsika, Kissos, Kitrinopetra, Kliso, Ktima, Mavropetra, Megali Kavissos, Melopetra, Mikraki, Nea Vrysi, Nefeli, Ourania, Palaistra, Patara, Pessani, Polyvlasto, Potamos, Profitis Ilias, Pyrolithos, Samaras, Sanidochori, Sarpidonia, Spano, Tarsio, Theiafi, Treis Myloi, Triada, Tsaliki, Vafeio, Vergi, Vyrini, Xirodendro, Yalia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917925", "title": "What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? (film)", "text": "What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? (film)\n\nWhat Ever Happened to Baby Jane? is a 1962 American psychological horror thriller film produced and directed by Robert Aldrich and starring Bette Davis and Joan Crawford. The plot concerns an aging former actress who holds her paraplegic ex-movie star sister captive in an old Hollywood mansion. The screenplay by Lukas Heller is based on the novel \"What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?\" by Henry Farrell. Upon the film's release, it was met with widespread critical and box office acclaim and was later nominated for five Academy Awards, winning one for Best Costume Design, Black and White.\n\nThe intensely bitter Hollywood rivalry between the film's two stars, Davis and Crawford, was heavily important to the film's initial success. This in part led to the revitalization of the careers of the two stars. In the years after release, critics continued to acclaim the film for its psychologically driven black comedy, camp, and creation of the psycho-biddy subgenre. The film's novel and controversial plot meant that it originally received an X rating in the UK. Because of the appeal of the film's stars, Dave Itzkoff in \"The New York Times\" has identified it as being a \"cult classic\". In 2003 the character of Baby Jane Hudson was ranked No. 44 on the American Film Institute's list of the \"50 Best Villains of American Cinema\".\n\nIn 1917, \"Baby Jane\" Hudson is a spoiled and capricious child actress who performs in vaudeville theatres across the country with her father, who acts as her manager and accompanies her on stage as a pianist. Her success is such that a line of porcelain dolls is made in her image. Meanwhile, her shy older sister Blanche lives in her shadow and is treated with contempt by the haughty Jane. As the sisters pass adolescence, their situations undergo a reversal; Jane's style of performing falls out of fashion, and her career dissolves as she descends into alcoholism, while Blanche becomes an acclaimed Hollywood actress. Mindful of a promise made to their mother, Blanche attempts to maintain a semblance of a career for Jane, going as far as to impose on producers to guarantee a number of acting roles for Jane. One evening in 1935, Blanche's career is cut short when she is paralyzed from the waist down in a mysterious car accident that is unofficially blamed on Jane, who is found three days later in a drunken stupor.\nIn 1962, Blanche and Jane are living together in a mansion purchased with Blanche's movie earnings. Blanche's mobility is limited by a wheelchair and the lack of an elevator to her upstairs bedroom. Jane, psychotic and resentful of Blanche's success, regularly mistreats Blanche and prepares to revive her old act with hired pianist Edwin Flagg. When Blanche informs Jane she intends to sell the house, Jane rightly suspects Blanche will commit her to a psychiatric hospital once the house is sold. She removes the telephone from Blanche's bedroom, cutting her off from the outside world. During Jane's absence, Blanche desperately drags herself down the stairs and calls her doctor for help. Jane returns to find Blanche on the phone and beats her unconscious before mimicking Blanche's voice to dismiss the doctor. After tying Blanche to her bed and locking her in her room, Jane abruptly fires their maid Elvira when she comes to the house. While Jane is away, the suspicious Elvira sneaks into the house and attempts to access Blanche's room. Concerned by the lack of a response, Elvira tries to break open the door with a hammer. Jane returns home and reluctantly gives Elvira the key. As soon as Elvira enters Blanche's room, Jane takes the hammer and kills Elvira.\n\nA few days later, the police call to tell Jane that Elvira's cousin has reported her missing. Jane panics and prepares to leave, taking Blanche with her. Before they can leave, an inebriated Edwin casually enters the house and discovers Blanche bound to her bed. Edwin flees and notifies the authorities. Jane, in a fit of infantile regression, takes Blanche to a beach where she sang as a child, attracting the attention of nearby beach-goers. Blanche — lying starved, dehydrated and near death on a blanket — confesses to Jane that she is paraplegic through her own fault: on the night of the accident, Blanche tried to run Jane over because she was angry at Jane for mocking her at a party earlier that night. Blanche's spine broke when her car struck the iron gates outside their mansion, and she dragged herself in front of the car's hood to stage the accident and frame Jane. Blanche took advantage of Jane's shock and subsequent bender removing the real dynamics of the accident from her mind, and subjected Jane to a life of guilt, loneliness and servitude. After Jane buys ice cream for herself and Blanche from a nearby kiosk, she is recognized by two police officers, who ask her to lead them to Blanche. Jane dodges the officers' inquiry and dances before a crowd of bemused onlookers, while the officers find Blanche and rush to confirm her condition.\n\n\nBette Davis created her own makeup for the role of \"Baby Jane\" Hudson. Director Robert Aldrich said it closely matched his idea for the character's grotesque makeup, but he was afraid to suggest it lest he offend Davis. Unlike most of her peers in Hollywood, Davis was unafraid to wear ugly costumes and makeup if they enhanced her performance. She wore unflattering makeup portraying a vain socialite disfigured by diphtheria in \"Mr. Skeffington\" (1944), and donned severe makeup and partially shaved her head to play Queen Elizabeth I in \"The Virgin Queen\".\n\nThe house exterior of the Hudson mansion is located at 172 South McCadden Place in the neighborhood of Hancock Park, Los Angeles. Other residential exteriors show cottages on DeLongpre Avenue near Harvard Avenue in Hollywood without their current gated courtyards. The scene on the beach was filmed near Aldrich's beach house in Malibu, the same site where Aldrich filmed the final scene of \"Kiss Me Deadly\" (1955). The beach house's exterior is briefly visible during the film's final scenes.\n\nFootage from the Bette Davis films \"Parachute Jumper\" and \"Ex-Lady\" (both 1933) and the Joan Crawford film \"Sadie McKee\" (1934) was used to represent the film acting of Jane and Blanche respectively.\n\nThe character of Liza, Mrs. Bates' daughter, was played by Davis' real-life daughter B. D. Merrill. After Joan Crawford's daughter Christina wrote the best-selling tell-all book \"Mommie Dearest\", Merrill published a memoir that also depicted her mother in an unfavorable light.\n\nCrawford was scheduled to appear alongside Davis on a publicity tour of \"What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?\" but cancelled at the last minute. Davis claimed that Crawford backed out because she did not want to share the stage with her. In a 1972 telephone conversation, Crawford told author Shaun Considine that after seeing the film she urged Davis to go and have a look. When she failed to hear back from her co-star, Crawford called Davis and asked her what she thought of the film. Davis replied, \"You were so right, Joan. The picture is good. And I was terrific.\" Crawford said, \"That was it. She never said anything about my performance. Not a word.\" Considine alleges that this incident and Davis' refusal to acknowledge her co-star's contribution to the film led Crawford to cancel the publicity tour and upstage Davis at the Oscars.\n\nPrior to the Oscars ceremony, Crawford contacted the Best Actress nominees who were unable to attend the ceremonies and offered to accept the award on their behalf if they won. Davis claimed that Crawford lobbied against her among Academy voters. Anne Bancroft won Best Actress for \"The Miracle Worker\", but was in New York performing a stage play; she had agreed to let Crawford accept the award on her behalf if she won. Crawford triumphantly swept on-stage to pick up the trophy. Davis later said, \"It would have meant a million more dollars to our film if I had won. Joan was thrilled I hadn't.\" As both Davis and Crawford had accepted lower salaries in exchange for a share of the film's profits, Davis considered it foolish of Crawford to have worked against their common interests, especially at a time when roles for actresses their age were scarce.\n\nDuring the filming of \"Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte\" (1964), Crawford acknowledged to visiting reporter and author Lawrence J. Quirk the difficulty she was having with Davis because of the Oscar incident, but added, \"She acted like \"Baby Jane\" was a one-woman show after they nominated her. What was I supposed to do, let her hog all the glory, act like I hadn't even been in the movie? She got the nomination. I didn't begrudge her that, but it would have been nice if she'd been a little gracious in interviews and given me a little credit. I would have done it for her.\"\n\nContemporary reviews were mixed. In a generally negative review in \"The New York Times\", Bosley Crowther observed, \"[Davis and Crawford] do get off some amusing and eventually blood-chilling displays of screaming sororal hatred and general monstrousness ... The feeble attempts that Mr. Aldrich has made to suggest the irony of two once idolized and wealthy females living in such depravity, and the pathos of their deep-seated envy having brought them to this, wash out very quickly under the flood of sheer grotesquerie. There is nothing moving or particularly significant about these two.\" Philip K. Scheuer of the \"Los Angeles Times\" also panned the film, writing that Crawford and Davis had been turned into \"grotesque caricatures of themselves\" and that the film \"mocks not only its characters but also the sensibilities of its audience.\" \"The Chicago Tribune\" wrote, \"This isn't a movie, it's a caricature. Bette Davis' make-up could very well have been done by Charles Addams, Joan Crawford's perils make those of Pauline look like good, clean fun and the plot piles one fantastic twist upon another until it all becomes nonsensical.\" Brendan Gill of \"The New Yorker\" was somewhat negative as well, calling the film \"far from being a Hitchcock—it goes on and on, in a light much dimmer than necessary, and the climax, when it belatedly arrives, is a bungled, languid mingling of pursuers and pursued which put me in mind of 'Last Year at Marienbad.' Still, Bette Davis and Joan Crawford \"do\" get a chance to carry on like mad things, which at least one of them is supposed to be.\"\n\nAmong the positive reviews, \"Variety\" stated that after a slow and overlong introduction the film became \"an emotional toboggan ride,\" adding, \"Although the results heavily favor Davis (and she earns the credit), it should be recognized that the plot, of necessity, allows her to run unfettered through all the stages of oncoming insanity ... Crawford gives a quiet, remarkably fine interpretation of the crippled Blanche, held in emotionally by the nature and temperament of the role.\" Richard L. Coe of \"The Washington Post\" also liked the film, writing that \"Miss Davis has the showiest role and bites into it with all her admired force, looking a fright from head to foot. I doubt if she would regret some of the laughs she gets. She plays for them and psychologically, they are needed. If Miss Crawford has the passive role, that is not without rewards. Suffering is one of her particular gifts.\" \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" wrote that numerous directorial techniques, including all the plunging shots down the staircase, made the film look \"rather like an anthology of the oldest and most hackneyed devices in thrillerdom. And yet, in its curious Gothic way, the film works marvelously, though mainly as a field-day for its actors.\"\n\nIn \"Sight & Sound\", Peter John Dyer stated that the film had \"a frequent air of incompetence,\" writing of Aldrich's direction that \"Like some textbook student of Hitchcock who never got beyond \"Blackmail\", he dispenses suspense with ham-fisted conventionality.\" Dyer did praise the performances of the leads, however, finding that they seemed to have found \"a new maturity, a discipline encouraged perhaps by the confined sets and Crawford's wheelchair, or by the interaction of their professional rivalry upon a belated mutual respect.\"\n\nMore recent assessments have been more uniformly positive. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes the film holds an approval rating of 92% based on 50 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?\" combines powerhouse acting, rich atmosphere, and absorbing melodrama in service of a taut thriller with thought-provoking subtext.\"\n\nIn a retrospective review, \"TV Guide\" awarded the film four stars, calling it \"Star wars, trenchantly served\" and adding, \"If it sometimes looks like a poisonous senior citizen show with over-the-top spoiled ham, just try to look away ... As in the best Hitchcock movies, suspense, rather than actual mayhem, drives the film.\"\n\nThe film was a box office hit, grossing $9 million at the worldwide box office and $4,050,000 in theatrical rentals in North America. Its estimated budget was only $980,000.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the film was given an X certificate by the BBFC in 1962, with a few minor cuts. These cuts were waived for a video submission, which was given an 18 certificate in 1988, meaning no-one under 18 years of age could purchase a copy of the film. However, in 2004, the film was re-submitted for a theatrical re-release, and it was given a 12A certificate, now meaning persons under 12 years of age could view it if accompanied by an adult. It remains at this category.\n\nThe film's success spawned a succession of horror/thriller films featuring psychotic older women, later dubbed the psycho-biddy subgenre, among them Aldrich's \"Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte\", \"What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice?\", and director Curtis Harrington's \"Whoever Slew Auntie Roo?\" and \"What's the Matter with Helen?\". It was parodied by the Italian comedy film \"What Ever Happened to Baby Toto?\"\n\nShaun Considine's book \"\" (1989) chronicles the actresses' rivalry, including their experience shooting this film.\n\nComedy duo \"French and Saunders\" (Jennifer Saunders and Dawn French) did a BBC episode called \"Whatever Happened to Baby Dawn\" on 22 March 1990.\n\nIn 1991, the film was remade as a television film starring real-life sisters Vanessa and Lynn Redgrave.\n\nIn 2006, Christina Aguilera adopted a new alter ego called Baby Jane after Bette Davis' character in the film.\n\nIn episode 4 of \"RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars (season 2)\", the queens' acting chops are tested in parody film sequels of RuPaul<nowiki>'s favourite films. A parody of \"What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?\" called \"Wha' Ha' Happened to Baby JJ?\"</nowiki> was made by Alaska and Alyssa Edwards.\n\nThe backstage battle between Crawford and Davis during the production of the film is the basis for \"Feud: Bette and Joan\", the 2017 first season of the Ryan Murphy television series \"Feud\". It stars Jessica Lange as Crawford and Susan Sarandon as Davis. It premiered on March 5, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917942", "title": "List of film distributors by country", "text": "List of film distributors by country\n\nThis is a list of motion picture distributors, past and present, sorted alphabetically by country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917943", "title": "Synste Møre", "text": "Synste Møre\n\nSynste Møre is a newspaper published in Møre og Romsdal, Norway. It has a circulation of 2103 ().\n"}
{"id": "1917948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917948", "title": "Beedi", "text": "Beedi\n\nA beedi (also spelled bidi or biri) is a thin cigarette or mini-cigar filled with tobacco flake and commonly wrapped in a \"Tendu (Diospyros melanoxylon)\" or \"Piliostigma racemosum\" leaf tied with a string or adhesive at one end. It originates from the Indian subcontinent. The name is derived from the Marwari word \"beeda\"—a mixture of betel nuts, herbs, and spices wrapped in a leaf.\n\nA traditional method of tobacco use throughout South Asia and parts of the Middle East, today beedies are popular and inexpensive in India, where beedi consumption outpaces that of conventional cigarettes, accounting for 48% of Indian tobacco consumption in 2008.\n\nBeedies deliver more nicotine, carbon monoxide, and tar and carry a greater risk of oral cancers. As with many other types of smoking, beedies increase the risk of certain kinds of cancers, heart disease, and lung disease. They may also be more harmful than other forms of tobacco consumption.\n\nFrequency of ventilatory abnormalities was highest in the cigarette smokers. A lower prevalence of chronic bronchitis and abnormal ventilatory measurements in beedi smokers, as compared with cigarette smokers, was thought to be primarily due to low total consumption of tobacco. Some added influence of smoke produced by burning of the wrapper leaf and type of tobacco used in beedies could not be ruled out.\n\nIndian tobacco cultivation began in the late 17th century, and beedies were first created when tobacco workers took leftover tobacco and rolled it in leaves.\n\nThe commercial Indian beedi industry saw rapid growth during the 1930s probably driven by an expansion of tobacco cultivation at the time but also helped by Gandhi's support of Indian industry and Indian products. Perhaps due to this, educated classes in India grew to prefer beedies to cigarettes although this is no longer the case. Muslim leaders, calling cigarettes foreign products, have also endorsed beedies at times.\n\nBy the middle of the 20th century beedi manufacture had grown into a highly competitive industry. This stage of commercial production—at the height of the beedi's popularity—saw the creation of many new beedi brands as well as beedi factories employing upwards of one hundred, primarily male, beedi rollers.\n\nFactory-based beedi production declined as a result of increased regulation during the 1940s, '50s, and '60s, and beedi-making became a cottage industry with a home-based women workforce predominantly employed only in the beedi rolling. In contrast, males continue to be employed in other aspects of beedi production.\n\nUnlike cigarettes, beedies must be puffed frequently to keep them lit, and doing so requires effort.\n\nBeedi smoking tends to be associated with a lower social standing, and these tobacco-filled leaves are inexpensive when compared to regular cigarettes. Those with a high social standing who do smoke beedies often do so out of the public eye; however, the cultural trend is changing.\n\nIn the United States, beedies are treated like conventional cigarettes. They are taxed at the same rates, are required to have a tax stamp, and must carry the Surgeon General's warning. However, a study done in San Francisco showed that about four in ten packs of beedies did not contain the required warning label and seven in ten did not carry the tax stamp. 2006 statistics on beedi usage show that 2.9% of high school students in the United States take part in beedi smoking compared to 1.4% of those aged 18 to 24.\n\nBeedis are currently legal in the UK and are subject to the same taxation as cigarettes. One must be aged 18 or over to purchase them.\n\nSome beedies are flavoured. Both Canada and the US have banned flavoured cigarettes.\n\nOver 8 million Indians are employed in the manufacture of beedies, a cottage industry that is typically done by women in their homes.\n\nWorkers roll an average of 500–1000 beedies per day, handling of tobacco flake. Studies have shown that nicotine levels in the bodily fluids of beedi workers are elevated even among those who do not use tobacco.\n\nThe production of beedies is also popular in Bangladesh. According to the 2014 \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" published by the Bureau of International Labor Affairs, the informal sector in these countries employs underage children in the production of beedies \"in response to consumer preferences\".\n\nTendu (\"Diospyros melanoxylon\") leaves make excellent wrappers, and the success of the beedi is due, in part, to this leaf. The leaves are in abundance shortly after the tobacco crop is cured and so are ready to be used in beedi manufacture. Collected in the summer and made into bundles, the leaves are dried in the sun for three to six days before being used as wrappers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917953", "title": "Corporation tax in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Corporation tax in the Republic of Ireland\n\nIreland's Corporate Tax System is a central component of Ireland's economy. In 2016–17, foreign firms paid 80% of Irish corporate tax, employed 25% of the Irish labour force (paid 50% of Irish salary tax), and created 57% of Irish OECD non-farm value-add. U.S.–controlled firms represent almost all foreign firms in Ireland and in 2017 were 25 of the top 50 Irish firms, and 70% of the revenue of the top 50 Irish firms (). By 2018, Ireland had received the most U.S. in history, and Apple was over one–fifth of Irish GDP. Academics rank Ireland as the largest tax haven; larger than the Caribbean tax haven system.\n\nIreland's \"headline\" corporation tax rate is 12.5%, however, foreign multinationals pay an aggregate of 2.2–4.5% on global profits \"shifted\" to Ireland, via Ireland's global network of bilateral tax treaties. These lower effective tax rates are achieved by a complex set of Irish base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") tools which handle the largest BEPS flows in the world (e.g. the Double Irish as used by Google and Facebook, the Single Malt as used by Microsoft and Allergan, and Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets as used by Accenture, and by Apple post Q1 2015).\n\nIreland's main use \"intellectual property\" (\"IP\") accounting to affect the BEPS movement, which is why almost all foreign multinationals in Ireland are from the industries with substantial IP, namely technology and life sciences. Multinationals from jurisdictions with \"territorial tax\" systems (i.e. almost all OECD countries), make little use of tax havens, thus, almost most foreign multinationals in Ireland date from periods when their home tax system was a \"worldwide tax\" system (e.g. UK pre–2009, and U.S. pre–2018); and is why there are no non–U.S./non–UK multinationals in Ireland's top 50 firms.\n\nAs with all tax havens, Ireland's GDP is artificially inflated by BEPS accounting flows. This distortion escalated in Q1 2015 when Apple executed the largest BEPS transaction in history, on-shoring $300 billion of non–U.S. IP to Ireland (called \"leprechaun economics\"). It forced the Central Bank of Ireland to abandon GDP in 2017, and replace with modified gross national income (GNI*), which removes part, but not all, of the distortions by BEPS tools. Irish GDP was 162% of Irish GNI* in 2017.\n\nIreland's corporation tax regime is integrated with Ireland's IFSC tax schemes (e.g. Section 110 SPVs and QIAIFs), which offer traditional tax haven-type tools to give confidential routes out of the Irish corporate tax system to Ireland's favoured Sink OFC, Luxembourg, which is 50% of all outbound Irish FDI. This functionality has made Ireland one of the largest global Conduit OFCs, and the third largest global Shadow Banking OFC. Irish privacy and data protection laws hide Irish tax tools from public scrutiny. There is evidence Ireland behaves like a \"captured state\", fostering tax avoidance schemes. Ireland is labelled a .\n\nAs , the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) moves the U.S to a \"territorial tax\" system. The TJCA's GILTI–FDII–BEAT tax regime has seen U.S. IP–heavy multinationals (e.g. Pfizer), forecast 2019 effective tax rates that are similar to those of prior U.S. tax inversions to Ireland (e.g. Medtronic). Ireland's corporate tax regime is also threatened by the EU's desire to introduce EU–wide anti-BEPS tool regimes (e.g. the 2020 Digital Services Tax, and the CCCTB).\n\n, there are two rates of corporation tax (\"CT\") in the Republic of Ireland:\n\n\n, the key attributes that tax experts note regarding the Irish corporate tax system are as follows:\n\n\nThe trends in Irish corporation tax (\"CT\") receipts to the Irish Exchequer were:\n\n\nEach year, the Department of Finance is required to produce a report on \"Estimates for Receipts and Expenditure\" for the coming year. The table below, is extracted from the \"Tax Revenues\" section of the report for the prior-year (e.g. the 2017 column is from the 2018 report), by which time the \"Tax Revenues\" for that year are largely known (although still subject to further revision in later years).\n\nThe \"Tax Revenues\" quoted are \"Exchequer Tax Revenues\", and do not include \"Appropriations-in-Aid\" (\"A–in–A\") items, the largest being Social Security (or PRSI) which for 2015 was €10.2 billion, and other smaller items. Irish Personal Income tax, and the two main Irish consumption taxes of VAT and Excise, have consistently been circa 80% of the total Irish Exchequer Tax Revenue, with the balance being Corporate tax.\n\nIreland's economic model was transformed from a predominantly agricultural-based economy to a knowledge-based economy, when the EU agreed to waive EU State-aid rules to allow Ireland's special rate of 10% for manufacturing (created in 1980–81 with the EU's agreement), to be extended to the special economic zone called the International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") in Dublin city centre in 1987. The transformation was accelerated when Ireland's standard corporate tax rate was reduced from 40% to 12.5% (phased in from 1996–2003), in response to the EU's 1996–1998 decision to withdraw the State-aid waiver. The passing of the \"1997 Taxes and Consolidated Acts\" laid the legal foundations for the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tools used by U.S. multinationals in Ireland (e.g. the Double Irish, the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets and the Section 110 SPV), to achieve an effective Irish CT rate, or \"ETR\", of 0–2.5%.\n\nWhile low CT rates (and evern lower effective tax rates), are a central part of Irish tax policy, non–CT \"Taxation in the Republic of Ireland\" is closer to EU–28 and OECD averages. Ireland's policy is summarised by the OECD's \"Hierarchy of Taxes\" pyramid (reproduced in the Department of Finance Tax Strategy Group's 2011 corporate tax policy document). As shown in , annual Irish CT has been between 10 and 16 percent of annual Total Irish Tax from circa 1994 to 2018. From 2000–2014, Ireland's Total Tax-to-GDP ratio was circa 27–30%, versus the OECD average of 33%. However, since Apple's leprechaun economics Irish restructuring artificially inflated Ireland's GDP by 34.3% in 2015, Ireland's Tax-to-GDP ratio had fallen to the bottom of the OECD range at under 23%.\n\nIn June 2018, tax academics estimated that Ireland was the largest global tax haven, exceeding the combined flows of the entire Caribbean tax haven system. Tax academics have also showed that being a corporate tax haven has been a prosperous economy strategy for Ireland, and most other havens. However, research also showed that the artificial distortion of Ireland's economic data, and GDP in particular, by BEPS flows, led to a large credit bubble during 2003–2007 (due to the mispricing of Ireland's credit by international markets), and an eventual credit–property–banking crisis in 2008–2013 (when Ireland's credit was re-priced).\n\nIreland's main foreign multinationals are from periods when their home jurisdiction had a \"worldwide tax\" system (see \"Table 1\"), and since the UK switched to a \"territorial tax\" system in 2009–12, Ireland has been almost exclusively a U.S. corporate–tax haven (see \"Table 1\"). In October 2014, \"The Guardian\" quoted Bono, the lead singer of Ireland's U2, as saying that \"his country’s tax policies have \"brought our country the only prosperity we’ve known\"\". In April 2016, award-winning Irish writer, Fintan O'Toole labeled Ireland's focus on being a U.S. corporate tax haven as the core economic model, as Ireland's OBI, (or \"One Big Idea\").\n\nU.S.–controlled multinationals, either legally based in the U.S. or legally based in Ireland (e.g. tax inversions), dominate Ireland's economy. In June 2018, the \"American Chamber of Commerce (Ireland)\" estimated the value of U.S. investment in Ireland was €334 billion, which compared to 2017 Irish GNI* of €181.2 billion. In January 2018, Eurostat used 2015 data to show the \"gross operating surplus\" of foreign companies in Ireland was almost exclusively from U.S. companies, with the UK was a distant second, and little other foreign firm activity (see graphic). Not only did U.S. companies rank ahead of Irish companies, but a material quantum of the \"gross operating surplus\" attributed to Irish companies, is from U.S. tax inversion such as Medtronic, Eaton and Allergan, who are in effect, U.S.–controlled multinationals, and have little attachment to Ireland.\n\nIn 2016–2017, foreign multinationals, being entirely U.S.–controlled:\n\n\nThe main features regarding foreign multinationals in Ireland are:\n\n\nIreland's corporate BEPS tools emphasise job creation (either of Irish employees or of foreign employees to Ireland). To use Irish BEPS tools, and their ETRs of 0–2.5%, the multinational must meet conditions on the intellectual property (\"IP\") they will be using as part of their Irish BEPS tool. This is outlined in the Irish Finance Acts particular to each scheme, but in summary, the multinational must:\n\n\nThe percentage of Irish wages-to-profits required in the \"business plan\" has never been disclosed, however, commentators imply the Irish wage-roll needs to be circa 2–3% of profits booked in Ireland:\n\n\nTo the extent that the Irish jobs are performing real functions (e.g. the function is not replicated elsewhere in the Group), the cost is not a \"employment tax\", however, at worst case, the U.S. multinational should incur an aggregate effective Irish corporation tax of 2–6% (actual Irish BEPS tool tax of 0–2.5%, plus Irish employment costs of 2–3%). Therefore, as shown in , while Irish CT has consistently been between 10 and 15% of Total Irish Tax, the additional employment contribution made by U.S. multinationals in Ireland, has led to strong growth in overall Irish Total Taxes.\n\nThe top 50 Irish companies, ranked by 2017 Irish registered revenues, are as follows:\n\nFrom the above table:\n\nThe tax schemes used by U.S. multinationals in Ireland are called base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tools by tax academics. Whereas Ireland's \"headline\" corporation tax rate is 12.5%, Ireland's BEPS tools enable an effective tax rate of 0% to 2.5% to be achieved, depending on which BEPS tool is used.\n\nIreland has been associated with U.S. multinational \"profit shifting\" to avoid taxes since the U.S. IRS produced a list on the 12 January 1981. In February 1994, the U.S. tax academic, James R. Hines Jr. identified Ireland as one of seven \"major\" tax havens for U.S. multinational \"profit shifting\". During the 2014–2016 EU investigation into Apple's Irish BEPS tools, it was revealed that the Irish Revenue Commissioners had been issuing private rulings on Apple's Double Irish BEPS tools as far back as 1991; and that Apple, Ireland's largest company, had an ETR of less than 1%. In 2014, the EU Commission forced Ireland to close its Double Irish BEPS tool, however, Ireland had replacements in place: the \"Single Malt\" (2014), and the \"Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets\" (CAIA) (2009).\n\nWhen Apple closed its hybrid–Double Irish BEPS tool in Q1 2015 and restructured into the CAIA BEPS tool, the Irish Central Statistics Office (\"CSO\") had to re-state Irish 2015 GDP as Apple's CAIA tool had artificially inflated Irish GDP by 34.4%; an event Paul Krugman christened in July 2016 as Leprechaun economics. Because the Irish CSO delayed the re-statement and redacted normal economic data to protect Apple's identity, it was not until January 2018, that economists could confirm Apple as the source of \"leprechaun economics\", and that at $300 billion, was the largest BEPS action in history. By February 2017, the distortion of Irish economic data by Irish BEPS tools had grown so large, that the Central Bank of Ireland replaced GDP with Modified GNI; 2017 Irish GNI* is 40% below Irish GDP (see \"Table 2\").\n\nIn November 2016, Ireland signed the OECD BEPS Multilateral Instrument (\"MLI\") to curb global BEPS tools but opted out of Article 12 to protect the Single Malt and CAIA BEPS tools. In March 2018, the Financial Stability Forum showed Ireland's Debt–based BEPS tools made it the 3rd–largest Shadow Banking OFC in the world. In June 2018, tax academics showed Irish IP–based BEPS tools were artificially distorting \"aggregate\" EU GDP data, and had artificially inflated the EU–U.S. trade-deficit. In June 2018, tax academics confirmed IP–based BEPS tools had made Ireland the world's largest tax haven, and that the $106 billion of annual corporate profits shielded by Irish BEPS tools, exceeded the BEPS flows of the entire Caribbean tax haven system.\n\nIreland's main BEPS tools use intellectual property (IP) to effect the \"profit shift\" from the higher-tax locations to Ireland, via royalty payment schemes. To avoid incurring Irish corporation tax on these \"shifted profits\", the BEPS tools either send-on the profits to traditional tax havens (with explicit 0% CT rates) via royalty payment schemes (e.g. the Double Irish and Single Malt BEPS tools), or use intangible capital allowances schemes to write-off the profits against Irish tax (e.g. the CAIA BEPS tool). This is the reason why most U.S. multinationals in Ireland are from the two largest IP–industries, namely technology companies and life sciences; or, are specific companies with valuable industrial patents such as Ingersoll-Rand and Eaton Corporation.\n\nIreland describes its IP–based BEPS tools as being part of its \"knowledge economy\"; however, U.S. tax academics describe IP as \"the leading tax-avoidance vehicle in the world\". Despite its small size, Ireland ranks 6th in the 2018 U.S. Global Intellectual Property Center (GIPC) league table of the top 50 global centres for IP–leglislation, and 4th in the important \"Patents\" sub-category (see graphic opposite).\n\nWhile Ireland's most important BEPS tools are all IP–based, Ireland has other BEPS tools including Transfer Pricing–based BEPS tools (e.g. contract manufacturing), and Debt–based BEPS tools (e.g. the Irish Section 110 SPV, and the Irish L-QIAIF).\n\nIreland's IP–based BEPS tools have only attracted material operations from multinationals whose home jurisdiction had a \"worldwide tax\" system; namely, the U.K pre–2009, and the U.S. pre–2018 (see \"Table 1\"). Ireland has not attracted material technology or life sciences multinationals (outside of a specific plant, under its TP–based \"Contract Manufacturing\" BEPS tool), whose home jurisdiction operates a \"territorial tax\" system. , there are only 6 remaining jurisdictions in the world who operate a \"worldwide tax\" system, of which Ireland is one (e.g. Chile, Greece, Ireland, Israel, South Korea, Mexico).\n\nIn 2016, U.S. tax academic, James R. Hines Jr. showed firms from \"territorial tax\" systems make little use of corporate–tax havens, as their tax code applied lower rates to foreign-sourced profits. Hines, with German tax academics, showed the German tax code charged a CT rate of 5% to the foreign profits of German multinationals. Hines was one of the most-cited sources when the U.S. Council of Economic Advisors advocated switching the U.S. tax code to a \"territorial system\" in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.\n\nIn 2014, the U.S Tax Foundation, reported on how the UK had effectively stopped UK corporates inverting to Ireland, by switching the UK corporate tax-code to a \"territorial system\" over 2009-2012. By 2014, the UK \"HMRC\" reported that most of the UK multinationals that had inverted to Ireland had either returned to the UK (e.g., WPP plc, United Business Media plc, Henderson Group plc), or were about to be acquired by U.S. multinationals as part of a U.S. corporate tax inversion to Ireland (e.g. Shire plc).\n\nAn \"artificially inflated GDP-per-capita statistic\", is a known feature of tax havens, due to the BEPS flows. In February 2017, Ireland's national accounts became so distorted by BEPS flows that the Central Bank of Ireland replaced Irish GDP with a new economic measure, Irish Modified GNI*. However, in December 2017, Eurostat reported that Modified GNI* did not remove all of the distortions from Irish economic data.\n\nBy September 2018, the Irish Central Statistics Office (\"CSO\") reported that Irish GDP was 162% of Irish GNI* (e.g. BEPS tools had artificially inflated Ireland's economic statistics by 62%). Irish public indebtedness changes dramatically depending on whether Debt-to-GDP, Debt-to-GNI* or Debt-per-Capita is used; the Debt-per-Capita metric removes all distortion from Irish BEPS tools and implies a level of Irish public-sector indebtedness that is only surpassed by Japan.\n\n(†) The Central Statistics Office (Ireland) revised 2015 GDP higher in 2017, increasing Ireland's \"leprechaun economics\" 2015 GDP growth rate from 26.3% to 34.4%.\n(‡) Eurostat show that GNI* is also still distorted by certain BEPS tools, and specifically contract manufacturing, which is a significant activity in Ireland.\n\nThe earliest recorded versions of the \"Double Irish\" BEPS tool are by Apple in the late 1980s; and the EU discovered Irish Revenue rulings on the Double Irish for Apple in 1991. Almost every major U.S. technology and life sciences firm has been associated with the Double Irish. Feargal O'Rourke, PwC tax partner in the IFSC (and son of Minister Mary O'Rourke, cousin of the 2008–2011 Irish Finance Minister Brian Lenihan Jnr) is regarded as its \"grand architect\". In 2018, tax academics showed the Double Irish shielded $106 billion of mainly U.S. annual corporate profits from both Irish and U.S. taxation in 2015. As the BEPS tool with which U.S. multinationals built up untaxed offshore reserves of circa US$1 trillion from 2004 to 2017, the Double Irish is the largest tax avoidance tool in history. In 2016, when the EU levied a €13 billion fine on Apple, the largest tax fine in history, it covered the period 2004–14, during which Apple paid an Irish ETR of <1% on €110.8 billion in Irish profits. Despite the loss of taxes to the U.S. exchequer, it was the EU Commission that forced Ireland to close the Double Irish from January 2015; with closure to existing users by 2020.\n\nIn an October 2013 interview, PwC tax partner Feargal O'Rourke (\"architect\" of the Double Irish, see above), said that: \"the days of the Double Irish tax scheme are numbered\". In October 2014, as the EU forced the Irish State to close the Double Irish BEPS tool, the influential U.S. National Tax Journal published an article by Jeffrey L Rubinger and Summer Lepree, showing that Irish based subsidiaries of U.S. corporations could replace the Double Irish arrangement with a new structure (now known as \"Single Malt\"). The Irish media picked up the article, but when an Irish MEP notified the then Finance Minister, Michael Noonan, he was told to \"Put on the green jersey\". A November 2017 report by Christian Aid, titled \"Impossible Structures\", showed how quickly the Single Malt BEPS tool was replacing the Double Irish. The report detailed Microsoft's and Allergen's schemes and extracts from advisers to their clients. In September 2018, \"The Irish Times\" revealed that U.S. medical device manufacturer Teleflex, had created a Single Malt scheme in July 2018, and reduced their corporate tax rate to circa 3%; and that the Irish State were keeping the matter, \"under consideration\".\n\nIn November 2018, the Irish Government amended the Ireland–Malta tax treaty to prevent the Single Malt BEPS tool being used between Ireland and Malta (it can still be used with the UAE for example). On the same day the closure was announced, LinkedIn in Ireland, identified as a user of the Single Malt tool in 2017, announced in filings that it had sold a major IP asset to its parent, Microsoft (Ireland). In July 2018, it was disclosed in the Irish financial media that Microsoft (Ireland) were preparing a restructure of their Irish BEPS tools into a CAIA (or Green Jersey) Irish tax structure.\n\nIn June 2009, the Irish State established the \"Commission on Taxation\", to review Ireland's tax regime, and included Feargal O'Rourke (\"architect\" of the Double Irish, see above). In September 2009, the Commission recommended that the Irish State provide capital allowances for the acquisition of intangible assets, creating the \"Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets\" (CAIA) BEPS tool. Whereas the Double Irish and Single Malt BEPS tools enable Ireland to act as a \"confidential\" \"Conduit OFC\" for rerouting untaxed profits to places like Bermuda (e.g. it must be \"confidential\" as higher-tax locations would not sign full tax treaties with locations like Bermuda), the CAIA BEPS tool, enables Ireland to act as the \"Sink OFC\" (e.g. the terminus for untaxed profits, like Bermuda).\n\nCAIA uses the accepted tax concept of providing capital allowances for the purchase of physical assets. However, Ireland turns it into a BEPS tool by providing the allowances for the purchase of \"intangible assets\", and particularly \"intellectual property\" assets; and critically, where the owner of the intangible assets is a \"connected party\" (e.g. a Group subsidiary, often located in a tax haven); and has valued the assets for the inter-Group transaction using an Irish IFSC accounting firm.\n\nCAIA \"capitalises\" the tax shield of the Double Irish, and thus materially increases the distortion of the Irish national accounts. This was shown in July 2016 when the Irish CEO had to restate Irish 2015 GDP by 34.4% due to Apple's Q1 2015 \"leprechaun economics\" restructure into a CAIA BEPS tool. A June 2018 report by the EU Parliament's GUE–NGL body showed that Apple doubled the Irish corporate tax shield of its CAIA BEPS tool by financing the acquisition of the IP via Jersey (the report called the CAIA BEPS tool, the \"Green Jersey\"). Whereas the Double Irish and Single Malt have an ETR of less than 1%, the ETR of the CAIA BEPS tool ranges from 0% to 2.5% depending on the date on which the CAIA tool was started (see effective tax rates).\n\nIreland created the first OECD–compliant Knowledge Development Box (\"KDB\"), in the 2015 \"Finance Act\", to further support it's intellectual property BEPS toolkit.\n\nThe KDB behaves like a CAIA BEPS scheme with a cap of 50% (i.e. similar to getting 50%–relief against capitalised IP, for a net effective Irish tax rate of 6.25%). As with the CAIA BEPS scheme, the KDB is limited to specific \"qualifying assets\", however, unlike CAIA tool, these are quite narrowly defined by the 2015 \"Finance Act\".\n\nThe Irish KDB was created with tight conditions to ensure OECD compliance and thus meets the OECD's \"modified Nexus standard\" for IP. This has drawn criticism from Irish tax advisory firms who feel that its use is limited to pharmaceutical (who have the most \"Nexus\" compliant patents/processes), and some niche sectors.\n\nIt is expected these conditions will be relaxed over time through refinements of the 2015 \"Finance Act\"; a route taken by other Irish IP–based BEPS tools:\n\n\nIrish tax-law firms expect the Irish KDB terms will be brought into alignment with the CAIA BEPS tool terms in the future.\n\nA Section 110 Special Purpose Vehicle (\"SPV\") is an Irish tax resident company, which qualifies under Section 110 of the 1997 \"Irish Taxes Consolidation Act\" (“TCA”), by virtue of restricting itself to only holding \"qualifying assets\", for a special tax regime that enables the SPV to attain full tax neutrality (i.e. the SPV pays no Irish corporate taxes). It is a major Irish Debt–based BEPS tool.\n\nSection 110 was created to help International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") legal and accounting firms compete for the administration of global securitisation deals. While they pay no Irish taxes, they contribute circa €100 million annually to the Irish economy from fees paid to the IFSC legal and accounting firms. IFSC firms lobbied the Irish State for successive amendments to the Section 110 legislation, so that by 2011, Section 110 had become an Irish Debt–based BEPS tool, for avoiding tax on Irish and international assets.\n\nIn 2016, it was discovered that U.S. distressed debt funds used Section 110 SPVs, structured by IFSC professional service firms, to avoid material Irish taxes on domestic Irish activities, while State-backed mezzanine funds were using Section 110 SPVs to lower their clients Irish corporate tax liability. Academic studies in 2017 note that Irish Section 110 SPVs operate in a brass plate fashion with little regulatory oversight from the Irish Revenue or Central Bank of Ireland, and have been attracting funds from undesirable activities (e.g. sanctioned Russian banks).\n\nThese abuses were discovered because Section 110 SPVs must file public accounts with the Irish CRO. In 2018 Central Bank of Ireland overhauled the little-used L–QIAIF vehicle, so that is now offers the same tax benefits on Irish assets held via debt as the Section 110 SPV, but without having to file Irish public accounts.\n\nThe Irish QIAIF regime is exempt from all Irish taxes and duties (including VAT and withholding tax), and apart from the VCC wrapper, do not have to file public accounts with the Irish CRO. This has made QIAIF an important \"backdoor\" out of the Irish corporate tax system. The most favoured destination is to Sink OFC Luxembourg, which receives 50% of all outbound Irish foreign direct investment (\"FDI). QIAIFs, with Section 110 SPVs, have made Ireland the 3rd largest Shadow Banking OFC.\n\nWhen the Section 110 SPV Irish domestic tax avoidance scandals surfaced in late 2016, it was due to Irish financial journalists and Dáil Éireann representatives scrutinising the Irish CRO public accounts of U.S. distressed firms. In November 2016 the Central Bank began to overhaul the L-QIAIF regime. In early 2018, the Central Bank upgraded the L-QIAIF regime so that it could replicate the Section 110 SPV (e.g. closed end debt structures), but without needing to file public CRO accounts. In June 2018, the Central Bank announced that €55 billion of U.S. distressed debt assets had transferred out of Section 110 SPVs.\n\nIt is expected that the Irish L–QIAIF will replace the Irish Section 110 SPV as Ireland's main Debt–based BEPS tool for U.S. multinationals in Ireland.\n\nThe ability of foreign institutions to use QIAIFs (and particularly the ICAV-wrapper) to avoid all Irish taxes on Irish assets has been blamed for the bubble in Dublin commercial property (and, by implication, the Dublin housing crisis). This risk was highlighted in 2014 when Central Bank of Ireland consulted the European Systemic Risk Board (\"ESRB\") after lobbying to expand the L-QIAIF regime.\n\nIreland's transfer pricing (\"TP\") based BEPS tools are mostly related to contract manufacturing. By refusing to implement the 2013 EU Accounting Directive (and invoking exemptions on reporting holding company structures until 2022), Ireland enables their TP and IP–based BEPS tools to structure as \"unlimited liability companies\" (ULCs) which do not have to file public accounts with the Irish CRO. In spite of this, many Irish IP–based BEPS tools are so large that tax academics have been able to separate out their scale from filed group accounts (e.g. work of Gabriel Zucman). However, Irish TP–based BEPS tools are smaller, and therefore harder to pick out from a listed multinational's group accounts. In addition, the Irish State, to help obfuscate the activities of the larger and more important IP–based BEPS tools, sometimes present their data as \"manufacturing\" data, and blended in with TP–based BEPS data; the example of how the Irish State obfuscated Apple's Q1 2015 CAIA BEPS tool, by crediting the 2015 leprechaun economics GDP growth rate to contract manufacturing and aircraft leasing activities is a notable case. It is generally regarded that Ireland's main TP–based BEPS tool users are the life sciences manufacturers.\n\nThe \"headline\" tax rate is the rate of taxation that is applied to the profits that a tax-code deems to be taxable after deductions. The \"effective\" tax rate is the rate of taxation implied by the actual quantum of tax paid versus profits before all deductions are applied. The gap between the Irish corporate \"headline\" rate of 12.5%, and the much lower Irish corporate \"effective\" rate of 2–4%, is a source of controversy:\n\nThe Irish State asserts Ireland's ETR similar to the Irish \"headline\" CT rate of 12.5%. This is an important issue as Ireland's BEPS tools, the core of Ireland's , rely on having a global network of full bilateral tax treaties that accept Ireland's BEPS tools; major economies do not sign full bilateral tax treaties with known tax havens (e.g. Bermuda or Jersey). When the EU Commission published their findings on Apple's Irish BEPS tools in 2016 (see below), Brazil became the first G–20 economy to blacklist Ireland as a tax haven, and suspended the Brazil–Ireland bilateral tax treaty.\n\nIn 2014, Ireland refused to implement the 2013 EU Accounting Directive, and invoked exemptions on reporting holding company structures until 2022, so that multinationals can register as Irish \"unlimited liability companies\" (ULCs), which do not have to file public accounts with the Irish CRO. However, as most foreign multinationals in Ireland are major U.S. listed companies (see \"Table 1\"), tax academics have been able to estimate their Irish ETR from U.S. filings. In addition, the 2014–2016 EU investigation into Apple, Ireland's largest company, produced detail on Apple's Irish ETR from 2004–2014.\n\nNotable independent research from 1994 to 2018, has estimated Ireland's overall aggregate effective tax rate for foreign corporates at between 2.2% to 4.5%:\n\nOver the years, the largest U.S. multinationals in Ireland, who are both Ireland's largest companies and pay most of Ireland's corporation tax (see low tax economy), have filed various accounts showing their Irish ETR. As discussed above, because Ireland refused to ratify the 2013 EU Accounting Directive, many of these multinationals have switched to \"unlimited liability companies\" in Ireland, which do not file accounts; thus the information is only available in a few cases. However, where U.S. multinationals have disclosed Irish financials, they all imply an Irish ETR of less than 1 percent.\n\nExamples are (see \"Table 1\" for rankings):\n\n\nIrish BEPS tools are not overtly marketed as brochures showing near-zero effective tax rates would damage Ireland's ability to sign and operate bilateral tax treaties (i.e. higher-tax countries do not sign full treaties with known tax havens). However, since the Irish financial crisis, some Irish tax law firms in the IFSC produced CAIA brochures openly marketing that its ETR was 2.5%.\n\nApple is Ireland's largest company, with Irish 2017 revenues that exceed the combined Irish 2017 revenues of the next 5 largest Irish companies added together. Apple has been in Ireland since at least December 1980, when it opened its first Irish plant in Holyhill, in Cork. Apple's tax strategies with Irish BEPS tools had long been under suspicion by tax academics and investigative journalists.\n\nIn May 2013, Apple's Irish tax practices were questioned by a U.S. bipartisan investigation of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigation. The investigation aimed to examine whether Apple used offshore structures, in conjunction with arrangements, to shift profits from the U.S. to Ireland. Senators Carl Levin and John McCain drew light on what they referred to as a special tax arrangement between Apple and Ireland which allowed Apple to pay a corporate tax rate of less than 2%. The investigation labelled Ireland as the \"holy grail of tax avoidance\".\n\nIn June 2014, the EU Commission launched an investigation into Apple's tax practices in Ireland for the period 2004–2014, whose summary findings were published on 30 August 2016 in a 4–page press release; with a 130–page report, including partially redacted information on Apple's Irish business (e.g. profits, employees, Board minutes etc.), published on 30 August 2016. Commissioner Margrethe Vestager stated: \"In fact, this selective treatment allowed Apple to pay an effective corporate tax rate of 1 per cent on its European profits in 2003, down to 0.005 per cent in 2014\".\n\nIn February 2014, as a result of Bloomberg's \"Special Investigation\" and Trinity College Professor Dr. Jim Stewart's ETR calculations (see above), the \"architect\" of Ireland's Double Irish BEPS tool, PricewaterhouseCoopers tax-partner Feargal O'Rourke, went on \"RTÉ Radio\" to state that: \"there was a hole the size of the Grand Canyon\", in the analysis. O'Rourke also referenced the PricewaterhouseCoopers/World Bank survey that Ireland's ETR was circa 12%.\n\nIn December 2014, the Irish Department of Finance, gathered a panel of Irish experts (but no international experts) to estimate Irish corporate ETR for the Committee on Finance Public Expenditure. The results, summarised on Section 2 (page 13) of the report, showed all of the Irish experts, with the exception of Dr. Jim Stewart, agreed with Feargal O'Rourke and PricewaterhouseCoopers:\n\n\nIn August 2016, when the EU Commission published the results of their 2–year detailed investigation of Apple's tax structure in Ireland (see above), showing that Apple's ETR in 2014 was 0.005%, the Irish Revenue Commissioners stated that they: \"had collected the full amount of tax that was due from Apple in accordance with the Irish law\".\n\nIn December 2017, the Department of Finance published a report they commissioned on the Irish corporate tax code by UCC economist, Seamus Coffey. The report estimated that Ireland's effective corporation tax rate for 2015 was 7.2%, based on the \"Net Operating Surplus Method\" (which accepts IP BEPS flows as tax deductible costs); and had fallen from 11.2% in 2008 (section 9.4 page 128).\n\nAn Irish corporate tax inversion is a strategy in which a foreign multinational corporation acquires or merges with an Irish–based company, then shifts its legal place of incorporation to Ireland to avail itself of Ireland's favourable corporate tax regime. The multinational's majority ownership, \"effective headquarters\" and executive management remain in its home jurisdiction. Ireland's corporate tax code has a holding company regime that enables the foreign multinational's new Irish–based \"legal headquarters\", to gain full Irish tax-relief on Irish withholding taxes and payment of dividends from Ireland.\n\nAlmost all tax inversions to Ireland have come from the US, and to a lesser degree, the UK (see below). The first US tax inversions to Ireland were Ingersoll Rand and Accenture 2009. As of November 2018, Ireland was the destination for the largest US corporate tax inversion in history, the $81 billion merger of Medtronic and Covidien in 2015. The US tax code's anti-avoidance rules prohibit a US company from creating a new \"legal\" headquarters in Ireland while its main business is in the US (known as a \"self-inversion\"). Until April 2016, the US tax code would only consider the inverted company as foreign (i.e. outside the U.S. tax-code), where the inversion was part of an acquisition, and the Irish target was at least 20% of the value of the combined group. Although the Irish target had to be over 40% of the combined group for the inversion to be fully considered as outside of the U.S. tax-code.\n\nOnce inverted, the US company can use Irish multinational BEPS strategies to achieve an effective tax rate well below the Irish headline rate of 12.5% on non–U.S. income, and also reduce US taxes on US income. In September 2014, \"Forbes Magazine\" quoted research that estimated a US inversion to Ireland reduced the US multinational's \"aggregate\" tax rate from above 30% to well below 20%.\n\nIn July 2015, \"The Wall Street Journal\" noted that Ireland's lower ETR made US multinationals who inverted to Ireland highly acquisitive of other US firms (i.e. they could afford to pay more to acquire US competitors to re-domicile them to Ireland), and listed the post-inversion acquisitions of Activis/Allergan, Endo, Mallinckrodt and Horizon.\n\nIn July 2017, the Irish Central Statistics Office (CSO) warned that tax inversions to Ireland artificially inflated Ireland's GDP data (e.g. without providing any Irish tax revenue).\n\n, Bloomberg ranks Ireland as the most popular destination for U.S. tax inversions, attracting almost a quarter of the 85 inversions since 1983:\n, the table below is the Bloomberg list of the 21 U.S. corporate tax inversions to Ireland (note, Bloomberg lists U.S. corporate tax inversions by order of the year in which they first left the U.S. which is used below). The table also includes some known aborted U.S. tax inversions to Ireland. All of the U.S. multinationals listed below are listed on stock exchanges and the Market Capitalisation is as per 21 November 2018. \"Spin-off inversions\" and \"self-inversions\" happen outside of the U.S. (e.g. the corporate/corporate parent had previously left the U.S.), and thus do not need an acquisition of an Irish—based corporate to execute the move to Ireland, as per U.S. tax code requirements (see above).\n\nIn April 2016, the Obama administration announced new tax rules to increase the threshold for a U.S. corporate tax inversion to be considered a \"foreign company\", and thus escape U.S. taxation. The new rules were directly designed to block the proposed $160 billion merger of U.S.–based Pfizer and Irish–based Allergan, which would have been the largest corporate tax inversion in history. The rule changes worked by disregarding acquisitions a target (e.g. Allergan), had made in the 3 years prior to the inversion, in meeting the requirement for the target to be 40% of the merged group.\n\nIn December 2017, the Trump administration's U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) overhauled the U.S. tax-code and replicated many of the changes the UK made to their tax-code in 2009–2012 to successfully combat inversions (see below). In particular, the TCJA moved the U.S to a hybrid–\"territorial tax\" system, reduced the headline rate from 35% to 21% and introduced a new GILTI–FDII–BEAT regime designed to remove incentives for U.S. multinationals to execute corporate tax inversions to Ireland.\n\nIn December 2017, U.S technology firm Vantiv, the world's largest payment processing company, confirmed it had abandoned its plan to execute a corporate tax inversion to Ireland. In Q1 2018, Pfizer disclosed that post the TCJA its global tax rate for 2019 would be 17%, similar to the circa 15–16% 2019 tax rate of past U.S. corporate tax inversions to Ireland, Eaton, Allergan, and Medtronic. In March 2018, the Head of Life Sciences in \"Goldman Sachs\", Jami Rubin, stated that: \"Now that [U.S.] corporate tax reform has passed, the advantages of being an inverted company are less obvious\". In August 2018, U.S. multinational Afilias, who had been headquartered in Ireland since 2001, announced that as a result of the TCJA, it was moving back to the U.S.\n\n, there have been no further U.S. corporate tax inversions to Ireland since the 2016–2017 rule changes by the Obama, and the Trump administrations.\n\nApple's Q1 2015 leprechaun economics re-structure of their Irish BEPS tool, is considered by some economists to be a quasi–inversion. Whereas Apple did not relocate its corporate headquarters to Ireland like Pfizer tried to do with Allergan, Apple was able to use the CAIA BEPS tool to legally re-locate $300 billion of IP, equivalent to all of Apple's non–U.S. business, to Ireland. While the Obama administration blocked the proposed $160 billion Pfizer–Allergan tax inversion to Ireland in 2016 (see above), Apple completed a much larger transaction in Q1 2015, that remained unknown until January 2018. In July 2018, Irish newspaper \"The Sunday Business Post\" reported that Microsoft was planning a similar IP–based quasi–inversion to Ireland, as Apple executed in 2015.\n\nIreland's largest law firm, \"Authur Cox\", records the move of \"Experian plc\" to Ireland in 2006, as the first UK corporate tax inversion to Ireland. Experian was formed in 2006 from the de-merger of UK conglomerate GUS plc, but most of Experian's business was U.S. based (e.g. it had a limited connection to the UK).\n\nBetween 2007 and 2009, several UK multinationals \"re-domiciled\" to Ireland: WPP plc, United Business Media plc, Henderson Group plc, Shire plc and Charter (Engineering) plc. Unlike the U.S. tax code, the UK tax-code did not require the inversion to be executed by way of an acquisition of an Irish–based corporate who was at least 20% of the merged group. However, in 2009, the UK Labour government switched to a \"territorial tax\" system, and over 2009 to 2012, the UK Conservative government introduced a number of other corporate tax reforms including reduction of the UK headline CT rate to 20%, creation of new BEPS tools (e.g. a \"patent box\"), and re-structure of \"controlled foreign corporation\" (CFC) rules. By 2014, the UK \"HMRC\" reported that most of the UK multinationals that had inverted to Ireland had either returned to the UK (e.g., WPP plc, United Business Media plc, Henderson plc), or were about to be acquired by U.S. multinationals as part of a U.S. tax inversion (e.g. Shire plc).\n\nThe UK corporate tax reforms not only reversed many of Irish tax inversions but in 2014, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that \"In U.S. tax inversion Deals, U.K. is now a winner\". , the UK had received the 3rd–largest number of U.S. corporate tax inversions in history, only ranking behind Ireland and Bermuda in popularity (see above).\n\n, there have been no further UK corporate tax inversions to Ireland since the 2009–2012 rule changes by the Labour, and the Conservative governments.\n\nIreland's largest law firm, \"Authur Cox\", records the move of \"Pentair\" to Ireland in 2014, as the first Swiss corporate tax inversion to Ireland. However, Pentair was a U.S.–controlled firm that had previously inverted to Switzerland, and moved to Ireland (without a corporate acquisition), in 2014 to make it more attractive to a larger U.S. corporate tax inversion, which Emerson Electric attempted in 2016, however the change in the U.S. tax-code (see above), meant that Emmerson decided to abandon the inversion, and instead purchased a division of called \"Pentair Valves\" for $3.15 billion; the renaming Pentair group re-domiciled to the UK in 2018.\n\n, outside of U.S. and UK inversions to Ireland, there have been no other recorded corporate tax inversions to Ireland from other jurisdictions.\n\nIreland is labelled a both a corporate tax haven, due to its BEPS tools (e.g. Double Irish, Single Malt and CAIA), and a traditional tax haven, due to QIAIFs. The topic is covered in more detail in Ireland as a tax haven, however, the main facts regarding Ireland's corporate tax haven status are:\nIreland does not appear on the 2017 OECD list of tax havens; only Trinidad and Tobago is on the 2017 OECD list, and no OECD member has ever been listed. Ireland does not appear on the 2017 EU list of 17 tax havens, or the EU's list of 47 \"greylist\" tax havens; again, no EU-28 country has ever been listed by the EU.\n\nIn September 2008, \"The New York Times\" reported that \"Britain is facing a potential new problem: an exodus of British companies fleeing the tax system\". During 2007–2008, several major UK multinationals executed corporate tax inversions to Ireland. During 2009–2012, both the Labour Government and the Conservative Government, overhauled the UK corporate tax code, switching from a \"worldwide tax\" system to a \"territorial tax\" system. By 2014, the UK \"HMRC\" reported most of the UK firms that inverted to Ireland had returned to the UK (e.g., WPP plc, United Business Media plc, Henderson plc), or were about to be acquired by U.S. multinationals as part of a U.S. tax inversion (e.g. Shire plc).\n\n, since the UK overhauled its tax code, there have been no inversions of UK firms to Ireland; of the 3 main UK–controlled firms in Ireland (see \"Table 1\"):\n\n\nWhile national tax policy is excluded from EU treaties, the EU has challenged Ireland's tax code under State-aid legislation. Seamus Coffey's 2016 \"Review of Ireland's Corporation Tax Code\" chronicled how the EU withdrew the exemption from State-aid rules for Ireland's special tax rate of 10% in 1996–1998, however, Ireland countered the EU withdrawal by lowering the entire Irish standard rate of corporate tax from 40% to 12.5% over 1996–2003 (see ). In October 1994, the \"Financial Times\" chronicled how the EU Commission forced the closure of the Double Irish BEPS tool in 2015 on the threat of a full State-aid investigation into Ireland's tax code. However, Ireland won a concession from the EU to allow existing users of the Double Irish (e.g. Google, Facebook, Microsoft) to keep using it until 2020, and developed replacement BEPS tools, namely the Single Malt and CAIA BEPS tools. In August 2016, the EU Commission levied the largest corporate tax fine in history, on Apple's Irish Double Irish BEPS tool from 2004–2014, using State-aid rules.\n\nIn January 2017, the EU Commissioner for Taxation, Pierre Moscovici, explicitly stated to an Irish State Oireachtas Finance Committee that \"Ireland is not a tax haven\"; however, in January 2018 Moscovi called Ireland and the Netherlands \"tax black holes\". In January 2018, Ireland was accused of \"tax dumping\" by German political leaders.\n\nIn March 2018, the EU Commission proposed a \"Digital Services Tax\" (DST), targeted at U.S. technology firms using Irish BEPS tools. The DST is designed to \"override\" Ireland's BEPS tools and force a minimum level of EU tax on U.S. technology firms. The EU have proposed the DST should be a 3% tax on revenues which would translate into an effective 10–15% tax rate (using pre-tax margins of 20–30% for Apple, Google and Microsoft); it is also expensible against national tax, and so the DST would reduce net Irish tax (e.g. Google Ireland would offset its DST against Irish CT).\n\nIn April 2018, the EU Commission's GDPR rules forced Facebook to move 1.5 billion of the 1.9 billion Facebook accounts hosted in Ireland ( 79% of the 2.4 billion total global Facebook accounts), back to the U.S. The April 2018 Irish High Court ruling in the Max Schrems EU data-protection case could make Ireland even less attractive to Facebook.\n\nThe EU Commission's long-standing desire to introduce a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (\"CCCTB\"), would have a more severe effect on Ireland's CT system.\n\nThe U.S. has had a contradictory approach to Ireland's CT system. U.S. investigations, from the first U.S. IRS study in 1981, up to and including 2013 U.S. McCain–Levin Senate investigations into Apple's tax structures, label Ireland as a \"tax haven\" for U.S. multinationals. However, it was the EU and not the U.S., that forced Ireland to close its Double Irish BEPS tool in 2015. While the Obama administration supported the McCain–Levin findings on Apple, it came to Apple's defense in 2016 when the EU Commission fined Apple €13 billion for taxes avoided over 2004–2014.\n\nThis contradiction is chronicled in \"political compromises\". The source of the contradiction is ascribed to the findings of U.S. tax academic, James R. Hines Jr.; Hines is the most cited author on tax haven research, and his important 1994 Hines–Rice paper was one of the first to use the term\" \"profit shifting\"\". The 1994 Hines–Rice paper showed that \"low foreign tax rates [from tax havens] ultimately enhance U.S. tax collections\". Hines' insight that the U.S. is the largest beneficiary from tax havens was confirmed by others, and dictated U.S. policy towards tax havens, including the 1996 \"check-the-box\" rules, and U.S. hostility to OECD attempts in curbing Ireland's BEPS tools.\n\nHowever, by 2014 Ireland had become the leading destination for U.S. corporate tax inversions, and in 2016, the Obama administration decided to move against Ireland's CT system by amending the U.S. tax-code to block the proposed $160 billion Pfizer–Allergan Irish corporate tax inversion, which would have been the largest tax inversion in history.\n\nThe most serious threat to Ireland's CT system, and Ireland's economic model came in December 2017 with the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) by the Trump administration. Parts of the TCJA are specifically targeted at Irish BEPS tools as used by U.S. multinationals in Ireland. The TCJA introduces many of the changes that the UK made to its tax code in 2009-2012, including moving to a \"territorial tax\" system and reduction of headline rate of tax; the UK changes reversed many of the UK corporate tax inversions to Ireland. However the TCJA goes even further and the GILTI–FDII–BEAT tax regime are a more severe \"carrot and stick\" to encourage U.S. multinationals to re-locate their substantive operations (and IP), back to the U.S.\n\nHowever, the TCJA is large and complex, and in 2018, tax experts have noted that errors and flaws in the TCJA, could be a \"boom for Ireland\", over the next few years.\n\nThe above post–2009 UK, EU and U.S. countermeasures against Ireland's corporate tax system, and by extension Ireland's economic model, have been a cause of concern in Ireland, and even the \"architect\" of Ireland's BEPS tools, PricewaterhouseCoopers tax-partner, Feargal O'Rourke, has warned on the sustainability of Irish CT revenues.\n\nIn December 2017, the Irish Government published a study on the sustainability of its corporate tax system by University College Cork economist Seamus Coffey (called the \"Coffey Report\"). Coffey reported that Irish CT revenues were sustainable to 2020, but caveated that given the concentration of CT revenues to a handful of U.S. multinationals, a shock to CT revenues was \"inevitable\".\n\nIn Q2 2018, an IMF country report on Ireland, while noting the significant exposure of Ireland's economy to U.S. corporates, concluded that the TCJA may not be as effective as Washington expects in countering Ireland as a U.S. corporate tax haven. In writing its report, the IMF conducted confidential anonymous interviews with Irish corporate tax experts.\n\nHowever, in June 2018, the former IMF mission-chief for Ireland Ashoka Mody, who oversaw Ireland's bailout during the 2009–2012 Irish financial crisis, warned that in relation to TCJA:\n\nThe following are the historical rates of Irish corporation tax since 1994.\n\nA special rate of 10% for companies in manufacturing (and the Shannon Free Zone), was introduced in 1980–81 (with EU State-aid approval), and extended to the financial services in the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) zone in 1987 (with EU State-aid approval); due to EU decision to withdraw EU State-aid approval in 1996–1998, the special rate was phased-out and ended on 31 December 2003 for new schemes, with expiry for all existing IFSC schemes in 2005, and all existing manufacturing schemes by 2010. To counter the EU's decision to withdraw State-aid approval for Ireland's special rate, the Irish State reduced the Irish \"standard rate\" of corporation tax from 40% in 1995, to 12.5% by 2003; splitting the standard rate into trading and non-trading rates in 2000.\n\nIreland's corporate tax code has gone through distinct phases of development, from building a separate identity from the British system, to most distinctively, post the creation of the Irish International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") in 1987, becoming a \"low tax\" knowledge based (i.e. focus intgangible assets) multinational economy. This has not been without controversy and complaint from both Ireland's EU partners, and also from the US (whose multinationals, for specific reasons, comprise almost all of the major foreign multinationals in Ireland).\n\nIt was only with the acceptance of the Anglo-Irish Treaty by both the Dáil and British House of Commons in 1922 that the mechanisms of a truly independent state begin to emerge in the Irish Free State. In keeping with many other decisions of the newly independent state the Provisional Government and later the Free State government continued with the same practices and policies of the Irish administration with regard to corporate taxation.\n\nThis continuation meant that the British system of \"corporate profits taxation\" (\"CPT\") in addition to income tax on the profits of firms was kept. The CPT was a relatively new innovation in the United Kingdom and had only been introduced in the years after World War I, and was widely believed at the time to have been a temporary measure. However, the system of firms being taxed firstly through income tax and then through the CPT was to remain until the late seventies and the introduction of Corporation Tax, which combined the income and corporation profits tax in one.\n\nDuring the years of W. T. Cosgrave's governments, the principal aim with regard to fiscal policy was to reduce expenditure and follow that with similar reductions in taxation. This policy of tax reduction did not extend to the rate of the CPT, but companies did benefit from two particular measures of the Cosgrave government. Firstly, and probably the achievement of which the Cumann na nGaedheal administration was most proud, was the reduction by 50% in the rate of income tax from 6 shillings in the pound to 3 shillings. While this measure benefited all income earners, be they private individuals or incorporated companies, a number of adjustments in the Finance Acts, culminating in 1928, increased the allowance on which firms were not subject to taxation under the CPT. This allowance was increased from £500, the rate at the time of independence, to £10,000 in 1928. This measure was in part to compensate Irish firms for the continuation of the CPT after it has been abolished in the United Kingdom.\n\nA measure which marked the last years of the Cumann na nGaedheal government, and one that was out of kilter with their general free trade policy, but which came primarily as a result of Fianna Fáil pressure over the 'protection' of Irish industry, was the introduction of a higher rate of CPT for foreign firms. This measure survived until 1948, when the Inter-Party government rescinded it, as many countries with which the government was attempting to come to double taxation treaties viewed it as discriminatory.\n\nThe near twenty years of Fianna Fáíl government between from 1931 to 1948, cannot be said to have been a time where much effort was expended on changing or analysing the taxation system of corporations. Indeed, only one policy sticks out during those year of Fianna Fáil rule; being the continued reduction in the level of the allowance on which firms were to be exempt from taxation under the CPT, from £10,000 when Cumman na nGaehael left office, to £5,000 in 1932 and finally to £2,500 in 1941. The impact of this can be seen in the increasing importance of CPT as a percentage of government revenue, rising from and less than 1% of tax revenue in the first decade of the Free State to 3.64% in the decade 1942–43 to 1951–52. This increase in revenue from the CPT was due to more firms being in the tax net, as well as the reduction in allowances. The increased tax net can be seen from the fact that between 1932–33 and 1938–39, the number of firms paying CPT increased by over 33%. One other aspect of the Fianna Fáil government which bears all the fingerprints of Seán Lemass, was the 1946 decision to allow mining companies to write off all capital expenditure against tax over five years.\n\nThe period between after the late 1950s and up to the mid-1970s can be viewed as a period of radical change in the evolution of the Irish Corporate Taxations system. The increasing realisation of the government that Ireland would be entering into an age of increasing free trade encouraged a number of reforms of the tax system. By the mid-1970s, a number of amendments, additions and changes had been made to the CPT, these included fifteen-year tax holidays for exporting firms, the decision by the government to allow full depreciation in 1971 and in 1973, and the Section 34 of the Finance Act, which allowed total tax relief in respect of royalties and other income from licenses patented in Ireland.\n\nThis period from c.1956 to c.1975, is probably the most influential on the evolution of the Irish corporate tax system and marked the development of an 'Irish' corporate tax system, rather than continuing with a version of the British model.\n\nThis period saw the creation of Corporation Tax, which combined the Capital Gains, Income and Corporation Profits Tax that firms previously had to pay. Future changes to the corporate tax system, such as the measures implemented by various governments over the last twenty years can be seen as a continuation of the policies of this period. The introduction in 1981 of the 10% tax on manufacturing was simply the easiest way to adjust to the demands of the EEC to abolish the export relief, which the EEC viewed as discriminatory. With the accession to the EEC, the advantages of this policy became increasingly obvious to both the Irish government and to foreign multi-nationals; by 1982 over 80% of companies who located in Ireland cited the taxation policy as the primary reason they did so.\n\nThe Irish International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") was created in Dubin in 1987 by Taoiseach Charles Haughey with an EU approved 10% special economic zone corporate tax rate for global financial firms within its 11-hectare site. The creation of the IFSC is often considered the birth of the Celtic Tiger and the driver of its first phase of growth in the 1990s.\n\nIn response to EU pressure to phase out the 10% IFSC rate by the end 2005, the overall Irish corporation tax was reduced to 12.5% on trading income, from 32%, effectively turning the entire Irish country into an IFSC. This gave the second boost to the Celtic Tiger from 2000 up until the Irish economic crisis in 2009.\n\nIn the 1998 Budget (in December 1997) Finance Minister, Charlie McCreevy introduced the legislation for a new regime of corporation tax that led to the introduction of the 12.5% rate of corporation tax for trading income from 1 January 2003. The legislation was contained in section 71 of the Finance Act 1999 and provided for a phased introduction of the 12.5% rate from 32% for the financial year 1998 to 12.5% commencing from 1 January 2003. A higher rate of corporation tax of 25% was introduced for passive income, income from a foreign trade and some development and mining activities. Manufacturing relief, effectively a 10% rate of corporation tax, was ended on 31 December 2002. For companies that were claiming this relief before 23 July 1998, it would still be available until 31 January 2010. The 10% rate for IFSC activities ended on 31 December 2005 and after this date, these companies moved to the 12.5% rate provided their trade qualified as an Irish trading activity.\n\nThe additional passing of the important Irish Taxes Consolidation Act, 1997 (“TCA”) by Charlie McCreevy laid the foundation for the new vehicles and structures that would become used by IFSC law and accounting firms to help global multinationals use Ireland as a platform to avoid non-US taxes (and even the 12.5% Irish corporate tax rate). These vehicles would become famous as the Double Irish, Single Malt and the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets tax arrangements. The Act also created the Irish Section 110 SPV, which would make the IFSC the largest securitisation location in the EU.\n\nThe Irish financial crises created unprecedented forces in the Economy. Irish banks, the largest domestic corporate taxpayers, faced insolvency, while Irish public and private debt-to-GDP metrics approached the highest levels in the OECD. The Irish Government needed foreign capital to re-balance their overleveraged economy. Directly, and indirectly, they amended many Irish corporate tax structures from 2009-2015 to effectively make them \"zero-tax\" structures for foreign multinationals and foreign investors. The US Bureau of Economic Analysis (\"BEA\") \"effective\" Irish CT rate, fell to 2.5%.\n\nThey materially expanded the capital allowances for intangible assets scheme in the 2009 Finance Act. This would encourage US multinationals to locate intellectual property assets in Ireland (as opposed to the Caribbean, as per the double Irish scheme), which would albeit artificially, raise Irish economic statistics to improve Ireland's \"headline\" Debt-to-GDP metric. They also indirectly, allowed US distressed debt funds to use the Irish Section 110 SPV to enable them to avoid Irish taxes on the circa €100bn of domestic Irish assets they bought from NAMA (and other financial institutions) from 2012-2016.\n\nWhile these BEPS schemes were successful in capital, they had downsides. US multinational tax schemes lead to large distortions in Irish GNI/GNP/GDP statistics. When Apple \"onshored\" their ASI subsidiary in January 2015, it caused Irish GDP to rise 26.3% in one quarter (\"leprechaun economics\"). Foreign multinationals were now 80% of corporate taxes, and concentrated in a smaller group. In response, the Government introduced \"modified GNI\" (or GNI*) in 2017, which was circa 40% below 2017 Irish GDP, and a paired back of some BEPS schemes to improve corporation tax sustainability.\n\nIreland's BEPS tax strategy led it to become labelled as one of the top 5 global conduit OFCs, and has come under attack from the US and the EU (Apple's largest tax fine in history). Under pressure from the EU, Ireland closed down the double Irish in 2015, which was described as the largest tax avoidance scheme in history. However, Ireland replaced it with the new single malt system, and an expanded capital allowances scheme. More targeted responses have come in the form of the US 2017 TCJA (esp. FDII and GILTI rates), and the EU's 2018 impending Digital Services Tax.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917962", "title": "Peter Habeler", "text": "Peter Habeler\n\nPeter Habeler (born 22 July 1942) is an Austrian mountaineer. He was born in Mayrhofen, Austria. He developed an interest in mountain climbing at age six.\n\nAmong his accomplishments as a mountaineer are his first ascents in the Rocky Mountains. He was also the first European to climb on the Big Walls in Yosemite National Park.\n\nHe began climbing with Reinhold Messner in 1969. Several accomplishments in mountaineering followed. The most notable event was the first ascent without supplemental oxygen of Mount Everest on 8 May 1978 together with Messner, which was previously thought to be impossible. A year after his climb on Everest he published \"Lonely Victory (\"Der einsame Sieg\". Autor: Eberhard Fuchs)\" in 1978. Habeler set further records by descending from the summit to the South Col in only one hour and climbing the North Face of the Eiger in ten hours.\n\nOther eight-thousanders (mountains over 8,000 meters) that Habeler has summited are Cho Oyu, Nanga Parbat, Kangchenjunga and Gasherbrum I. He has also climbed Yerupaja Chico (6089 m) in Peru's Cordillera Huayhuash. The ascent of Gasherbrum I was made with Messner in 1975, Alpine-style in three days, and is seen by some as ushering in a new era of Alpine-style ascents of eight-thousanders, in contrast to the \"siege\" tactics which had largely prevailed to this time. It was the first time an eight-thousander had been climbed Alpine-style. Habeler attempted to climb Everest again in 2000 but failed to do so due to fluid in his lungs.\n\nHabeler became a skiing instructor at age twenty one and founded the Peter Habeler Ski and Mountaineering School in his hometown of Mayrhofen, Austria. The school is now run by his son, though Habeler still teaches on occasion.\n\nAt age 74, he repeated an ascent on The Eiger's north face with David Lama.\n"}
{"id": "1917973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917973", "title": "The Hippos", "text": "The Hippos\n\nThe Hippos were an American rock band formed in 1995 in Los Angeles, California, and later disbanded in 2002. During the band's lifetime they released 3 full-length albums. Their early work is best classified as part of the third wave of ska music, or as ska-punk, though in the later years of their career the band transitioned to a more synthesizer-driven power pop and rock sound.\n\nThe Hippos formed in Los Angeles, California in 1995 with a lineup of Ariel Rechtshaid on vocals and guitar, James Bairian on bass, Louis Castle on trumpet, Danny Rukasin on trombones, Roman Fleysher on saxophone, James' older brother Brandon Bairian on auxiliary percussion, and Kyle Briggs on drums. They self-released two cassette demos entitled \"Spreading the Cheese\" and \"Attack of the Killer Cheese\" and began playing shows around southern California, establishing themselves among a prolific ska scene including bands such as Reel Big Fish, No Doubt, Buck-O-Nine, Dance Hall Crashers, Save Ferris, and The Aquabats.\n\nBy 1996, the band added Rich Zahniser, formerly of The Goodwin Club, on trombone and had attracted the attention of Fueled by Ramen Records and Stiff Dog Records and entered the studio with producer Loren Israel to record their first album, \"Forget the World\". Jointly released February 1997 through Fueled by Ramen and Stiff Dog Records, the album was essentially a traditional ska punk effort focusing on upbeat tempos and heavy brass instrumentation. It afforded the band their first national tours at a time when ska and punk rock were gaining national attention. The band toured on and off in support of \"Forget the World\" for over a year. In 1998, the band's relationship with Stiff Dog Records ended and the record was re-pressed, this time by Vagrant Records. Around this time saxophone player Roman Fleysher and auxiliary percussion player Brandon Bairian both left the band, with Roman going on to join The Mighty Mighty Bosstones.\n\nBy 1999 the band had signed to major label Interscope Records and released their second album, \"Heads Are Gonna Roll\". Musically the album found the band transitioning to a more power pop sound, using fewer ska rhythms and instead incorporating synthesizers. It was their most successful album and their only major-label release. The song \"Wasting My Life\" received airplay on some radio stations. The band toured the United States and Australia in support of the album, including stints on the Warped Tour during 1999 and 2000.\n\nIn 2000, during tours in support of \"Heads Are Gonna Roll\", drummer Kyle Briggs left the group. Over the next few years the band rehearsed and recorded new songs with Nate Morton and other drummers, expanding their use of keyboards, synthesizers, and programming. However, the members drifted into other projects and it became apparent that the band would not continue on together. They quietly disbanded, but released a posthumous self-titled album in 2003 through Olympic Records. The product of several months of recording demos in 2000, the album completed their transition from traditional ska punk to synth-driven power pop. \n\nFollowing the band's breakup the members moved on to other musical projects. Louis Castle and James Bairian formed the now defunct band Dirty Little Secret, and co-founded and operate a commercial music house called Headquarters Music. They have done film scoring, starting with the DTV title Connor's War in 2006, which was directed by Castle's father Nick Castle. As The Gifted, the duo handle music production and composition, and scored Southbound, a 2015 Horror anthology film. They have also scored or contributed music to XX, Body at Brighton Rock, and Ready or Not. \n\nAriel Rechtshaid played in Dirty Little Secret for a brief period before joining the group Foreign Born, but more recently has focused exclusively on music production and songwriting work, working with artists such as Haim, Vampire Weekend, Taking Back Sunday, We Are Scientists, Plain White Tees, Cass McCombs, Snoop Dogg, and many more. In addition to being nominated for Producer of the Year Grammy at the 2014 Grammy Awards, two albums featuring his production work have won Grammy awards: Modern Vampires of the City by Vampire Weekend won Best Alternative Music Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards and 25 by Adele won Album of the Year at the 2017 Grammy Awards. \n\nRich Zahniser formed the now defunct band Southbase, performed as a touring member with several bands, and is active in music production and composition as one half of The Trust.\n\nDanny Rukasin became a band manager for developing artists Hellogoodbye, Man Overboard, For The Foxes, and more for Working Group Artist Management.\n\nSaxophone player Roman Fleysher went on to join The Mighty Mighty Bosstones in 1998 and still occasionally plays with them.\n\nKyle Briggs went on to form the band Tripod, in which he played from 2000 to 2003. In 2006 he relocated to Portland, Oregon where he released a solo album under the name Long Distance Runner and joined the bands Junkface and Pine. He has also acted as editor, sound mixer, producer, and composer as well.\n\nNate Morton, who drummed on some tracks on the Hippos (2003) and toured with the band in the US after the departure of Briggs, is now the drummer of the house band of The Voice, among many other accomplishments. \n\nGarrett Ray, another of three drummers on The Hippos (2003), was the original drummer of Dirty Little Secret and Foreign Born, and is currently a frequent collaborator with Rechtshaid on the records he produces. \n\nBlair Sinta, the final of the three drummers on The Hippos (2003) and the touring drummer for their final Australian tour, has toured with Josh Grobin, Alanis Morissette, Annie Lennox, and Stevie Nicks among many others, and now runs a home drum tracking business.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917977", "title": "8 Man", "text": "8 Man\n\nThe manga was published in Weekly Shōnen Magazine and ran from 1963 to 1966. The anime series, produced by Eiken with the TCJ Animation Center, was broadcast on Tokyo Broadcasting System, and ran from November 17, 1963, to December 31, 1964, with a total of 56 episodes (plus the \"farewell\" special episode, \"Goodbye, Eightman\").\n\nMurdered by criminals, Detective Yokoda's body is retrieved by Professor Tani and taken to his laboratory. There, Tani performs an experiment that has failed seven times; Yokoda is the eighth subject to have his life force transferred into an android body. For the first time, the experiment succeeds. Yokoda is reborn as the armor-skinned android 8 Man, able to dash at impossible speeds, as well as shape-shift into other people. He shifts himself into Yokoda, this time christening himself as \"Hachiro Azuma\". He keeps this identity a secret, known only to Tani and his police boss Chief Tanaka. Even his girlfriend Sachiko and friend Ichiro do not know he is an android. As 8-Man, Hachiro fights crime (even bringing his own murderers to justice). To rejuvenate his powers, he smokes \"energy\" cigarettes that he carries in a cigarette case on his belt.\n\nIn Japan, the character's origin actually varies significantly between the original manga, the TV series, and the live-action movie. In the original Japanese manga and TV series, the character's name does not change when he is reborn as 8 Man. The \"Detective Yokoda\" name was created for the live-action version. In the manga, Detective Azuma is trapped in a warehouse and gunned down, while the TV series has him killed when he is run over by a car. Also, in the Japanese story, the character is called \"8 Man\" because he is considered an extra member of the Japanese police force. There are seven regular police precincts and 8 Man is treated as an unofficial eighth precinct all to himself.\n\nThe Japanese manga was presented as serial novella stories along with a set of one-shot stories. Many of the stories were edited down and adapted for the TV series, but not all of them. The novella stories were originally printed on a weekly basis in \"Shukuu Shōnen Magazine\" in 16-page increments that consisted of 15 story pages and one title page. Ten additional one-shot stories were presented in seasonal and holiday specials of \"Shuukuu Shōnen Magazine\". These stories were generally between 30-40 pages in length.\n\nIn the North American version of the series the resurrected detective/android is known as \"Tobor\" or the word \"robot\" spelled backwards. Tani is referred to as \"Professor Genius\" and the sobriquet of 8-Man is changed slightly to \"8th-Man\". The story content was clearly directed toward a wider audience of both young and adult viewers. Due to changes in cigarette advertising laws in the 1960s, television characters were not allowed to be seen smoking. As this was a major plot device in the series, the show was forced to be removed from broadcast in the United States.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1965, 8 Man was brought to the U.S. as 8th Man (sometimes called \"Tobor the 8th Man,\" as in its English-language theme music), with ABC Films as its syndicated distributor. Only 52 of the original 56 episodes were translated into English.\n\nThe characters were renamed as follows:\n\n8 Man was ranked ninth in Mania Entertainment's 10 Most Iconic Anime Heroes written by Thomas Zoth, who commented that, \"Before \"Cyborg 009\", \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", and \"Robocop\", there was 8 Man: The first cyborg manga and anime hero. Building on \"Astro Boy\", 8 Man helped to shape the trajectory of robot and cyborg heroes for the next decade.\"\n\nThe 8 Man franchise was revived in the early 1990s by a live-action film, video game and new animated series.\n\nIn 1991, SNK released a video game edition of \"Eight Man\" for the Neo-Geo arcade and home video game system (both versions are identical) where the player took the role of 8 Man and his robo-comrade 9 Man in a fight against an invading evil robot army. The game was released internationally. While the game stayed true to the concept of a crime-fighting super-robot, it was widely panned for being tedious and relying too much on the gimmick of its speed-running effect.\n\nIn 1992, a live-action film version of 8 Man was produced in Japan. Titled \"Eitoman - Subete no Sabishī Yoru no Tame ni\" (, lit. \"8 Man - For All the Lonely Night\"), it was directed by Yasuhiro Horiuchi and starred Kai Shishido as the title character and Toshihide Wakamatsu as Detective Yokota. Distributed in the United States by Fox Lorber video simply as \"8 Man\", the movie was widely panned for its choppy editing, mediocre direction and low-budget feel. Many modern American viewers, unfamiliar with the older animated series, felt the movie was an inferior version of \"RoboCop\", despite the fact that the latter was a much more recent franchise.\n\nIn mid-1993, the mantle of 8 Man was taken up by Hazama Itsuru in the OVA series \"8 Man After\". Existing in a world far more corrupt than that of his predecessor, the new 8 Man had no qualms about being extremely violent towards the cybernetic criminals who had murdered him previously. Licensed by Streamline Pictures where it went out of print until being released on DVD by Image Entertainment in 2001. It has since been released by Discotek Media in 2016 with Japanese audio and English subtitles for the first time. \n\nA manga comic strip called is being authored by Kyoichi Nanatsuki under Kodansha, which is being serialized under Kodansha's \"Magazine Z\".\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "1917979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917979", "title": "Northern Busway, Brisbane", "text": "Northern Busway, Brisbane\n\nThe Northern Busway is a bus-only road running north from the Brisbane central business district to the Royal Brisbane & Women's Hospital in Queensland, Australia. The first section of the busway opened on 23 February 2004 with one station at QUT Kelvin Grove. In December 2005, Normanby and Herston stations opened.\n\nThe Northern Busway extension opened in stages with the Herston to Windsor section opening in August 2009, and the Windsor to Kedron section opening in June 2012.\n\nThe first section of the Northern Busway, from the intersection of Roma Street to Herston, opened on 23 February 2004 with only one station, QUT Kelvin Grove. On 14 December 2005, two new stations, Normanby and Royal Children's Hospital Herston, were opened on the existing section.\n\nThe second section of the Northern Busway, also known as the Inner Northern Busway, officially opened on 19 May 2008. This section connects the first section of the Northern Busway to the South East Busway with stations at King George Square and Roma Street. To make room for the Inner Northern Busway, the lower floors of King George Square carpark were removed, and one rail platform at Roma Street railway station was removed.\n\nIn October 2007, an alliance of Abigroup and SMEC Holdings were selected to build the 1.2 kilometre Royal Children's Hospital to Windsor section with a new station at Royal Brisbane & Women's Hospital. This opened on 3 August 2009. On 18 June 2012, the Windsor to Kedron section opened.\n\nThe Northern Busway starts in a tunnel underneath Albert Street in the Brisbane central business district adjacent to the Queen Street bus station, previously the terminus of the South East Busway. Many northbound services using the Northern Busway originate at the Cultural Centre busway station on the South East Busway. It then proceeds north-west to the King George Square busway station, a large interchange with several stops on each of its two underground platforms. It then surfaces near Roma Street railway station and follows the alignment of the main city train lines. Roma Street busway station is adjacent to the train platforms and is on the same level. Platform 2 is shared by both trains and buses, although the only train to currently use Platform 2 is NSW TrainLink's daily XPT service to Sydney.\n\nThe busway then continues north alongside the Exhibition railway line and then north-east through the Victoria Park Golf Complex, with stations adjacent to the Normanby Fiveways, the Queensland University of Technology campus at Kelvin Grove and the Royal Children's Hospital. The busway then turns left and on to a bridge structure alongside the Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital precinct over Butterfield Street.\n\nThe three kilometre Windsor to Kedron section was built by a John Holland/Thiess consortium opening on 18 June 2012. The route rejoins Lutwyche Road after crossing Enoggera Creek. The route travels via bus lanes and local bus stops until it reaches Truro Street, where it enters into a dedicated 1.5 kilometre underground busway tunnel. After passing through Lutwyche and Kedron Brook busway stations and crossing Kedron Brook, the route rejoins Lutwyche Road at Stafford Road (southbound/inbound) and Sadlier Street (northbound/outbound).\n\nThe final stage of the busway is planned to be built from Kedron to Bracken Ridge. A series of draft alignments in order to identify the corridor for preservation have been released, however no final route has been selected.\n\nA past state government (the Newman Government) had indicated an intention to revisit the alignment for this project. Their primary points of departure from the policy of the previous government were a preference not to build the full busway option, nor to take the busway all the way to The Prince Charles Hospital. These changes were predicated on the perceived high expense of the previously published preferred options. The current government's stated preference now is for bus or transit lane level priority along the highly congested Gympie Road corridor.\n\nAll services on the busway are operated by Brisbane Transport.\n"}
{"id": "1917981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917981", "title": "Jealous One's Envy", "text": "Jealous One's Envy\n\nJealous One's Envy is the second studio album by American rapper Fat Joe, who had previously released his first album under the name Fat Joe da Gangsta. The album was released on October 24, 1995, by Relativity. The song \"Watch Out\" is known for having the first ever record appearance of fellow rapper Big Pun.\n"}
{"id": "1917985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917985", "title": "Joey Styles", "text": "Joey Styles\n\nJoseph Carmine Bonsignore (born July 14, 1971) better known by his ring name Joey Styles, is an American retired professional wrestling commentator. He is best known for his time with ECW and WWE. Before working for WWE, Styles was a full-time professional in the field of print advertising sales, started selling digital advertising with WWE and is now selling digital advertising full-time.\n\nBonsignore's family moved to Connecticut when he was in middle school, where he still resides. He is of Italian descent.\n\nBonsignore chose to go to Hofstra University because they had a strong communications program with their own television studio, and because the campus was close to Pro Wrestling Illustrated's offices, he hoped to get an internship there, which he eventually did, that internship got him backstage to a World Championship Wrestling show where he first met Paul Heyman, his future employer.\n\nWhile working for SportsChannel New York one summer, Bonsignore took a tape of his work there and showed it to Heyman, who liked it, which allegedly led to Heyman later hiring him.\n\nJoey Styles got his start in professional wrestling announcing while still attending Hofstra University by working for Tony Capone's North American Wrestling Alliance. He would often split time with former WWE announcer Craig DeGeorge or join DeGeorge for a two-man commentary team. Styles would also host a segment called \"NAWA Superstar Stats\" where he would talk about the wrestlers and their accomplishments. This NAWA aired on Sportschannel America for a brief time. NAWA September 1992\n\nStyles is best known for his work in Extreme Championship Wrestling during its entire run, from 1993 to its 2001 bankruptcy. He debuted at the Super Summer Sizzler Spectacular show in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on June 19, 1993. Styles was the sole host of \"ECW Hardcore TV\" and spent the early portion of the run as the promotion's only announcer. Providing both play-by-play and color commentary during television and pay-per-view broadcasts, Styles added his wrestling knowledge, enthusiasm, and comedic timing to the program. He briefly left ECW in 1994 only to return a few weeks later.\n\nAt Barely Legal, he became the first and only wrestling announcer in history to call a live pay-per-view event solo. Later on in the promotion, he was joined on commentary by Rick Rude on \"Hardcore TV\", Joel Gertner for \"ECW on TNN\", and later Cyrus for pay-per-views. Styles also worked full-time in ad sales for News America Marketing, a division of News Corp in New York City.\n\nAfter ECW, Styles briefly appeared in XPW but quit after one show, returning all cheques that he had been paid.\n\nAfter a brief sabbatical from the wrestling industry, Joey Styles would return to wrestling announcing for Court Bauer's Major League Wrestling as the \"voice of MLW.\" Joey's return to wrestling would be heralded as he was one of the first names to be announced by the company during its 2002 launch. Initially calling the action for MLW's home video releases, Styles's presence would grow upon MLW inking a major television pact with Sun Sports and several other international distributors. Hosting the weekly 11 pm series, \"MLW Underground,\" Styles returned his to his roots in the booth as a solo broadcaster, praised for his calling of memorable matches including a barbed wire match between Terry Funk and Steve Corino, amongst others. Styles continued in ad sales for direct marketing agencies in Connecticut and Atlanta.\n\nStyles signed a one night deal with World Wrestling Entertainment to call the first-ever ECW One Night Stand event, where he and Mick Foley did commentary for the show.\n\nOn November 1, 2005, he made an appearance at World Wrestling Entertainment's Taboo Tuesday. Styles was brought in to fill-in for Jonathan Coachman, as Coachman had a match against Batista. Joey joined WWE's \"Raw\" as a play-by-play announcer on November 7. On December 4, 2005, it was confirmed by WWE.com that Joey signed a five-year contract to be the official play-by-play commentator for \"Raw\". This would be the first time in Styles' career that he would work in wrestling full-time.\n\nIn an earlier interview done by WWE.com, he mentioned that becoming the voice of \"Raw\" would be a dream come true for him. Styles has also stated that calling WrestleMania to be one of his lifelong dreams growing up. However, despite being the lead announcer for \"Raw\", it was announced that he would not provide commentary for WrestleMania 22, which instead featured Jim Ross calling the matches for \"Raw\". Styles learned that he would not be announcing at WrestleMania 22 when he arrived on \"Raw\" on March 27, 2006. The reason for Styles not calling the event is that Vince McMahon disliked pure play-by-play announcing and wanted a \"storyteller\" instead.\n\nJim Ross had a similar problem when he first joined WWE, and Styles has credited Ross for teaching him the WWE style of commentary upon his return. However, Joey Styles was present at WrestleMania 22, losing his \"WrestleMania virginity\" as he put it, calling the hardcore Match between Mick Foley and Edge. This was Styles' idea, as he wanted to achieve his lifelong dream of calling a match at WrestleMania and pitched the idea to WWE by explaining that he had called more hardcore/ECW style matches than any other announcer in history.\n\nOn the May 1, 2006 edition of \"Raw\", Styles announced that he was quitting by delivering a worked shoot promo, in which he bashed Vince McMahon, WWE, sports entertainment, and the fact that people \"buy into this crap\". To further the storyline, his profile was removed from both the \"Raw\" superstars section and the ECW One Night Stand subsite. Styles remained under contract with WWE after he quit \"Raw\"; however, making his next appearance at WWE vs. ECW Head to Head. Here, he provided commentary with Tazz and announced that (now former ECW Representative) Paul Heyman had reinstated him as commentator of the new ECW brand of WWE. He provided commentary for ECW One Night Stand 2006 on June 11 and went on to announce ECW's weekly show on Sci-Fi. In April 2008, Styles began working on WWE.com, with Mike Adamle replacing him as ECW's play by play commentator. He has stated repeatedly that he has indeed retired from announcing full-time and was thrilled to continue to work for WWE as Director of Digital Media Content. Styles was soon after promoted to Vice President of Digital Media Content.\n\nAs Vice President of Digital Media Content, Styles worked on WWE.com and the WWE app, writing and editing as well as working closely with WWE's sales and sponsorship division. Additionally, Styles hosted a show called \"Oh My God! Moment of the Week\" that ran from September 2008 to December 2008. On the December 8, 2008 episode of \"Raw\", Styles presented the \"\"O M G!\" Moment of the Year\" award at the 2008 Slammy Awards with Alicia Fox, saying his famous \"\"Oh My God!\"\" catchphrase.\n\nIn 2010, Styles' announcing contract expired, but he remained with WWE as a non-contracted employee and continued to host \"History of ECW\" on WWE Classics On Demand TV service until it was discontinued in January 2014 because of the launch of WWE Network. Episodes of ECW \"Hardcore TV\" which aired in syndication from 1993-2000 and was hosted and announced by Styles are available on WWE Network along with all ECW pay-per-views. Due to music licensing issues, some of the commentary by Styles from ECW pay-per-views on the WWE Network has been re-recorded by Styles. Styles continued to host the \"ECW Unreleased\" WWE home video series. On November 11, 2014, Styles and Paul Heyman hosted WWE Network special \"ECW Exposed\".\n\nStyles appeared in WWE 2K16, announcing an ECW match between Steve Austin and Mikey Whipwreck in the Austin 3:16 showcase.\n\nOn August 8, 2016, it was reported that Styles was released from WWE and returned to advertising sales in New York City.\n\nIn addition to his duties on WWE.com, during the 2012 baseball season, Styles hosted a weekly webcast called \"Pinstripe Plays of the Week\" on YES Network.com, where he would give a recap of the best weekly plays from the New York Yankees.\n\nFrom September 2 to 4, 2016, Styles provided commentary for the Chikara promotion's 2016 King of Trios tournament.\n\nAfter his release from WWE, Styles went on record as saying he wants \"to be the Voice of the Indies\".\n\nOn November 12, Styles took part in Evolve's \"Evolve 72\" event. Before the main event of the show, Styles made a joke involving Donald Trump and announcer Joanna Rose, stating Trump \"would like to grab her by the...\" but never said the word. Evolve's booker Gabe Sapolsky immediately apologized for the comment, before announcing that Evolve had terminated Styles. Two days later, Beyond Wrestling and Chikara also announced they were severing ties with Styles. After that incident, Styles retired from pro wrestling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917990", "title": "Jan Hasištejnský z Lobkovic", "text": "Jan Hasištejnský z Lobkovic\n\nJan Hasištejnský z Lobkovic () (1450–1517) was a Bohemian diplomat of the House of Lobkowicz. He undertook diplomatic missions to Luxembourg (in 1477) and Rome (in 1487) in the time of Ladislaus II of Bohemia and Hungary. The king sent him to negotiate a marriage with Mary of Burgundy, which was ultimately unsuccessful. He made a journey to Palestine in 1493 and wrote a travel book about it, titled \"Pilgrimage to the Holy Grave in Jerusalem\" (first published in 1505). He also edited \"Advice and Precept to the Son Jaroslav, What to Do and What to Beware\". He founded the Franciscan monastery in Kadaň. He died on or around 28 January 1517 and is buried in the monastery. He was the elder brother of the so-called \"Czech Ulysses\" Bohuslav Hasištejnský z Lobkovic.\n"}
{"id": "1918000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918000", "title": "Joseph Gilbert Totten", "text": "Joseph Gilbert Totten\n\nJoseph Gilbert Totten (August 23, 1788 – April 22, 1864) fought in the War of 1812, served as Chief of Engineers and was regent of the Smithsonian Institution and cofounder of the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nJoseph G. Totten was born in New Haven, Connecticut, to Peter Gilbert Totten and Grace Mansfield. He was the tenth person to graduate from the United States Military Academy, being one of three graduating members of the class of 1805. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers on July 1, 1805.\n\nHe resigned in March 1806 to assist his uncle, Major Jared Mansfield, who was then serving as Surveyor General of the Northwest Territory.\n\nHe was a cousin of Joseph K. Mansfield, who rose to the rank of major general and died at the Battle of Antietam.\n\nTotten re-entered the Corps of Engineers in February 1808 and helped build Castle Williams and Castle Clinton in New York harbor.\n\nDuring the War of 1812, he was chief engineer of the Niagara frontier and Lake Champlain armies under General Stephen Van Rensselaer. At the Battle of Queenston Heights, he fought alongside Winfield Scott, who used Totten's cravat as a white flag to signal the American surrender. He was brevetted lieutenant colonel for gallant conduct in the Battle of Plattsburgh. As a member of the first permanent Board of Engineers, to which he was appointed in 1816, along with General Simon Bernard, he laid down durable principles of coast defense construction in a report to Congress in 1821.\n\nFrom 1825 until 1838, Totten oversaw the construction of Fort Adams in Newport, Rhode Island. Fort Adams was the second-largest construction project attempted by the army in the 19th century, after Fort Monroe in Virginia. Totten employed recent graduates of West Point as assistant engineers at Fort Adams, and taught them advanced engineering techniques. Totten's apprentices included John G. Barnard, George W. Cullum, Pierre G. T. Beauregard, and Alexander D. Bache, all of whom earned distinction during the Civil War. While at Fort Adams, Totten conducted experiments with various mortar compositions and published a paper of his findings: \"Brief Observations on Common Mortars, Hydraulic Mortars and Concretes\".\n\nIn 1833, Totten purchased the Francis Malbone House on Thames Street in Newport. At that time, it was the most opulent house in Newport. He lived there for the remainder of his time in Newport.\n\nTotten was appointed Chief Engineer of the United States Army in 1838, and served in that position until his death in 1864, the longest tenure of any chief engineer. As chief engineer, he was intimately involved with every aspect of the Army Corps of Engineers activities, from fortifications to harbor improvement. He was elected an Associate Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1841. Beginning in 1844, Totten was involved with the construction of Fort Montgomery on Lake Champlain in upstate New York.\n\nDuring this period, Totten invented an iron-reinforced embrasure for cannon. Known as \"Totten shutters,\" the hinged swinging doors were installed on the cannon openings of the fort between the mortar and brick facade. Balanced to swing freely, the iron shutters would be forced open by the gasses expelled from the cannon, and then rebound shut immediately afterwards, shielding the gunners from incoming fire. First installed in American forts in 1857, the design was incorporated in such locations as Fort Montgomery, Fort Delaware, Fort John C. Calhoun (Fort Wool), and Fort Jefferson, Florida. \n\nTotten was greatly admired by General Scott, for whom he directed the siege of Veracruz as his chief engineer during the Mexican–American War. He later served as a Civil War Union Army general, being brevetted as a U.S. Army brigadier general in 1847 and receiving his permanent appointment in 1863.\n\nOne of Totten's most significant achievements was the design and construction of the Minot's Ledge Light near Cohasset, Massachusetts. Previous efforts to build a lighthouse on the small ledge of rock had failed but Totten conceived a plan whereby the lighthouse would be pinned by its own weight to the ledge, making it able to withstand the harshest extremes of weather. It stands to this day flashing a distinctive 1–4–3 light pattern which has been interpreted to mean \"I LOVE YOU\".\n\nTotten served most of his time as chief engineer in the rank of colonel but was promoted to brigadier general on March 3, 1863.\n\nTotten was promoted to brevet major general on April 21, 1864, having served almost six decades in the army. He died the following day of pneumonia in Washington, D.C., and was buried in the Congressional Cemetery there.\n\nSeveral military and civil locations have been named after Totten.\n\nThe Civil War-era Fort Totten was built as part of the Defenses of Washington, D.C. A few earthworks remain in Fort Totten Park. The surrounding neighborhood, an apartment house development (Aventine Fort Totten), and a Washington DC Metro station bear his name.\n\nFort Totten (Queens) is a historic former U.S. Army fort maintained by New York City.\n\nFort Totten, North Dakota hosts Fort Totten State Historic Site, named for the General, which is on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nTottenville, Staten Island, was named for the family of an older relative, one of three \"Captain Tottens\" who supported the Loyalist cause during the American Revolution.\n\nRobert E. Lee surveyed Biscayne Bay in (Miami) in 1850 for the Army Corps of Engineers under then-Colonel Joseph Totten. Lee named Totten Key just south of Caesars Creek for him.\n\nTotten Street is located on Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri.\n\n\n\"This article contains public domain text from\" \n"}
{"id": "1918002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918002", "title": "Studentenstadt", "text": "Studentenstadt\n\nStudentenstadt Freimann is a student housing complex in Munich, Germany.\n\nThe complex was built in two stages, between 1961-1968 and between 1970-1977, and is Germany's largest student housing complex with 2,478 residential units in 14 buildings. Next to the Olympic Village, it is the second largest complex of the Studentenwerk München. In order to create affordable housing relatively quickly, several \"Wohncontainer\" (similar to mobile homes) have been set up near the original buildings. Today, more than 2,500 people live in \"StuSta\". The streets that run through Studentenstadt are named after the World War II era resistance group, the White Rose. For example, they are named Willi-Graf-Straße, Hans-Leipelt-Straße, and Christoph-Probst-Straße.\n\nStudentenstadt is located in northern Munich (Freimann) between the Autobahn A9 and the northern part of the Englischer Garten in the neighborhood of Schwabing. The nearest U-Bahn stop, Studentenstadt, is served by the U6. A number of bus lines also serve the station (50, 143, 177, 181, 231, and 233).\n\nThe concept was first developed by Egon Wiberg, the rector of Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität. It was founded by the Studentenwerk München. After the Bavarian Prime Minister, Hanns Siedel, set aside a parcel of land of about 8 hectares on the border of the English Garden for use, a series of hearings and meetings took place between the state of Bavaria and Studentenwerk München. At the beginning of the project, the Max Kade Foundation donated 1,000,000 German marks. There was then an architectural competition in 1960. The resulting winner was Ernst Maria Lang, with the architectural company Lang und Pogadl. After that, about 1,500 living spaces were planned in Studentenstadt, and this count was later raised to 2,500 in 1971. \n\nConstruction began in 1961, and Studentenstadt was built in four stages. In the first stage, between 1961 and 1963, Houses 1-6 were built. In the second, between 1966 and 1968, Houses 7 and 8 were built. In the third, between 1971 and 1973, Houses 9 and 10 were built. Finally, in the final stage, the last four houses were built between 1974 and 1975. A few of these houses are named, mostly after those who supported construction. In 1975, a children's nursery was opened, and the Hans-Scholl-Halle was built between 1976 and 1977. The U-Bahn stop at Studentenstadt was opened on October 19, 1971, just as 8 of the 14 houses were completed.\n\nThe Studentenstadt has two primary areas: \"Altstadt\" (old city), consisting of several 2 to 3 floor buildings plus two 9 floor towers, and \"Neustadt\" (new city), where students live in 7 - 20 floor towers.\n\n\"Altstadt\" consists of 627 single-room apartments with a size of 8 - 20 square meters each. Each one contains a sink. Kitchens, showers, and toilets are shared by all. There are also community lounges.\n\n\"Neustadt\" consists of 1,458 single-room apartments. All apartments have a kitchenette, shower, and toilet. There are also 54 married couples apartments with 35 - 77 square meters of living space. They have two rooms, a kitchen, and a bathroom.\n\nThere is a rugby union club in the Studentenstadt, the StuSta München.\n\nThere is a soccer club in the Studentenstadt, that also includes a women soccer team.\n\nThe Manhattan is a shared facility located in the tallest building in the Studentenstadt. During the summer it is located indoors on the 21st floor. When the weather permits, the Manhattan uses the west terrace on the 19th floor.\nIt is operated by a group of students who live in the StuSta and subject to the jurisdiction of the \"Heimrat\" (the city council of the StuSta).\n\nThe highpoint of cultural life at Studentenstadt is the Student Culture Festival, or \"StuStaCulum\", a festival held annually since 1989 in early summer by many theatre groups, bands, and artists. It attracts about 20'000 visitors every year.\n\nAdjacent to Studentenstadt is the Studentenstadt subway station, which provides access to the U6 line and some Metro bus routes. That station is one of few stations that are built above ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "1918003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918003", "title": "Peter Kenilorea", "text": "Peter Kenilorea\n\nSir Peter Kenilorea KBE (23 May 1943 – 24 February 2016) was a Solomon Islander politician, officially styled The Rt Hon. Sir Peter Kenilorea as a member of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom.\n\nKenilorea was born in Takataka village on Malaita island, of 'Are'are ethnicity. He was trained as a teacher for the South Seas Evangelical Church and a co-founder of the Solomon Islands Christian Association. As a young man he helped to found the Solomon Islands United Party.\n\nIn the 1973 general elections he ran in the 'Are'are constituency, losing to David Kausimae. By the time of the 1976 elections the constituency was split and Kenilorea was elected to Parliament in the East 'Are'are constituency. He became Chief Minister of the Solomon Islands in the same year and led the country to independence from Britain in 1978. He then served as the first Prime Minister of the Solomon Islands until 1981, and again from 1984 to 1986. He served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1988 to 1989 and from 1990 to 1993.\n\nFollowing fighting between the Malaita Eagle Force and the Isatabu Freedom Movement, Kenilorea was, along with Paul Tovua, co-chairman of the peace talks, and he became Chairman of the eight-member Peace Monitoring Council, which was created in August 2000. In the Seventh Parliament, which sat from 2001 to 2005, he was Speaker of Parliament.\n\nHe was a candidate for the post of Governor-General in mid-June 2004, but he received only 8 of 41 votes in Parliament, placing second behind Nathaniel Waena, who received 27 votes. Following the 2006 general election, he was re-elected as Speaker of Parliament without opposition in April 2006. He held the position until 2010.\n\nHe subsequently sought to return to Parliament, and was an unsuccessful candidate in a by-election in East 'Are'are in August 2012. He died on 24 February 2016 of natural causes. Kenilorea's son Peter Kenilorea Jr. was elected a member of parliament in April 2019.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1918006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918006", "title": "Eastern Busway", "text": "Eastern Busway\n\nThe Eastern Busway is a bus-only road running from the University of Queensland's St Lucia campus to Langlands Park busway station in Queensland, Australia.\n\nThe Eastern Busway was built and opened in stages. The first section between the University of Queensland and the South East Busway opened in August 2009and the Buranda to Main Avenue section in August 2011.\n\nConstruction began in April 2007 on the UQ Lakes to Buranda section with it opening on 3 August 2009. The UQ Lakes to Buranda section of the busway was built under an alliance with Thiess, Sinclair Knight Merz and the Department of Transport and Main Roads. It included a tunnel built under the old Boggo Road Gaol. Tunnelling was done with a Voest-Alpine Industrieanlagenbau AM105 roadheader machine. A second tunnel passes under the Pacific Motorway to connect with the South East Busway at Buranda.\n\nOn 1 December 2008, a worker was killed in an accident during construction of the section near the Princess Alexandra Hospital. The accident occurred when an 18 tonne concrete bridge beam fell from its pier supports.\n\nThe accident led to the suspension of construction for several days and charges being laid against construction contractor Theiss in relation to alleged breaches of the \"Workplace Health and Safety Act\". This death was the only recorded construction-related fatality on the busway network to date.\n\nIn June 2008, the Queensland Government approved the project's Concept Design and Impact Management Plan. The Concept Design and Impact Management Plan projects for a long-term investment in the future of the eastern suburbs.\n\nThe Government committed $466 million for the next section of the Eastern Busway. This funding included 96 property resumptions between Buranda and Cavendish Road, Coorparoo and construction of the section between the South East Busway and Main Avenue, Coorparoo with stations at Stones Corner and Langlands Park.\n\nIn December 2008, the Queensland Government announced the Eastern Busway Alliance of Leighton Contractors, Sinclair Knight Merz, Maunsell and AECOM to build this section.\n\nThe Buranda to Main Avenue section connects the existing South East Busway at Buranda with Coorparoo via Stones Corner. Busway stations have been built at Stones Corner and Langlands Park.\n\nConstruction work on the section commenced in August 2009. The section opened on 29 August 2011.\n\nFurther stages of the Eastern Busway are ready for immediate delivery, should funding become available under the Australian Government's Infrastructure Australia program.\nThe Queensland Government's Transport and Main Roads Department has stated that [quote] Planning for the ultimate Eastern Busway between Main Avenue, Coorparoo and Capalaba is currently being revised, with further stages subject to funding and government priorities. \"Busways - Department of Transport and Main Roads\"\n\nThe department is developing cost-effective short and medium term options on Old Cleveland Road, including intersection upgrades to allow for bus priority. It is proposed to extend the Eastern Busway along the Old Cleveland Road corridor via the suburbs of Coorparoo, Camp Hill, Carina, Carindale and Chandler to Capalaba. Historically, the Old Cleveland Road corridor was a major tram route until closure of Brisbane's tram network in 1969.\n\nBusway stations on the Eastern Busway currently include:\n\nMajor proposed stations on the busway include:\n\nRoad access to the busway is available at Dutton Park, Buranda (via the South East Busway and O'Keefe Street) and Langlands Park (via Old Cleveland Road and Main Avenue).\n\nBoggo Road busway station is located alongside the Park Road railway station. The busway platforms are listed as Platform 5 (toward Buranda) and 6 (toward UQ Lakes) to align with the existing platforms at Park Road station. This may cause confusion to busway users as on each other station in the Busway network, inbound (toward city) traffic is designated Platform 1 while outbound (away from city) traffic is designated Platform 2.\n\nAll services on the busway are operated by Brisbane Transport.\n"}
