{"id": "2004357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004357", "title": "Television in Canada", "text": "Television in Canada\n\nTelevision in Canada officially began with the sign-on of the nation's first television stations in Montreal and Toronto in 1952. As with most media in Canada, the television industry, and the television programming available in that country, are strongly influenced by media in the United States, perhaps to an extent not seen in any other major industrialized nation. As a result, the government institutes quotas for \"Canadian content\". Nonetheless, new content is often aimed at a broader North American audience, although the similarities may be less pronounced in the predominantly French-language province of Quebec.\n\nThe first experimental television broadcast began in 1932 in Montreal, Quebec, under the call sign of VE9EC. The broadcasts of VE9EC were broadcast in 60 to 150 lines of resolution at 41 MHz. This service closed around 1935, and the outbreak of World War II put a halt to television experiments. Television in Canada on major networks pre-date any telecasts that originated in the country since thousands of television sets that were capable of receiving U.S.-based signals were installed in homes near the Canada–US border between 1946 and 1953. Homes in southern and southwestern Ontario and portions of British Columbia, including the Toronto, Hamilton, London, Windsor, Victoria and Vancouver areas, were able to receive television stations from Buffalo, Cleveland, Detroit or Seattle with the help of elevated outdoor antennas and amplifiers. U.S. television programs and the networks that originated them thus became popular in those Canadian cities within range of their signals, and those cities represented a sizable proportion of the total Canadian population. This helped spur development of a specifically Canadian television programming and transmission system during the late 1940s and early 1950s, but at the same time caused it to develop within American technical standards that had been previously mandated by the Federal Communications Commission between 1941 and 1946.\nSince the first Canadian stations (CBFT in Montreal and CBLT in Toronto) signed on in September 1952, television developed differently in Canada than in the United States because it was introduced and developed in a different context. The distinct social, political, and economic situation of Canada shaped the historic development of mass communication and television in the country. Three factors have made the historical development of television in Canada a unique one: The threat of American influence, the language divide, and the government's response to both of these.\n\nAmerican influence and the fear of that influence greatly affected television's development in Canada. The first decades of the 20th century saw a change towards industrialization, and during that time both the materials and products manufactured as well as the investors and consumers were American. The Canadian dependency on American capital and markets persisted through the Great Depression and its aftermath. This situation remained during the emergence of television and affected its development in Canada. Even with the emergence of radio, Canada was already trying to keep foreign ownership and programming at a minimum to avoid the American imperialism that would be caused by such dependency on the United States, which in fact was already incipient.\n\nThe issue of economy of scale played a large role. \"Americans [were] pushing smaller cultural communication aside with their dominating programming, not because they [were] based on a policy but because they ha[d] the money – the poorer the country, the more American productions.\" English Canadian broadcasting illustrated how this was problematic for some Anglophone Canadians as well as the Canadian government. A major question was how any sense of \"Canadianism\" could come out of such an attractive (and rich) American world. There was a fear of communicating ideas and opinions that were not Canadian, to Canadians - especially the youth. With the exception of radio, television presented an opportunity, for the first time, to reach a very wide audience at the same time. By 1954, a million television sets had been sold in Canada. Even though those sets were very expensive at the time, the large majority (9 of 10) of Canadian households owned a television set by the end of the 1950s.\n\nPeople became excited and obsessed with the novelty. Television performer and producer Lorne Michaels said, about the advent of television, \"it was all we talked about at school. We literally raced home to watch TV\". It became important to Canada that Canadian values would be projected onto this large audience and then onto the entire nation. Although many watched the available American television programs, some feared that Canada would end up stuck in a rut of American popular culture during a time when Canadian national identity was very vague. Canada was not only made up of Francophones and Anglophones, there were also immigrants from around the world, at that time mostly from Europe. That fear of American influence convinced the Canadian government that its involvement was necessary in order for Canadian broadcasting to express and encourage Canadian identity and national unity.\n\nThough French Canadians feared expansion of American influence and the difficulties that might arise in protecting the French language, their concern was not the same as that of English Canadians who did not have the option of purchasing U.S. programming and profitably filled their schedules with cheaper, attractive foreign programming, mostly because they were not attractive to the French audience. In this situation, society affected the division in the Canadian broadcasting industry as much as the division affected society. The intensity of fears of \"continentalism\" was as strong as its opposing force of attractiveness of American television programs to Canadian viewers. Most Anglophone viewers could relate easily to the American programs as much as they did to their Canadian programs, since people looked the same and spoke in the same language as they did. For example, in 1957, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation presented American programs such as \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". However, the ten most popular programs on French television were made in Quebec, including \"La Famille Plouffe\". Gradually, French Canadians showed a strong preference for Quebec-produced television programs, which was significant considering the fierce American competition that English Canada dealt with (and still deals with to this day). French television was distinct from English television in that \"one of its most distinctive aspects was the bringing together of international and local influences, American and European television styles and programming ideas and merging them with the cultural idioms of rapidly modernizing and assertive Quebec.\" The merging of local and foreign ideas and techniques was a novelty in North American television. Since English and French language television in Canada had developed separately, French-language broadcasting developed a distinct popular culture.\n\nWith the fear of the United States stunting the growth of Canada as well as the country becoming increasingly divided by language, the government showed huge concern with how television affected Canadians. Graham Spry, founder and spokesperson of the Canadian Radio League, stated about the radio system: \"The question is the State or the United States.\" According to the Canadian government, the survival of Canadian television depended on public funding for Canadian programs, which would be produced, broadcast and controlled by a public corporation. The Broadcasting Act of 1932 began of government involvement. Its main aim was the \"Canadianization of mass media\". In other words, it wanted to create a Canadian broadcasting system to replace the American system that had infiltrated itself into Canada, as well as to unite Canadians in creating a national identity. The Broadcasting Act of 1932 created a national network for each electronic medium in Canada's two official languages, French and English. When it was created, the Act referred mostly to radio broadcasting but it also included television once TV came to the country in 1952.\n\nThe Act resulted in the creation of the CRBC, which would be replaced by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) in a later revision. The government-created corporation held the responsibility of establishing a national service and to monitor the entire broadcast system. Because of Canada's large land area, it would be difficult for one corporation to control the broadcasting system throughout the country, all while establishing a network to compete in that system as well as in the American system. Before 1958, Canadian law prohibited the creation of private television networks. Private stations did emerge but could not exist independently, and were obliged to become affiliated with the French national network or the English national network. The Act of 1958 as well as its revised version in 1968 allowed for the existence of privatized networks. The private stations were then recognized as direct competitors to the CBC, which maintained its role as national broadcaster but lost its regulatory power.\n\nThe 1968 Broadcasting Act created the Canadian Radio-Television Commission (now the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission). The government still referred to the Canadian broadcasting system as the \"single system\". Among other concerns, this implied that both private and public networks were working toward the same goals, notably the national objective of unity and Canadian content and ownership. Government intervention helped the Canadian broadcasting industry economically but failed to create a distinct culture that was in sharp contrast to American popular culture. However, it did allow Quebec to run its own broadcasting service and economically, it helped out the Canadian broadcasters, particularly the Canadian Association of Broadcasters (CAB). Due to their protests, Bill C-58 was passed. Among many changes, Bill C-58 removed tax deductibility benefits for Canadian Corporations advertising on American stations. The 1968 Act had also given priority carriage for Canadian broadcast services.\n\nPolicies such as these produced important economic benefits for Canadian broadcasters. Economic prosperity for Canadian broadcasters took priority over Canadian identity in that prosperity was not compromised for identity. This can be inferred through the vagueness and ineffective policies passed in the aim of protecting Canadian culture. For example, Canadian content regulations were introduced in 1959 and revised again in 1978. \"Canadian content\" is broadly defined as programs of \"general interest to Canadians\". Since Canadians easily identify with Americans and their popular culture as well as the two countries being tied very closely on an economic standpoint, almost anything produced in the U.S. could be considered to be of general interest to Canadians. Changes to this were attempted in the late 1980s. Government intervention throughout the development of television in Canada affected the way it was developed domestically as it did not developed through laws and policies rather than a free market.\n\nWhile American television stations, including affiliates of ABC, NBC and CBS, near the Canada–US border were available for several years prior, and gained a sizable audience in cities like Toronto, within range of U.S. signals, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) was the first entity to broadcast television programming within Canada, launching in September 1952 in both Montreal and Toronto. Private CBC affiliates began operating late in 1953 to supplement the Corporation's own stations; the first private CBC affiliate in Canada was CKSO-TV in Sudbury, Ontario in October of that year, with CFPL-TV in London, Ontario following a few weeks later. All television stations that signed on in Canada were required to be CBC affiliates, as the CBC was the only television network operating in Canada at the time.\n\nIn 1948, there were 325 television sets in Canada, but thousands more were sold in the years from 1948 to 1952, most of them tuned to stations from either the Buffalo, Seattle, Cleveland or Detroit television markets. When Canadian television began, the Radio-Television Manufacturers Association of Canada estimated that 85,000 sets were expected to be sold in 1952. 95% of these were concentrated in Ontario, with 57.4% in the Golden Horseshoe region (40.2% in Toronto and Hamilton, 17.2% in Niagara Peninsula) and 34.6% in the Windsor region near Detroit. Television viewership outside Ontario was limited to British Columbia's Lower Mainland with access to American programming from Seattle and some sets in Montreal. Television sales were promoted not only by the arrival of CBC Television, but by revised credit practices at that time, which allowed purchases without requiring an initial cash deposit.\n\nFollowing a review by the Diefenbaker government in the late 1950s, a number of new, \"second\" stations were licensed in many major markets, many of which began operating before the end of 1960. CTV, the first private network, which grew out of the inevitable association of these new stations, began operating in October 1961. About the same time, CHCH-TV in Hamilton disaffiliated from the CBC and became the first station not affiliated with either network, not counting the initial launch period of most of the soon-to-be CTV stations.\n\nOver the next 25 years or so, many more new stations were launched, primarily CBC stations in major markets replacing private affiliates (which subsequently joined with CTV or became independent) and new independent stations in the largest centres, such as CITY-TV in Toronto, CITV-TV in Edmonton, and CKND-TV in Winnipeg. During this time cable television also began to take hold, securing the fortunes of individuals such as Ted Rogers, who secured the licences for much of Toronto.\n\nIn 1966, CHCH in Hamilton formed the nucleus of the first serious attempt to form Canada's third terrestrial television network. The original plan was withdrawn for regulatory and financial reasons by 1969, but a scaled-down version resulted in the 1974 launch of CKGN-TV in Toronto, whose branding as Global Television Network would eventually extend nationwide. Through the 1970s and 1980s, nearly every major Canadian market saw the launch of independent third stations, most of which were either launched by or eventually acquired by Izzy Asper's Canwest, and which served as a de facto third network although they were not yet branded or formally structured as such; these stations, by and large, were eventually unified as the Global Television Network.\n\nThe 1980s and 1990s saw exponential growth in the multichannel universe, beginning with pay television services and later continuing with various waves of specialty services, usually launched in one fell swoop. The launch of direct-to-home satellite television services in the mid-1990s accelerated this growth.\n\nThe early- to mid-1990s in particular also saw further growth and consolidation of broadcast television. Baton Broadcasting, owner of Toronto CTV affiliate CFTO-TV and already seen as the network's dominant player, bought or replaced most of the network's other affiliates and ultimately acquired the network itself. In 1997, Asper's regional networks became united under the Global Television Network brand previously used only by his Ontario station.\n\nAdditional groups also sprouted up in the form of Western International Communications, CHUM Limited and Craig Media. In 2000, CanWest bought WIC, which had itself grown from the CTV affiliate-owner in British Columbia to include many of the stations of Allarcom and Maclean Hunter, in order to satisfy its long-held desire to enter Alberta, but also giving it a second network. CHUM secured two regional services in Ontario before expanding to British Columbia and merging with Craig, its equivalent in the Canadian Prairies.\n\nThe early 2000s, aside from the completion of the consolidation described above, brought an apparent convergence craze among the major media conglomerates. CanWest bought the Southam newspaper chain, including the leading broadsheet papers in several major cities, raising new concerns on media concentration. Telecom giant BCE, believing it needed control over content to fuel its new media strategy, formed Bell Globemedia, essentially CTV and its specialty services put together with a single, if influential, newspaper, \"The Globe and Mail\". Canwest continues to pursue its strategy; in late 2005, BCE announced it would sell most of its interests in Globemedia to a consortium of investors including the Thomson family and Torstar, although it still retains a minority stake in the company.\n\nIn many respects, particularly since the consolidation phase of the late 1990s and early 2000s the television industry in Canada now more closely resembles the British or Australian models, in which the vast majority of stations are directly owned by their networks and offer only slight variance in local scheduling apart from local or regional newscasts, rather than the American network affiliate model that formerly predominated. In some cases, in fact, a single station serves an entire province (or even multiple provinces, in the case of the Maritimes) through a network of rebroadcasters rather than through multiple licensed stations. Some privately owned network affiliates do still exist, although these are now relatively rare and exist only in smaller television markets.\n\nBell Globemedia (soon after renamed CTVglobemedia and then Bell Media) announced plans to acquire CHUM Limited, in a deal that would place Canada's four largest private English-language broadcast services under just two owners (in CTVgm's case, CTV and Citytv). The enlarged CTVgm would also own interests in nearly 40 specialty channels and pay services. As part of the proposal, CTVgm would sell several of CHUM's less valuable properties, such as the smaller A-Channel system, to Rogers Communications, Canada's largest cable provider and already a major media company in its own right. On June 8, 2007, however, the CRTC approved the CHUM merger, conditional on CTV divesting itself of Citytv rather than A-Channel.\n\nThis sparked another round of media consolidation. In early 2007, Canwest, in partnership with Goldman Sachs, announced an agreement to buy Alliance Atlantis, another major specialty channel operator, and more deals are expected in the near future. Other major specialty operators include Corus Entertainment (owned by the Shaw family) and Channel Zero.\n\nConsolidation has also continued between cable companies, and between specialty channel operators. There are now few of the small family-owned television groups that dominated the formative era of Canadian television, the most notable perhaps being the Stirling family, which owns NTV in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador. The twinstick model of broadcasting, in which a single locally owned company operated both CTV and CBC affiliates in a community, is also now rare – within English Canada, only the cities of Thunder Bay and Lloydminster still receive television service from a twinstick operation, and of those two, only Thunder Bay's Thunder Bay Television is still locally owned.\n\nIn 2012, Bell Media attempted to acquire Astral Media in a takeover. This initial attempt was rejected by the CRTC as this would have resulted in Bell increasing its share of the Canadian broadcasting market to 42%. Bell filed a new application for the proposed takeover with the CRTC on March 6, 2013, two days after the Competition Bureau approved the acquisition; the Commission approved the merger on June 27, 2013, with Bell volunteering to sell certain cable television properties including Family Channel, Disney XD, MusiMax, MusiquePlus and Historia as well as Astral's interest in Teletoon, in an attempt to relieve concerns surrounding Bell's total market share in English-language television following the merger (most of the properties were sold to Corus Entertainment – which already owned Teletoon and its related children's specialty channels – although Remstar acquired MusiMax and MusiquePlus and DHX Media acquired Family Channel and its sister channels).\n\nAs outlined below, Canadian regulations ensure that the majority of programming aired by Canadian stations are of domestic origin. However, thanks to domestic newscasts and daytime programming, a very large percentage of the airtime in peak viewing hours (in most areas, 7:00 to 11:00 p.m.) can be devoted to programs of foreign origin, in large part due to the significant amount of programming available from the U.S., not to mention the availability of the major U.S. broadcast networks themselves via cable or satellite, or even as terrestrial signals in border markets.\n\nA Canadian network is allowed to override the cable or satellite feed of an American broadcast signal when they air the same program simultaneously, ensuring that the Canadian broadcaster, not the American broadcaster, is able to benefit from the advertising revenue associated with broadcasting to the Canadian audience. Arguably this right has led to an even greater glut of American programming on Canadian stations, including programs of little relevance to Canadian audiences, or poorly received series that may never be seen outside North America. In addition, higher rated American shows cannot be seen if the Canadian network overriding the signal interrupts the program for a news bulletin, unless the cable company switches the signal back to the American station's feed.\n\nMany Canadian broadcasters broadcast on a 24-hour schedule. Daily programming begins at about 6:00 a.m., usually with a local or national morning show. Daytime programming, including talk shows and soap operas, follows, although some Canadian stations may air \"brokered-time\" religious or charitable programming as well, which unlike traditional infomercials can count towards Canadian content requirements.\n\nMost Canadian television stations are required to carry some news programming as per their license. As opposed to the U.S. model, most stations, even in major markets like Toronto, carry a single newscast during the late-afternoon/early-evening period, specifically from 6:00 to 7:00 p.m. However, as in the U.S., \"strip\" programming fills the following hour, at least in the Eastern and Pacific time zones, and is followed by prime time programming. One or more newscasts follow, usually beginning at 11:00 p.m.; the main exception is \"\", which airs at 10:00 p.m. on CBC. However, there is a growing trend of some television stations adopting a newscast schedule similar to the American television model, with locally produced newscasts in the mornings (usually lasting about 3 to 3½ hours and airing only on weekdays, though a few stations do carry weekend morning newscasts) and during the lunch hour, in addition to early and late-evening newscasts; most owned-and-operated stations of Global nationwide and most CTV O&Os located west of the Ontario/Manitoba border have adopted this scheduling format for their local news programming. In contrast, some stations carry a locally produced morning news programs even if they do not carry evening newscasts at all (such as City's owned-and-operated stations, all of which produce a weekday morning news/talk program using the title \"Breakfast Television\"; the television system's Toronto flagship CITY-DT is the only Citytv O&O, as well as one of only three stations affiliated with the network, to carry nightly locally produced evening newscasts).\n\nTo maximize simultaneous substitution opportunities, in the Eastern and Pacific Time Zones, prime time programming airs from 8:00 to 11:00 p.m., while in the Central Time Zone it generally airs from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m., in both cases mirroring the U.S. networks. However, viewers in the Mountain Time Zone – i.e. Alberta – have historically received U.S. network feeds from the Pacific Time Zone, not from the Mountain Time Zone. Similarly, those in Atlantic Canada receive U.S. feeds from the Eastern Time Zone. Local stations in those regions also use 8:00 to 11:00 p.m. (8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in Newfoundland and Southeast Labrador)) as prime time, but with most programming advanced by an hour (thus programming seen from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m. in the Eastern and Pacific Time Zones is typically seen from 9:00 to 11:00 p.m. in the Atlantic and Mountain Time Zones (9:30 to 11:30 p.m. Newfoundland Time)), and 10:00 p.m. programming aired earlier in the evening at 8:00 p.m. (8:30 p.m. Newfoundland Time). Also, in the rare event a program scheduled to start before 10:00 p.m. in the Eastern and/or Pacific Time Zones runs into the 10:00 p.m. hour, Atlantic and Mountain Time Zone stations will typically delay their 11:00 p.m. news programming to 12:00 a.m. and air the entire program in unison with the time zone directly west (thus, a program scheduled to air from 9:00 to 11:00 p.m. in Eastern and Pacific Time Zones is typically aired from 10:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. in the Atlantic and Mountain Time Zones (10:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Newfoundland Time), with syndicated programming airing in the 8:00 p.m. hour).\n\nCBC Television airs all programming corresponding to the local time zone, except for a 30-minute delay in the Newfoundland Time Zone.\n\nOvernight programming varies from broadcaster to broadcaster, and may consist of purchased programming or infomercials, or repeat airings of daytime programming.\n\nWhile under Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission regulations at least 60% of program has to be Canadian-produced, and 50% during prime time, English-language private broadcasters such as CTV and Global have always had difficulty airing more than a bare minimum of Canadian-produced programming in primetime; in actual practice, network and local news accounts for a large proportion of the Canadian content on most stations, with each of the commercial networks rarely having more than one or two Canadian-produced drama or comedy series on their schedules at any given time. Among the English language broadcasters, only the public CBC Television airs a schedule that consists almost entirely of Canadian-produced programming, although even it will sometimes air selected programming from Britain, Australia or PBS (American Public Television) in the United States.\n\nScripted television programming in Canada tends toward the shorter runs more typical of British television rather than the longer seasons that predominate in the United States. A typical Canadian drama or comedy series will produce between six and thirteen episodes in its first season, although an exceptionally popular series such as \"Corner Gas\" may produce up to 20 episodes in later seasons. A slight deviation from this model is with the long-running teen drama \"Degrassi\" (an incarnation of the popular \"Degrassi High\" series franchise), which due to a switch to a more serialized format in 2011, began producing up to 40 episodes per season. Less expensive forms of programming, such as news and sketch comedy programs, will usually produce many more episodes each year, coming closer to the American model.\n\nThe French-language commercial networks air significantly more Canadian content than their English counterparts.\n\nWhile the majority of services operate in English, there are a growing number of similar services in the French language, serving primarily Quebec. Ici Radio-Canada Télé, the French-language equivalent of CBC Television, broadcasts terrestrially across Canada, while TVA, one of Quebec's two commercial French-language networks, is available across Canada on cable.\n\nRDI, the French equivalent of CBC News Network, also has cross-Canada cable carriage rights, as does TV5 Québec Canada. Most other French-language networks are available only in Quebec, although some have \"optional\" cable carriage status in the rest of Canada. V, for instance, is carried on cable in New Brunswick and parts of Ontario and is available nationally by satellite.\n\nThe Ontario government's French public television network TFO is the only French-language broadcaster in Canada whose operations are located \"entirely\" outside of Quebec.\n\nOther ethnic and multicultural services, serving one or more cultural groups outside of these two official languages, are also growing in strength. Six terrestrial TV stations, CFMT and CJMT in Toronto, CFHG in Montreal, CJEO in Edmonton, CJCO in Calgary and CHNM in Vancouver, air multicultural programming in a variety of languages, while Telelatino airs programming in Italian and Spanish on basic cable. Numerous third-language channels have been licensed as Category 2 services on digital cable.\n\nThe Aboriginal Peoples Television Network (APTN) airs programming targeted to the Indigenous peoples of Canada; 28 per cent of the network's content is broadcast in aboriginal languages.\n\nThe Canadian broadcasting industry, including all programming services (over-the-air or otherwise) and all distributors, is regulated in regards to ownership and content by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), which in most cases issues licences for each such operation. The CRTC issues licences pursuant to Canadian laws and the Commission's own regulations and conditions of licence, which regulate such matters as Canadian content, domestic ownership and accessibility issues such as closed captioning.\n\nAmong other regulations, all Canadian broadcasters and distributors must be at least 80% owned and controlled by Canadian citizens; also, all conventional stations, and most established specialty services, are required to air a majority of Canadian content, both throughout its schedule and in its primetime schedule.\n\nIndustry Canada regulates the technical aspects of broadcast stations and certain aspects of other licensed undertakings.\n\nUnlike specialty services, conventional (or \"over-the-air\") broadcast stations are permitted to air a wide variety of news, information, entertainment, sports and other programming without any restriction as to theme or content, and none restrict themselves in that regard. Religious television stations are an exception to the previous statement but must provide a variety of programs reflecting different points of view. CRTC regulations have so far prevented a large number of the infomercial- or religious-based stations now frequently found in major centres in the U.S. from operating in Canada; infomercials, even those made in Canada, are not considered Canadian content.\n\nNearly all broadcast stations have now been aligned, in one form or another, into national groups based on ownership and/or content. Many of these groups are designated as \"networks\", in the colloquial sense, below, although in the regulatory sense they may or may not be licensed networks. However, they are often treated very differently from U.S. networks. For instance, most networks provide a full slate of programming, often, but not always, buying the national rights to \"syndicated\" programs that air across affiliates of multiple American networks. In Canada, hence \"Dr. Phil\" and \"The Ellen Degeneres Show\" only air on CTV stations, and \"Entertainment Tonight\" only on Global stations. However, for historical reasons, \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" (until it ended its run in 2011) aired on a mixture of stations, albeit one dominated by CTV.\n\nAlso, it is not uncommon to find multiple affiliates of one network, and no affiliates of another network, available in the same market on basic cable, particularly in smaller markets. For instance, in Kingston, Ontario, two CBC affiliates are available, a local privately owned station and a CBC-owned station from Ottawa, while CTV Two is not available in that market. In many markets, including some major cities, there is only a handful of local stations, with other network services provided by an affiliate based hundreds of kilometres away. For instance, in Ottawa, only three English networks/systems – CBC, CTV and CTV Two – have stations based in the market; the \"local\" Global and Citytv stations are in fact rebroadcasters of Toronto-area stations. Such a scenario would be virtually unheard of in a major American market.\n\nDespite a general CRTC policy that limits station ownership to one station per market per language per company, several exceptions have led to twinstick operations in several markets. In some cases, this allows multiple stations to serve a small market that could otherwise support only one station.\n\nIn larger markets, however, Canwest and CHUM had justified several instances of twinsticks, generally two stations based in separate but neighbouring regions. This was allowed on the basis that, in another owner's hands, stations like CHCH in Hamilton, Ontario and CHEK in Victoria, British Columbia (both Canwest stations that were sold off in 2009, CHCH to Channel Zero and CHEK to a consortium of the station's employees) would inevitably turn their focus to the larger Toronto and Vancouver markets respectively, leaving their cities of licence with little or no local news coverage. This led to the development of the respective E! and A (now CTV Two) systems. Nonetheless, the local news coverage these stations provide do not prevent them from airing programs with mass appeal during the rest of their schedules, frequently promoted on their sister stations.\n\nAll stations have call signs beginning in \"CB\", \"CF\", \"CH\", \"CI\", \"CJ\" or \"CK\", but few now use them. While Industry Canada nominally maintains a requirement for stations to identify themselves every hour on the hour, in practice this is rarely enforced. Meanwhile, the major networks have striven to minimize the costs associated with multiple brand names. Some newer call signs are rarely known outside the industry (such as CKXT or \"Sun TV\"), while the major networks have largely removed all traces of formerly well-known call signs on local stations or their websites. A notable if partial exception is CITY-DT in Toronto, which, along with several sister stations, use the \"Citytv\" (originally City) brand name.\n\nThe publicly funded CBC operates two broadcast networks, CBC Television and Ici Radio-Canada Télé, respectively operating in English and French. Both are devoted primarily to domestic content, albeit with different programming: the French-language service, which does not have significant foreign competition, has been considered a major success in recent years, while many have found much to be desired on its English counterpart over the same time. The English network in particular has suffered immensely due to various cuts to, and restructurings of, the CBC's budget, beginning in the late 1980s, as well as greater competition with private broadcasters, both domestic and foreign, in English Canada. Both networks are available over-the-air in most of the country.\n\nThe first tier of national private networks include CTV, Global, Citytv and TVA. CTV, Citytv and Global are English networks, which generally split the most popular foreign programs between them, with significant local news programming in most areas but limited amounts of domestic content in primetime. Both CTV and Global are available over-the-air in most regions; Citytv is available in virtually all of Canada's major media markets, but has only partial coverage in other areas. Much like CTV and Global, Citytv originally focused on movies and niche-appeal programs in primetime, although it has gradually added more series of broader appeal, despite lacking a presence in Atlantic Canada. TVA, a French-language network available throughout Quebec over-the-air and elsewhere via cable and satellite, airs mostly programming made in Quebec, to great success in that province; see also Quebec television. CTV, Global, Citytv and TVA are respectively owned by Bell Canada through its Bell Media division, Corus Entertainment, Rogers Communications through its Rogers Media division and Quebecor Media.\n\nThe remaining networks or systems have a more limited reach or audience appeal. As the CRTC is much more conservative in licensing individual stations than the FCC, they do not reach all markets; in fact CTV Two consists almost entirely of former CBC affiliates that disaffiliated from CBC Television and quickly turned their focus towards larger nearby markets.\n\nThese networks include:\n\nMany smaller markets have stations that receive programming from more than one network. Most notably, CJON-DT (or \"NTV\") in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador airs CTV's newscasts along with its own locally produced \"NTV Evening Newshour\", but relies mainly on Global for entertainment programs.\n\nSome markets have at least one provincial educational service available, namely TVOntario and TFO (Ontario), Télé-Québec and Canal SAVOIR (Quebec), Citytv Saskatchewan (Saskatchewan), Knowledge (British Columbia), and CTV Two Alberta (Alberta). Of these, all except CTV Two Alberta and Citytv Saskatchewan are owned by governmental or nonprofit agencies; CTV Two Alberta is owned by Bell Media and Citytv Saskatchewan by Rogers Communications, and both serve as educational broadcasters during the day while offering the programming of one of Canada's commercial television networks or systems in prime time.\n\nOther major stations include CFHG-DT, a multicultural independent station in Montreal airing programs in various foreign languages; CJIL-TV (or \"The Miracle Channel,\" in southern Alberta); and locally owned independent station CHEK-DT in Victoria, British Columbia.\n\nA number of American stations, such as independent station KVOS-TV in Bellingham, Washington, and the Fox affiliates in Buffalo, New York (WUTV) and Burlington, Vermont (WFFF), have also aggressively courted Canadian advertisers and are perceived by many viewers and advertisers as effectively Canadian stations.\n\nCable and satellite television services are available throughout Canada, delivering local and often regional stations, the major U.S. networks, and additional programming via specialty and other non-broadcast channels. The largest cable providers are Rogers Cable, Shaw Cable, Vidéotron, Telus and Cogeco, while the two licensed satellite providers are Bell TV and Shaw Direct.\n\nSpecialty channels, unlike cable networks in the U.S., must be licensed by the CRTC. They must be focused on a specific genre and cannot include general-interest services of akin to American services TNT or USA Network; as a result programs from these U.S. channels often end up on conventional stations, not cable. Specialty channels include such categories as sports (such as TSN), news (such as CBC News Network and CTV News Channel), music (such as MuchMusic), arts (such as CTV Drama Channel), cartoons (such as Treehouse TV and YTV) and drama (such as Showcase). Anglophone premium television services include The Movie Network (which serves areas east of the Ontario–Manitoba border), Movie Central (which serves areas west of that border), Super Channel (which is available nationally), and Super Écran (which serves French-speaking Canadiens).\n\nSome U.S. channels are also available, although these are also subject to CRTC approval. Aside from the four main broadcast networks, they are generally prohibited if a similar Canadian channel has already launched at the time of the request for Canadian carriage. American cable networks have occasionally been removed outright if an equivalent Canadian channel is licensed, as in the case of CMT.\n\nInternet television in Canada includes streaming services from both local and international companies. Along with international services such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+ and others, majors local providers includes Crave, CBC Gem, ICI Tou.TV and Club illico.\n\nIn Canada, over-the-air television signals are primarily broadcast using the NTSC (analogue) and ATSC (digital) formats. The CRTC set August 31, 2011, as the deadline for full-power over-the-air television transmitters broadcasting in 28 mandatory markets to move to digital transmission; as a result, the ATSC digital standard has become the primary means of transmitting over-the-air broadcast signals in Canada.\n\nCanada has not announced any further over-the-air digital conversion deadlines. Permits for new analogue television transmitters are no longer being granted.\n\nIn April 2017, it was announced by Industry Canada that all remaining analogue over-the-air television signals across Canada are scheduled to be shut down no later than 2022.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004361", "title": "Negidals", "text": "Negidals\n\nNegidals (; Negidal: \"элькан бэйэнин\", \"elkan bayenin\", \"local people\") are a people in the Khabarovsk Krai in Russia, who live along the Amgun River and Amur River. \n\nThe ethnonym \"Negidal\" is a Russification of the Ewenki term \"ngegida\", which means \"coastal people\". \n\nThe Negidal language belongs to the Tungusic language family and is closely related to the Evenk language. \n\nThe Negidals are Evenks by origin, who settled along the Amgun and interbred with the Nivkhs, Nanais and Ulchs. \n\nThey are officially considered Orthodox Christians but preserved their own animistic beliefs and shamanism. \n\nAccording to the 2002 census, there were 567 Negidals in Russia, 147 of which still spoke the Negidal language. According to the 2010 census, there were 513 Negidals in Russia, 75 of which still spoke the Negidal language. \n\n52 Negidals live in Ukraine. Of these, 31 declared Negidal as their native language, 11 are Russian-speaking and for 9 the mother tongue is another language. \n"}
{"id": "2004366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004366", "title": "Selkup people", "text": "Selkup people\n\nThe Selkup (), until the 1930s called Ostyak-Samoyeds (остя́ко-самое́ды), are a Samoyedic ethnic group native to Northern Siberia. They live in the northern parts of Tomsk Oblast, Krasnoyarsk Krai, Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug, and Nenets Autonomous Okrug.\n\nSelkups speak the Selkup language, which belongs to the Samoyedic languages of the Uralic language family.\n\nThe Selkups originated in the middle basin of the Ob River, from interactions between the aboriginal Yeniseian population and Samoyedic peoples that came to the region from the Sayan Mountains during the early part of the first millennium CE.\n\nIn the 17th century, some of the Selkups relocated up north to live along the Taz River and Turukhan River. They were engaged mainly in hunting, fishing, and reindeer breeding. In the 18th century, Selkups participated in a massive baptism campaign. However, many returned to their ancient religious beliefs and customs.\n\nAccording to the 2002 Census, there were 4,249 Selkups in Russia (4,300 in 1970).\n\nThere were 62 Selkups in Ukraine, only one of whom is a native speaker of the Selkup language (Ukrainian Census 2001).\n\n"}
{"id": "2004367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004367", "title": "Whataburger Field", "text": "Whataburger Field\n\nWhataburger Field is the minor league baseball stadium located in Corpus Christi, Texas, United States. It is currently home to the Corpus Christi Hooks, the double-A affiliate of the Houston Astros. Along with on-campus Chapman Field, the stadium also serves as one of the homes to the Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi Islanders college baseball team.\n\nThe park, which opened in 2005, is located on what used to be old cotton warehouses upon the city's waterfront. Naming rights were paid for by Whataburger, Inc., which was headquartered in Corpus Christi before relocating to San Antonio in 2009. Fans are able to see the and the Texas State Aquarium from inside the park. As of 2019, Whataburger Field features 5,679 fixed seats, 19 luxury suites and two outfield berm areas that are able to accommodate approximately 2,000 fans. The construction manager was Hunt Construction Group, Inc. of Dallas, Texas.\n\nOn June 30, 2005 the stadium unveiled \"For the Love of the Game\", an 18-foot (5.5 m) statue depicting a young ball player in a contemplative pose. The statue is believed to be the largest bronze statue of a baseball player.\n\nA pair of 1920s-era cotton presses border the videoboard in left field. Under a set of broken windows on the lefthand building, a sign reads \"Bam-Bam\" to commemorate a batting practice blast by Hooks outfielder Hunter Pence in 2006 that smashed one of the windows. Pence earned the nickname Bam-Bam because of his antics and similarities to the baby on the Flintstones.\n\nOn June 26, 2007 Whataburger Field played host to the 2007 Texas League All-Star game.\n\nThe Southland Conference Baseball Tournament was played at Whataburger Field in 2009 and 2010. The conference tournament will return to Whataburger field in 2020.\n\nOn June 10, 2010, the Houston Dynamo played the first-ever soccer match at Whataburger Field before a capacity crowd of 6,111, beating the Laredo Heat 2–1. The Dynamo played in-state rival FC Dallas in a pre-season friendly on February 12, 2011 — becoming the second soccer match ever played at Whataburger Field.\n\nPrior to the 2019 season, the Hooks and Whataburger renewed 15-year naming rights to the ballpark and announced a slew of changes. The roof of Whataburger Field was painted with distinctive orange and white stripes, paying homage to the iconic pattern found at Whataburger restaurants and the private drive bordering the west side of the stadium was renamed Whataburger Way. As part of a ticket package, Whataburger 4Topps now line the top of Section 120, providing fans with the unique opportunity to dine at Whataburger-branded tables with adjoining 360-degree swivel chairs and Whataburger wait service.\n\nDuring a pregame ceremony on September 1, 2019, the Hooks announced plans to name the entrance to Whataburger Field Ken Schrom Plaza, honoring their retiring longtime front office executive and president who was notorious for greeting fans at that very plaza before and after games.\n\nSpanning from right to center field and beyond, Whataburger Field offers fans views of Corpus Christi Harbor Bridge, which displays changing LED lights at night. A public lighting ceremony was held at the stadium on December 4, 2011. A new Harbor Bridge Project was underway as of 2017, expected to be completed by 2021, which will alter the bridge trajectory to beyond left field rather than right.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004368", "title": "Rich's (department store)", "text": "Rich's (department store)\n\nRich's was a department store retail chain, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, that operated in the southern U.S. from 1867 until March 6, 2005 when the nameplate was eliminated and replaced by Macy's. Many of the former Rich's stores today form the core of Macy's Central, an Atlanta-based division of Macy's, Inc., which formerly operated as Federated Department Stores, Inc.\n\nThe retailer began in Atlanta as M. Rich & Co., a dry goods store, on 28 May 1867, at 36 Whitehall Street, sole proprietor Mauritius Reich (Anglicized to Morris Rich), a Hungarian Jewish immigrant. It was renamed M. Rich & Bro. in 1877, when he and brother Emanuel formed a partnership. In 1884 when the third brother Daniel was admitted into the partnership, the name became M. Rich & Bros. With business success came a need for expansion, and the store was moved to ever larger locations: in July 1875 to 35 Whitehall; in September 1875 to 43 Whitehall; in October 1875, to 65 Whitehall, at the corner of Hunter (now M.L. King Blvd.); and in September, 1882, to 54-56 Whitehall.\n\nBy 1877, Rich's was considered one of the \"Big Five\" stores in town, in the league of Chamberlain, Boyton, & Co.; Ryan's; Keeley's; and Dougherty's; and later, of the J.M. High Company.\n\nIn 1901 Rich's became a true department store when they divided like merchandise into separated sections. The company was incorporated as M. Rich & Bros. Co. In 1906, the adjacent M. Kutz & Co. building at 52 Whitehall was acquired. Both it and 54-56 Whitehall were torn down. Rich's closed its furniture annex and moved its dry goods to that building, until a new building could be built on the site of 52-54-56 Whitehall. In April 1907 the new 'emporium' opened for business. That building is still standing, known as the M. Rich and Brothers and Company Building at its current address of 82 Peachtree St. SE.\n\nIn 1924 Rich's moved into its last flagship store at 45 Broad St. SE, between Alabama and Hunter streets, which it would occupy until closing in 1991, That building, a part of the Sam Nunn Atlanta Federal Center complex, was added to eight times during its department store life. It is an example of Palazzo style architecture, a favorite theme associated with department stores constructed in the early twentieth century. The 1946/1948 Store for Homes addition, to the west of the 1924 building across Forsyth Street, was one of Atlanta's earliest examples of International Style architecture.\n\nIn 1929, the company was reorganized and the retail portion of the business became, simply, Rich's, while a new, separate venture named M. Rich & Bros. Co. would operate as a real estate company.\n\nDaniel's son Walter Rich succeeded his uncle Morris as Rich's president from 1926 to 1947. The grandson of Morris Rich, Richard H. Rich, took over the store in 1949. Under the leadership of Richard Rich, affectionately known as Dick Rich, Rich's began expansion in the 1950s. Rich's moved outside the Atlanta area for its first new store in 1955 when a store in Knoxville Tennessee was opened. Rich's opened its first suburban store at Lenox Square in 1959, Georgia's first shopping mall. The open-air mall shared space with the other major Atlanta department store, Davison's. That same year Rich's also opened a store at Belvedere Plaza Shopping Center, a large two-level strip mall in Belvedere Park near Decatur and more recently famous for its \"wigs and beepers\" store. Rich's sold off its Knoxville store to Miller's when profits fell off, and refocused on its Georgia stores.\n\nTwo holiday traditions associated with Rich's were the Great Tree and the Pink Pig. Starting in 1948, the Great Tree, conceptualized by executive Frank Pallotta, was a massive pine, set on top of the multi-level glass \"Crystal Bridge\" connecting the main downtown Atlanta store which housed the \"Store for Fashion\" with the \"Store For Homes\" across Forsyth Street. After the closure of the downtown store in 1991, the Great Tree, and the annual Thanksgiving evening tree-lighting festivities, moved to nearby Underground Atlanta. After several years of poor attendance, the Tree was moved to the top of the Men's Store at the Lenox Square location. This placed the tree on the corner of the mall closest to the prominent intersection of Peachtree and Lenox Roads. The tree lighting ceremony traditionally features country and pop music performers from Georgia, such as Kenny Rogers, several choirs from local churches, and a rendition of \"O Holy Night\" with the tree being lit by a child during the high note of the line \"O night divine.\"\n\nThe Pink Pig (installed in 1956 and known originally as The Snowball Express) was a child-scaled monorail that hung from the toy department's ceiling in the downtown Store for Fashion. In 1965, it was moved to the roof of the store where a second monorail was added and the duo became known as the Pink Pig Flyers (receiving the names of Priscilla and Percival in the 1970s). The front car of the trains had pig faces and the last cars had curly tails. For many years after the closure of the downtown store, the Pink Pigs were set up at the Festival of Trees at the Georgia World Congress Center. Macy's Lenox Square continues the holiday tradition using a redesigned child-sized train (rather than a monorail) set up on the top level of the Lenox Road Parking Deck. The train ride takes riders through a storybook tale of Priscilla Pig. The original Pink Pig Flyers monorail cars are now at the Atlanta History Center where they are occasionally displayed.\n\nIn 1967, \"Atlanta Constitution\" columnist Celestine Sibley wrote \"Dear Store: An Affectionate Portrait of Rich's\". In it, she mentioned notable acts by Rich's staff and management, including the cashing of scrip payments made by the City of Atlanta to its schoolteachers during a financial crisis, accepting returns of worn nylons during World War II shortages, and the efforts of their personal shopper service, \"Penelope Penn,\" to find the perfect gift for thousands of customers who wrote to them. The title of the book comes from a letter in which a child offers to trade his younger sister for a toy that he wants.\n\nThe book also relates the story of Coretta Scott King, who chose to shop at Rich's for a coat when her husband, Martin Luther King, Jr. was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The salesperson advised Mrs. King not to buy a fur, because it would compare unfavorably to the extravagant furs worn by the Scandinavian attendees, instead selecting a conservative cloth coat for the occasion.\n\nRich's most aggressive expansion was during the 1960s and 1970s. Four more stores opened in the Atlanta area in the 1960s, two of those enormous three-story full-line stores. While this expansion resulted in continued success of the chain, it chipped away at the business of the downtown store. By this time, Rich's was the leading regional department store in the country, though it remained largely unknown by the general public outside of Georgia. This would soon change, however.\n\nThroughout the 1970s, four more Rich's locations opened in Georgia including one in Augusta, the first in the state outside of Atlanta. Rich's also began an aggressive expansion with stores in Alabama and South Carolina. Also, there were plans much later in the early 1990s to expand Rich's into Charlotte, but these were scrapped. Of all the stores out of state, stores opened in Greenville, Columbia and Birmingham (with two, adding a third in 1986) created stiffer competition in those cities against regional chains Pizitz, Loveman's and Parisian.\n\nThe sale to Federated in 1976 ended over 100 years of ownership by the Rich family. Aside from the Great Tree, most of the traditions of Rich's and the departments (including the bakery) were all stripped away by the early 1990s. Loyalty to the chain, however, remained very strong even after the downtown flagship store was closed in 1991.\n\nIn 1994, the parent company of Rich's bought out Macy's, which was historically Atlanta's rival chain under the Davison's banner. The following year, Rich's was merged with Lazarus in the midwest and Goldsmith's in Memphis. Through the merged division, the chain grew in a corporate sense as it was operated out of Atlanta, but the Lazarus and Goldsmith's stores continued to operate under their regional names. The merger with Goldsmith's occurred in 1988 and Lazarus in 1995. Lazarus was one of Federated's founding store chains.\n\nWhen Rich's and Macy's both were owned by the same company, this resulted in the overlapping of the two chains all selling the same products. Initially, both stores remained open with Macy's losing its higher-end merchandise and becoming distinctly downmarket when compared with Rich's. The decision was made in 2003 to close all of the former Davison's/Macy's stores in Atlanta (no new Macy's stores had been built in Atlanta since Town Center at Cobb in 1986) and co-brand Rich's as Rich's-Macy's. The only original Macy's/Davison's store to remain open is Northlake Mall - originally the downtown Atlanta store was to remain open, but a sudden change of direction by Macy's corporate closed the last major retailer in downtown Atlanta. The cobranded name change was intended to slowly phase out the chain instead of a sudden change so as to reduce the backlash over the elimination of an Atlanta institution that was one of the institutions that defined the city, similar to Marshall Field's in Chicago. As Macy's was a well-known part of the Atlanta retail landscape since its purchase of Davison's in the 1920s, loyal Rich's customers who defected to other stores were replaced by longtime Macy's/Davison's customers.\n\nThe same year that Rich's and Macy's merged, the downtown Macy's (Davison's flagship store) was closed. Also in the merger, the Lenox Square Macy's and Perimeter Mall Macy's (both former Davison's) reopened as Bloomingdale's. The Perimeter Mall location closed in March 2012, reopening as a branch of the Von Maur chain. The Lenox Square location is still open as of 2020. The rest closed except for the Town Center Mall store, the middle floor of which is currently a Macy's Furniture store; the upper floor is a Macy's Furniture Clearance Center; the lower floor is currently Macy's Men's Store. The following year, when the Cobb Center Mall store closed, the furniture clearance center was relocated there.\n\nIn 1995, the downtown Atlanta Rich's 1924 store became part of the Sam Nunn Atlanta Federal Center. It is known as \"The 1924 Building\". The Store For Homes, the \"Crystal Bridge,\" and a concrete parking deck with a locally-famous spiral down ramp were razed, and replaced by a high-rise, a small building containing a McDonald's and other retail space, and a more substantial connector between the high-rise and the original 1924 Rich's building. The top floor of the 1924 building, a later addition of concrete and glass block not in the style of the original, was removed. An addition in the style of the original was built on the corner of Forsyth and Old Alabama Streets, which had been a park and previously the location of the offices of \"The Atlanta Journal\" before its merger with \"The Atlanta Constitution\".\n\nAfter 138 years, Rich's (later as Rich's-Macy's) brand disappeared on March 6, 2005. Other historical retail nameplates \"Goldsmith-Macy's\" and \"Lazarus-Macy's\" were eliminated, with the stores rebranded as Macy's. Atlanta-area stores are in the Macy's Southeast Region with Atlanta East & Atlanta West Districts. A signature event of the store, Rich's Great Tree, continues as an annual Thanksgiving event in Atlanta at the Lenox location as Macy's Great Tree. Some buildings which once housed Rich's stores continue to operate under the Macy's banner. Some former Rich's buildings are no longer in use, as the malls which housed them have been shuttered. The Richway discount store chain, founded in 1968, was sold, and in 1988 became a part of Target Stores.\n\nMorris, Emanuel, and Daniel Rich are buried at Oakland Cemetery in east Atlanta. Walter Rich and Dick Rich are buried at Westview Cemetery in southwest Atlanta. Many of the Rich family descendants reside in the Atlanta area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004369", "title": "Turtle Mountain Provincial Park", "text": "Turtle Mountain Provincial Park\n\nTurtle Mountain Provincial Park is a provincial park located in the southwestern portion of the Canadian province of Manitoba. Within it are the Adam Lake and Max Lake campgrounds. The park is known for its bike trails, fishing, back country cabins and canoe routes. The park is very popular with families and outdoor enthusiasts.\n\nThe park is named after the numerous painted turtles found in the area. The turtles can be seen throughout the warmer months sun bathing near permanent ponds or lakes in the park. In late spring and early summer the females can be seen laying eggs in sandy soil throughout the park. The turtles live in the shallow lakes in the park.\n\nTurtle Mountain Provincial Park was designated a provincial park by the Government of Manitoba in 1961. The park is in size. The park is considered to be a Class II protected area under the IUCN protected area management categories.\n\nIt is adjacent to the international border between Canada and the United States. Its southeast corner is adjacent to the International Peace Garden which is located in both Manitoba and the U.S. state of North Dakota. To the east is the William Lake Provincial Park, home to the William Lake Campground, and the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Administration. To the north is the town of Boissevain, with the city of Brandon farther north. Most of the park is situated in the southwesternmost section of the Municipality of Boissevain – Morton, while the rest of it lies in the southeast corner of the Municipality of Deloraine – Winchester. \n\nThe park is nearly coterminous with the slightly larger Turtle Mountain Provincial Forest. The only difference is a small section of the forest lying east of Manitoba Highway 10 at the southeast corner of the forest (near the International Peace Garden), which is outside the park's territory. \n\nFollowing the last ice age, Turtle Mountain Provincial Park became the first inhabited location in Manitoba. It is also the biggest remaining natural deciduous forest in southwestern Manitoba. Once coniferous forests grew and animals were attracted to the area, nomadic hunters soon followed. Stone tools have been found, confirming their presence. Based on the exhumed artifacts, archaeologists have concluded these people were hunter gatherers, not farmers.\n\nIn 1875 George Mercer Dawson became the first geologist to travel through Turtle Mountain Provincial Park. Dawson noted the glacial deposits throughout the park. \n\nMétis from the Red River Colony travelled to Turtle Mountain Provincial Park for annual hunting trips between 1810 and 1870. After the buffalo hunt ended many Métis built homesteads within the park. Two notable cultural sites are the Dunseith Trail and Oskar Lake archeological site. The Dunseith Trail was the first trail across Turtle Mountain, and the archeological site was used by Cree hunters over 400 years ago.\n\nFormerly, the park was predominantly used for agricultural purposes due to the presence of hardwoods. The area is no longer dependant on Turtle Mountain for timber, so it is now mainly used for recreation and ranching. There is a trail system used for biking, hiking, and horseback riding. There are also various beaches, playgrounds, and picnic areas for recreational use. The eutrophication of many of the water bodies can make it difficult for recreation in the summer. The most common type of farming is grain farming.\n\nTurtle Mountain Provincial Park is situated on the Turtle Mountain (plateau), one of a number of significant geographic features located along the Manitoba Escarpment, the Canadian portion of the Pembina Escarpment. It is located in the Southwest Manitoba Uplands Ecoregion, within the Canadian Prairies. The park is situated at an elevation of 245 metres. This region is covered by glacial till and fluvioglacial deposits, which remain from the pleistocene ice age. A study of dinoflagellates confirmed the paleocene age of the Turtle Mountain formation. Once deglaciation finished 14,000 years ago the irregular melting pattern left the area covered in hummocky terrain. The soils are mainly grey and black chernozems. There are grey luvisols at higher elevations. The bedrock in the park is composed of sandstone, shale, lignite coal. There are over 200 lakes and wetlands in this region. Many of the shorelines are covered in thick vegetation due to the littoral zone cattails. This park is home to the largest oak trees in Manitoba, which are the lone survivors of a fire that occurred in the early 20th century. Many of the water bodies are less than 15 feet deep, which often results in a winter decline in fish populations due to lack of oxygen. \n\nTurtle Mountain Provincial Park is located within the temperate deciduous forest, and is predominantly covered by Populus tremuloides (trembling aspen). Other vegetation species include balsam poplar and bur oak. Turtle mountain is home to many wildlife species such as moose, white-tailed deer, beaver, raccoons, and various types of birds. The lakes contain various fish species such as rainbow and brown trout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004370", "title": "Teleuts", "text": "Teleuts\n\nTeleuts are a Turkic people living in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia. According to the 2002 census, there were 2,650 Teleuts in Russia. Their language is classified as a southern dialect within the group of dialects called the Altay language.\n\nThe Teleuts were once part of the Tiele people. They came under the rule of the First Turkic Khaganate. The Teleuts emerged from the result of Kipchaks and Mongols mixing together. Near the end of the 16th century, the Teleuts wandered the steppe between the Irtysh and the Ob'. They became nominal subjects to the Oirats at this period. Their population at this time numbered 4,000 tents. \n\nThe Russians gained control of the region in the mid eighteenth century and the Teleuts subsequently became their subjects. The Russians called the Teleuts \"White Kalmyks\" in their documents despite the ethnic and linguistic differences between the Kalmyks and Teleuts.\n\nThe Teleuts consider themselves to be a distinct people and many don't accept being labeled as Altaian. The majority of the Teleuts live along the Great and Little Bachat Rivers in Kemerovo Oblast. However, a few Teleuts also live in the Altai Republic.\n\nMost Teleuts used to be nomadic or semi-nomadic livestock herders and horses, goats, cattle, and sheep were the most common types of animals they raised. Some Teleuts were hunters and relied on animals living in the taiga for subsistence.\n\nTraditional Teleut dwellings included conic yurts made out of bark or perches.\n\nCommon Teleut dress was composed of linen shirts, short breeches, and single-breasted robes.\n\nMost Teleuts are Orthodox Christians. However, there is a significant minority that practice shamanism and Sunni Islam. Burkhanism is practiced by some Altaians as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004373", "title": "Orok people", "text": "Orok people\n\nOroks (\"Ороки\" in Russian; self-designation: \"Ulta, Ulcha\"), sometimes called Uilta, are a people in the Sakhalin Oblast (mainly the eastern part of the island) in Russia. The Orok language belongs to the Southern group of the Tungusic language family. According to the 2002 Russian census, there were 346 Oroks living in Northern Sakhalin by the Okhotsk Sea and Southern Sakhalin in the district by the city of Poronaysk. According to the 2010 census there were 295 Oroks in Russia.\n\nThe name Orok is believed to derive from the exonym \"Oro\" given by a Tungusic group meaning \"a domestic reindeer\". The Orok self-designation endonym is \"Ul'ta\", probably from the root \"Ula\" (meaning \"domestic reindeer\" in Orok). Another self-designation is \"Nani\". Occasionally, the Oroks, as well as the Orochs and Udege, are erroneously called Orochons.\n\nThe total number of Oroks in Russia, according to the 2002 Russian Census, is 346 people. They live mostly in Sakhalin Oblast. Most of the Oroks are concentrated in three settlements – Poronaysk, Nogliki and the village of Val, Nogliksky District. A total of 144 Oroks live in Val. Other places in which the Orok people live include: the villages of Gastello and Vakhrushev in Poronaysky District; the village of Viakhtu in Alexandrovsk-Sakhalinsky District; the village of Smirnykh, Smirnykhovsky District; Okhinsky District; and Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, the administrative center of Sakhalin Oblast.\n\nFurthermore, Orok people live on the island of Hokkaido, Japan – in 1989, there was a community of about 20 people near the city of Abashiri. Their number is currently unknown.\n\nOrok oral tradition indicates that the Oroks share history with the Ulch people, and that they migrated to Sakhalin from the area of the Amgun River in mainland Russia. Research indicates that this migration probably took place in the 17th century at the latest.\n\nThe Russian Empire gained complete control over Orok lands after the 1858 Treaty of Aigun and 1860 Convention of Peking. A penal colony was established on Sakhalin between 1857 and 1906, bringing large numbers of Russian criminals and political exiles, including Lev Sternberg, an important early ethnographer on Oroks and the island's other indigenous people, the Nivkhs and Ainu. Before Soviet collectivization in the 1920s, the Orok were divided into five groups, each with their own migratory zone. However, following the Bolshevik Revolution in 1922, the new government of the Soviet Union altered prior imperial policies towards the Oroks to bring them into line with communist ideology. In 1932, the northern Oroks joined the collective farm of Val, which was specialised in reindeer breeding, together with smaller numbers of Nivkhs, Evenks and Russians.\n\nFollowing the Russo-Japanese War, southern Sakhalin came under the control of the Empire of Japan, which administered it as Karafuto Prefecture. The Uilta, or Oroks, were classified as \"Karafuto natives\" (樺太土人), and were not entered into Japanese-style family registers, in contrast to the Ainu, who had \"mainland Japan\" family registers. Like the Karafuto Koreans and the Nivkh, but unlike the Ainu, the Uilta were thus not included in the evacuation of Japanese nationals after the Soviet invasion in 1945. Some Nivkhs and Uilta who served in the Imperial Japanese Army were held in Soviet work camps; after court cases in the late 1950s and 1960s, they were recognised as Japanese nationals and thus permitted to migrate to Japan. Most settled around Abashiri, Hokkaidō. The Uilta Kyokai of Japan was founded to fight for Uilta rights and the preservation of Uilta traditions in 1975 by Dahinien Gendanu.\n\nThe Orok language belongs to the Southern group of the Tungusic language family. At present, 64 people of the Sakhalin Oroks speak the Orok language, and all Oroks also speak Russian. An alphabetic script, based on Cyrillic, was introduced in 2007. A primer has been published, and the language is taught in one school on Sakhalin.\n\nThe Oroks share cultural and linguistic links with other Tungusic peoples, but before the arrival of Russians, they differed economically from similar peoples due to their herding of reindeer. Reindeer provided the Oroks, particularly in northern Sakhalin, with food, clothing, and transportation. The Oroks also practiced fishing and hunting. The arrival of Russians has had a major effect on Orok culture, and most Oroks today live sedentary lifestyles. Some northern Oroks still practice semi-nomadic herding alongside vegetable farming and cattle ranching; in the south, the leading occupations are fishing and industrial labor.\n\nThe Orok boys, when it came of time, would usually participate in a Sturgeon Hunt, usually hunting for the Beluga or Kaluga Sturgeon variants. This involved a lone Orok going out, with only a small supply of food (usually enough to last him a week) and armed with a special type of spear. Once the sturgeon was killed, the hunter would take one of the predator's teeth and carve a mark in his forehead or arm, which indicated that the hunt was successful. Due to the fish's size, strength and fierceness, failure to successfully kill the Sturgeon usually resulted in the hunter's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004376", "title": "List of NWA World Tag Team Champions", "text": "List of NWA World Tag Team Champions\n\nThe NWA World Tag Team Championship is a professional wrestling World Tag Team championship contested in various National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) affiliates. The NWA did not officially recognize any tag team champions until 1992 while various affiliates had previously had their own Tag Team championships.\n\nAs of 17, 2020. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004380", "title": "Udege people", "text": "Udege people\n\nUdege (\"Удэгейцы\" in Russian; ethnonym: \"удээ\" and \"удэхе\", or Udihe, Udekhe, and Udeghe correspondingly) are a people who live in the Primorsky Krai and Khabarovsk Krai regions in Russia, the native population of this region. They live along the tributaries of the Ussuri, Amur, Kungari, and Anyuy Rivers. The Udege speak the Udege language, which belongs to the Tungusic language family. Their religious beliefs include animism, animal worship, and shamanism. The Udege are mainly engaged in hunting, fishing, and ginseng harvesting. According to the 2002 census, there were 1,657 Udege in Russia, a slight increase from 1,500 in 1970. According to the 2010 census there were 1,496 Udege in Russia. They are one of the closest ethnic groups to the Manchu and Nanai, and are possibly of Jianzhou Jurchen origin.\n\nUdege biggest settlements are in:<br>\n- Khabarovsk krai: Gvasiugi (Imeni Lazo District) and Arsenievo (Nanaysky District) <br>\n- Primorsky kra: Agzu (Terneysky District), Krasny Yar and Olon (Pozharsky District)\n\nSince the advent of Perestroika, the Udege, led by Pavel Sulyandziga, have been actively involved in the struggle for control over their traditional territories along the Bikin River. A central objective has been the establishment of a Territory of Traditional Natural Resource Use of federal status, which was proposed in cooperation with the national umbrella organisation RAIPON and the Russian Institute of Anthropology and Ethnography but failed to be approved by the authorities.\n\nOut of 40 Udeges living in Ukraine, only 8 declared Udege as their native language. Most of the Udeges in Ukraine indicated Russian (19) or Ukrainian (6) as their native language. 7 of them named another language.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004384", "title": "Chibi-Robo! (video game)", "text": "Chibi-Robo! (video game)\n\nChibi-Robo! is a platform-adventure video game for the GameCube developed by Skip Ltd. and published by Nintendo. The game was released in Japan in 2005, and in North America and Europe the following year. Originally conceived as a point-and-click adventure game, it was put on developmental hold until Nintendo producer Shigeru Miyamoto gained interest in the title and overhauled its production.\n\nThe player takes on the role of the eponymous Chibi-Robo, a 10-centimeter-tall robot owned by the Sanderson family. Gameplay revolves around navigating a household and collecting \"Happy Points\" by completing various tasks from housework to helping solve the dilemmas of the Sanderson family and the numerous living toys that inhabit their household. Every action consumes energy, requiring the player to recharge using electrical outlets.\n\n\"Chibi-Robo!\" was generally well received, with praise for the premise, the charming storyline, and sound design. However, some gameplay mechanics and the quality of the graphics drew some criticism. Sales of \"Chibi-Robo!\" were modest. It spawned several sequels. For the Nintendo DS, \"\" was released in 2007 and \"Okaeri! Chibi-Robo! Happy Richie Ōsōji!\" was released in 2009, the latter being a Japan-exclusive. For the Nintendo 3DS, \"Chibi-Robo! Photo Finder\" was released in Japan in 2013 and in North America in 2014, and \"Chibi-Robo! Zip Lash\" was released in 2015. The original \"Chibi-Robo!\" also saw a Japanese re-release in 2009 for the Wii as part of the New Play Control! series.\n\n\"Chibi-Robo!\" takes place in a 1960s-style American home and revolves around a tiny, highly advanced robot of the same name given as a birthday gift to the socially withdrawn eight-year-old Jenny Sanderson by her father. This is much to the dismay of Jenny's mother, a homemaker who is constantly stressed over how much money her husband spends on toys despite his unemployment. Chibi-Robo is packaged with a small \"Chibi-House\" and an assistant named Telly Vision who speaks on his behalf. Each of the one million Chibi-Robos in the world is supposed to collect \"Happy Points\" by doing good deeds for their owners and must occasionally charge their batteries at electrical outlets. During the night, or when humans are not around in the Sandersons' house, several toys come to life, including the superhero action figure Drake Redcrest, a group of egg-shaped army men called the Free Rangers, a wooden pirate named Plankbeard, and others. Chibi-Robo eventually finds a large robot in the basement called Giga-Robo, who was once a companion of the Sandersons', but had to be deactivated due to its high electricity consumption. Chibi-Robo attempts to revive Giga-Robo by fully charging its massive battery and makes it a goal to find Giga-Robo's missing leg, but is attacked by spider-like robots called Spydorz.\n\nWhen Mr. Sanderson purchases yet another toy, his wife locks herself in her room and tells him that she wants a divorce, prompting the rest of the family to do housework in an attempt to make up for it. Meanwhile, Chibi-Robo finds a strange pattern in the backyard and uses his radar to contact an alien species. Once the aliens land and greet him, Chibi-Robo uses a time machine made by the visitors to go into the past to find a code to enter a safe in the master bedroom containing Giga Robo's leg. He returns to the present to open the safe, but several larger Spydorz are released and capture the Sandersons. It is revealed that Mr. Sanderson originally created the Spydorz to be friends with the Chibi-Robos, but his toy company reprogrammed them to be hostile, causing Mr. Sanderson to quit his job. Mr. Sanderson upgrades Chibi-Robo's blaster weapon, allowing the small robot to defeat the Queen Spydor, recover Giga-Robo's missing leg, and rescue the Sandersons. Chibi-Robo reactivates Giga-Robo, and the aliens meet them in the backyard. The aliens explain that the toys are able to walk and talk due to a request from Giga-Robo to give them life and to give all Giga-Robos infinite battery power to prevent their energy consumption. The aliens could not do the latter at the time and returned to their own planet to obtain the item necessary to grant Giga-Robo's wish. They then give Giga-Robo this ability, who shares it with Chibi-Robo and the rest of the robots in the world as well, eliminating the energy problem.\n\n\"Chibi-Robo!\" is a platform-adventure game that puts the player in direct control of a tiny, battery-powered robot that does housework for humans. The objective of the game is to become the top-ranked \"Super Chibi-Robo\" in the world by accumulating Happy Points, a collectible gained by doing good deeds for the family and for various toys in the Sandersons' home. In order to do this, the player must control Chibi-Robo and explore the Sandersons' home. During exploration, Chibi-Robo can find a wide variety of things to collect, including \"Moolah\", the currency of \"Chibi-Robo!\". An important task in gaining Happy Points is to clean up messes around the house, such as disposing of trash or scrubbing dirty footprints. The player can also interact with and help with the personal problems of the Sandersons and the toys. This ranges from solving a plot-driving crisis or completing a subquest of simply locating a lost object as a favor. With Chibi-Robo's assistant Telly Vision as his speaker, the player is often prompted to give either a positive or negative response to each question or request. The player loses battery power with every step and action. If his battery is not charged before it empties, Chibi-Robo will collapse and re-emerge in the Chibi-House, having lost half of his Moolah. Throughout the house are electrical outlets, which the player can plug into to recharge his battery or save his progress. The player's exploration is limited by a timer representing a full day or full night. Once the timer expires, Chibi-Robo automatically returns to the Chibi-House.\n\nThere are three collectibles in the game. One is the stickers, which can be obtained throughout the game, either by completing the game, completing quests, playing mini-games, or doing simple tasks for other NPCs. The Second is the Frog Rings which can be collected and given to Jenny, the daughter of the Sanderson household, for Happy Points and a sticker. The third is the crayons found throughout the house which can be deposited in a crayon box for Happy Points.\n\nAt the start of both day and night, the player begins in the Chibi-House, where they can charge Chibi-Robo's battery, save at the electrical outlet, or connect to the Citrusoft \"Chibi-PC\" to purchase a variety of items and power-ups with Moolah and use scrap metal to build \"Utilibots\", robotic helpers that ease the navigation of the Sandersons' home. The gear available from Citrusoft includes the \"Chibi-Copter\", used to reach far-off points or fly down from a high place safely; the \"Chibi-Blaster\", used to eliminate obstacles and fend off the hostile Spydorz; and the \"Chibi-Radar\", used to detect hidden objects. There are several other items of the Sandersons' that Chibi-Robo can find and use. These include the toothbrush, used to clean up stains; the coffee mug, used for protection; the spoon, used to dig holes; and the squirter, used to hold fluids and squirt them. Chibi-Robo can also gain special costumes throughout the game, each of which has its own function. For instance, if the player poses for Mr. Sanderson while wearing The Drake Redcrest costume, he will give Chibi-Robo Happy Points. As more Happy Points are acquired, the player's rank increases among all the Chibi-Robos in the world. At certain ranks, Citrusoft will send the player bonus batteries, allowing Chibi-Robo to roam longer without having to recharge.\n\n\"Chibi-Robo!\" was developed by Skip Ltd.. \"Chibi-Robo!\" was announced in early 2003 with publishing rights held by Bandai. Its original projected release date was June 2003 in Japan and spring 2004 in North America. Unlike the released version of \"Chibi-Robo!\", the beta version entailed the player training Chibi-Robo to defend the home of his inventor from a pair of burglars. The gameplay was different as well; instead of a platform-adventure game, it played like a point-and-click adventure title, where the player was not in direct control of Chibi-Robo, but was rather conveying commands to him by clicking a cursor around the area. The protagonist was also to learn and develop depending on the choices the player made for him. However, this incarnation of \"Chibi-Robo!\" was ultimately put on \"indefinite hold\" and disappeared from the media. Shigeru Miyamoto was eventually introduced to the game by fellow Nintendo producer Kensuke Tanabe. Miyamoto took a personal interest in the character of Chibi-Robo and signed on as the game's senior producer. The development of \"Chibi-Robo!\" was revamped with Nintendo acting as its new publisher. \"Chibi-Robo!\" was in development for four years from start to finish.\n\nDirector Kenichi Nishi had previous development credits such as \"Chrono Trigger\", \"\" and \"Incredible Crisis\". Nishi's approach to game design, even with \"Chibi-Robo!\", was to always take a standard, orthodox method and \"crash it, twist it, or create a totally different direction\". The reason Nishi chose to make the majority of the cast toys is because humans are \"too big to interact with [Chibi-Robo] and create all the drama\" and that it added a sense of fantasy to the experience. The family dog Tao had appeared in Nishi's previous games: \"Moon: Remix RPG Adventure\" and \"\". The director based the dog on his own pet because he felt that the \"black-and-white color is very simple and universal\". Despite the game's overall happy attitude, the game designers put some emphasis on serious topics such as divorce, loneliness, pollution, and loss. \"If we only concentrate on cheerful fun, we'll lose depth,\" Nishi explained. \"There's nothing surprising for people if the game looks cheerful and the experience is cheerful. There are no surprises or unexpected things.\" Still, rather than use these topics as major themes for the player, Nishi felt it would be more effective to bring them in as \"ordinary things to enhance the adventure of daily life\".\n\nAll the music and sound in \"Chibi-Robo!\" were composed by Hirofumi Taniguchi. He wanted to make unique sound patterns and motifs for each character, and even used human voices to create the system sounds, such as on the menu selections. All of the noises made by Chibi-Robo's actions were phrased. Taniguchi used both woodwind and electronic instruments for the character's actions, the former because \"Chibi's actions are not ordinary robotlike actions\" and the latter because he did not want to totally eliminate his mechanical characteristics. Different background music is played for the day and night cycles, but they lack melody because Chibi-Robo's footsteps create a melody at random. The tempo of his footsteps was designed to match the background music; if he picks up his plug to walk faster, the music speeds up. All of the game's music was compiled on the \"Chibi-Robo! Limited Soundtrack\", a CD released alongside an official 142-page guidebook and published by Shogakukan in Japan in August 2005.\n\n\"Chibi-Robo!\" has enjoyed a generally favorable critical reception. \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" ranked it the 88th best game available on Nintendo platforms. The staff felt that it was the GameCube's \"last classic.\" Critics Greg Mueller of GameSpot, Mathew Kumar of Eurogamer, Bryn Williams of GameSpy, Shane Satterfield of G4, and Matt Casamassina of IGN all applauded the game's charming setting, compelling storyline, and complex characters. Casamassina found that the fashion in which the main plot and objectives are sewn together is part of the reason the game is enjoyable. Mueller, Kumar, and Satterfield noted endearing, charismatic qualities among the various toy characters. Kumar heeded \"Chibi-Robo!\" as \"honestly one of the most touching games I've played in ages\" in which the player often becomes engrossed in \"events that pan out like miniature plays, with love triangles (nay, love dodecahedrons) between toys, and some scenes with a real pathos behind them\". Considering the joyous atmosphere of \"Chibi-Robo!\", Satterfield was pleasantly surprised at its inclusion of controversial topics like divorce and its possible distortion of a target audience. This attribute was criticized by Jinny Gudmundsen, a columnist for \"USA Today\", who thought that the interpersonal issues negate the game's overall charm and render it inappropriate for younger children. Writers for \"Computer Games Magazine\" praised \"Chibi-Robo\" by interpreting deep, symbolic meaning in its more subtle aspects. The publication found the game to use \"overarching narrative arcs\" and \"stock melodramatic devices\" among the Sandersons' dysfunctional interactions, \"emotional crisis points, downtime, and rhythms and cycles of action\" between its day and night events, and \"evocative music\" as a way for characters to communicate their feelings.\n\nOpinions on the gameplay of \"Chibi-Robo!\" have been mixed. Among the more positive reactions, Casamassina assessed the cleaning mechanics as \"very fun and very rewarding\", while Kumar compared the game to the \"Story of Seasons\" series due to both entities convert seemingly boring tasks into something fun. James Mielke of 1UP.com similarly enjoyed the \"near-constant sense of discovery\" and the tiny details included by Skip with earning Happy Points and Moolah. Casamassina, Mielke, and Williamson were satisfied that they had to frequently recharge Chibi-Robo, but Mueller was dismayed to have to stop one's current task in order to find an outlet. The GameSpot contributor was also aggravated with the mere five-minute intervals for the day and night cycles, which he considered a major interruption of the game's pacing. Contrarily, Kumar felt the pacing was appropriate and Williamson viewed the feature as a \"flexible difficulty level setting\". Satterfield proclaimed that although the gameplay is somewhat varied, most of it is constituted by the tedious location and collection of objects for the non-player characters. Jeremy Zoss of \"Game Informer\" was displeased with the game as whole and wrote that it was \"not a platformer, but more of a 3D adventure game composed entirely of fetch-quests and repetitive menial labor\".\n\nThe audio design of \"Chibi-Robo!\", particularly its integration of different instrumental tones for the hero's various actions, was lauded by the press. Kumar felt that its utilization of sound could be \"the seed of a new way of using music in games\". Casamassina commented, \"Few developers would be brave enough to create a title whose main character generates varying musical notes whenever he takes a step, but this is exactly what Chibi does - and it's actually very whimsical and cute.\" Although many critics appreciated the bright and colorful features of the accompanying aesthetics, they also judged the graphical presentation as dated. Casamassina encountered low-polygon 3D models and a below-average frame rate; Satterfield stated the game operated at \"Dreamcast level\". Other portions of \"Chibi-Robo!\" were assessed as unpolished as well. Several sources noted the game's default camera system to be unwieldy, combersome, or frustrating at times. However, Mueller noted that switching to the top-down or first-person viewpoints and the ability to center the camera behind Chibi-Robo alleviates most of its problems. Satterfield and Casamassina regarded the cutscenes as awkward and repetitive; the former of the two claimed that they \"amount to ugly characters recycling the same animation routine over and over while gibberish comes from their gaping maws\". Kumar perceived the game's combat to be \"messy\", \"uninteresting\", and \"entirely unnecessary\".\n\n\"Chibi-Robo!\" was not a significant commercial success. According to Media Create, the GameCube version was the fourth best-selling game in Japan for its week ending June 26, 2005 with nearly 29,000 copies sold. The game managed to sell 97,879 units in Japan alone by the end of 2005. The Wii port of the game did not fare as well; it only sold 11,000 copies in Japan for the week ending June 14, 2009 and a total of 38,573 copies throughout the remainder of that year.\n\n\"Chibi-Robo!\" received a sequel in 2007 for the Nintendo DS called \"\", which follows a different Chibi-Robo as it attempts to revitalize a park. Nintendo established a deal with Wal-Mart for the exclusive rights to sell it in the United States. A second sequel for the DS, titled \"Okaeri! Chibi-Robo! Happy Richie Ōsōji!\", saw a Japanese release in 2009. It involves yet another Chibi-Robo vacuuming dirt for money within the home of an adult Jenny. The original \"Chibi-Robo!\" was re-released as part of New Play Control!, a selection of Wii remakes of GameCube games. The remake features special Wii Remote controls for the game's tools. Aiming the remote allows the player to change perspective, while pointing it at interactive objects with will be identified with a sound. The remake was released in Japan on June 11, 2009, but Nintendo of America did not permit an English release. A fourth game in the series, \"Chibi-Robo! Photo Finder\", was released in 2013 for the Nintendo 3DS. The fifth game in the series, titled \"Chibi-Robo! Zip Lash\" was announced on May 31, 2015 and released in October 2015 for the Nintendo 3DS.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004387", "title": "Kumandins", "text": "Kumandins\n\nThe Kumandins also known as the Kumandy, Kumanda, Qumandy and Qumanda are a people indigenous to Central Asia. They reside mainly in the Altai Republic of the Russian Federation.\n\nAccording to the 1926 census, 6,335 Kumandins lived within the territory of Russia. In the 2010 census, the number was only 2,892, but possibly the 1926 census included some related peoples. Some Kumandins, living on the banks of the Biya River, from the Kuu River downstream, almost to the city of Biysk, and along the lower course of the river Katun River, by 1969 were conflated with the ethnic Russian population.\n\nOmeljan Pritsak claimed that \"kuman-\" in the name of the Kumandins is identical in meaning to the names given to the Turkic people, \"Cumans\"-Kipchaks and \"Polovets\" (a Slavic term for Cumans).\n\nHowever, the (tribes) of the Kumandins have varying origin myths; L. Potapov proposed that they were originally a federation of peoples from different backgrounds: nomadic steppe pastoralists (such as the Cumans), taiga hunters (Chuvash), deer pastoralists (Nenets), and fishers (Tatars).\n\nBy the 17th century, the Kumandins lived along the river Charysh, near its confluence with the river Ob. A subsequent relocation to the Altai was driven by their unwillingness to pay \"yasak\" (financial tribute) to the Russian sovereign. N. Aristov linked the Kumandins – and the Chelkans – to the ancient Turks, \"who in the 6th-8th CC. CE created in Central Asia a powerful nomadic state, which received ... the name Turkic Kaganate\".\n\nPotapov regarded the Kumandins as being related anthropologically to the peoples of the Urals, and suggested that they were less East Asian than the Altaians proper. This subjective impression has been borne out to an extent by genetic research suggesting that most Kumandin males belong to Y-DNA haplogroups that are generally found in populations further to the west, such as R1b (although the Kumandins belong to R1b-M73 rather than R1b-M269, the latter being the subclade to which a majority of Europeans belong) and N-P43 (Dulik \"et al.\" (2012) have remarked that, in fact, Chelkans and Kumandins have N-P43 Y chromosomes very similar to ones found in the Ugric-speaking Khanty). However, a majority of mitochondrial DNA lines belonged to the North East Asian haplogroups C or D with also a large minority of west Eurasian lineages such as U5a1 (5/52), H8 (3/52), U4b1b (2/52), X2e (2/52), and T1a (1/52).\n\nSix have been identified:\n\nAn ancient Turkic legend recorded in the Chinese annal (Book of Zhou 周書, 636 CE) mentions the origin of the Göktürks' ancestors from a possession or state named \"Suǒ\" (索國; MC: *\"sak̚-kwək̚\"), located \"north of the Xiongnu country\" (which, in this case, apparently meant Mongolia).\n\nThe name of the Ton is explained as an ethnonym that reflects their economic specialization, as a word meaning \"deer\" and \"reindeer breeder\". The remote ancestors of this Kumandy Ton were reindeer breeders, reflected in Kumandy hunting legends and fairy tales, for example about milking deer (which is attributed to the Kumandy's mountain spirits). The memory about breeding and milking reindeer belongs to some remote historical ancestors of a part of Kumandy; they can be explained by participation in the Kumandy ethnogenesis of the southern Nenets tribes, who cultivated riding deer, typically used not only for transport but also for food and dress.\n\nThe Kumandins were originally hunters and animals living in the taiga were vital to the local subsistence economy.\n\nThe traditional dwellings of the Kumandins included polygonal yurts made out of bark or log and topped with a conic bark roof. Other types of dwellings also included conic yurts made out of bark or perches.\n\nTraditional Kumandin dress included short breeches, linen shirts, and single-breasted robes.\n\nMost modern Kumandins are Orthodox Christian but shamanism, Burkhanism, and Sunni Islam is also practiced by some.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004395", "title": "Telengits", "text": "Telengits\n\nTelengits or Telengut are a Turkic ethnic group primarily found in the Altai Republic, Russia. Telengits mainly live in a territory of Kosh-Agach District of the Altai Republic. They are part of a larger cultural group of Southern Altaians. These other groups include: Altai, Telengut, and Tolos.\n\nChinese chroniclers might have mentioned Telengits as 多覽葛 (Mand. \"duōlǎngé\" < MC: *\"tâ-lâm-kât\"). Telengits certainly emerged from the mixing of Kipchak Turkic tribes with Mongols. The Telengits were dominated by the Mongols from the 13th to 18th centuries and this was followed by the brief rule of the Dzungars. During Dzungar domination, the Telengits had to pay a fur tribute or yasak to the Dzungars. In 1756, the Telengits (along with other southern Altaians) submitted to the Russians.\n\nSince there are many groups that live in the Altai region, it is often difficult to distinguish between the different groups. The territorial groupings are somewhat fluid. Telengits (or Telengut) live along the Chuya River in the western Altai, and call themselves Chui-kizhi (Chuya people). Sometimes they intermix with other groups that live around the river. With this intermixing, it is often difficult to establish boundaries and distinguish the individual groups. There are no sharp distinctions among the different subgroups of the Altaians, identified as they are by the territory they occupy. This inevitably caused many problems, including how to ethnically classify them. It was the political leaders of the Ulagan district who first advocated that the Telengits be recognized as a separate indigenous group in Russian law. Before this , there was often confusion because the Telengits were classified under the Altaians. Even after the Telengits were classified as a separate group, there were still discrepancies as to what subgroups would be included under the ethnic group of the Telengits.\n\nIn 2000, Telengits were listed as part of \"Small Numbered Indigenous Peoples of the Russian Federation on the Russian and Soviet censuses\".\n\nIn 2002, they were considered their own category on the census and there were 2,398 Telengits. However, this number may be wrong because in the context of the census questions, many Telengits, 8,000 or 9,000 would consider themselves Altaians and not Telengits.\n\nIn 2004, the NGO \"Development of the Telengit People\" was established. This group is an active part in the local political area in regard to issues of Telengit land rights.\n\nMost Telengits used to be nomadic or semi-nomadic cattle herders. They commonly raised sheep, cattle, goats, and horses.\n\nTraditional Telengit dwellings included felt yurts. Modern Telengits live in wooden homes but commonly inhabit yurts during the summer months.\n\nTraditional Telengit dress was similar for both men and women. Traditional Telengit dress was composed of long sleeved shirts, breeches, and robes. Double-breasted sheepskin coats, fur hats, and high boots were also commonly worn. Married women additionally wore a sleeveless jacket over their coats.\n\nMost Telengits practice shamanism but a significant amount of Telengits profess Orthodox Christianity and smaller numbers practice Burkhanism. \n\nThe Altaians and the Telengits feel a connection to the land that they live on. They are supposed to worship their special homeland that is considered sacred. The Telengits say that if an Altaian leaves the Altai, he or she will become ill and die. This is not because of any longing or emotional distress, but because of physical separation. After they have lived on the land, they become one with it. That is why it is so severe when one is separated from their homeland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004404", "title": "Tubalar", "text": "Tubalar\n\nThe Tubalar are an ethnic group native to the Altai Republic in Russia.\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, there were 1,965 Tubalars in Russia.\n\nThe villages with the highest population of Tubalars are Artybash, Iogach, Novotroitsk, Tuloi, Tondoshka, Kebezen, Ust-Pyzha, Biyka, Yailu, Chuyka, Torochak, Paspaul, Salganda, Karakoksha, Tunzha, Krasnoselskoye, Uskuch, Uimen, and Karasuk.\n\nThe Tubalars emerged from the mixing of Turkic tribes with Ket, Samoyed, and other native Siberian groups. This was a process that began as early as the period when the Yenisei Kygryz dominated the region. The Mongols then ruled over the region and people from the 13th to 18th centuries. The Dzungars than briefly controlled the area until the Tubalars (along with other Altaians) submitted to the Russians. The Tubalars consider themselves to be distinct from the other Turkic peoples in the Altai region.\n\nThe Tubalars were originally hunters and animals living in the taiga were vital to the local subsistence economy.\n\nThe traditional dwellings of the Tubalars included polygonal yurts made out of bark or log and topped with a conic bark roof. Other types of dwellings also included conic yurts made out of bark or perches.\n\nTraditional Tubalar dress included short breeches, linen shirts, and single-breasted robes.\n\nA clan structure is still strongly prevalent among the modern Tubalars.\n\nThe sacred tree of Tubalars is the cedar, a symbol of the power, beauty and courage of taiga. The Holiday of Cedar is a celebration of this tree.\n\nMost Tubalars are Orthodox Christian but there is a significant minority that still practice shamanism. Burkhanism can also be found practiced by some Altaians in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004416", "title": "Penelope Blackmore", "text": "Penelope Blackmore\n\nPenelope \"Penny\" Blackmore (born 23 April 1984) is a retired Australian rhythmic gymnast who competed at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. Blackmore attended Korowa Anglican Girls' School in Melbourne from 1989. In 1997, her family moved to Sydney, Australia and she relocated to MLC School in Burwood, Sydney. Blackmore later attended the University of Sydney.\n\nBlackmore started rhythmic gymnastics in 1995, after it was suggested to her by a friend of the family. After mixed results from her early career, she was crowned the Australian National All-Around Champion (2nd Hoop, 2nd Clubs, 3rd Ribbon) in 2003, and ranked 57th at the 26th Gymnastics World Championships in Budapest, Hungary, affirming her then position as Australia's foremost gymnast. In 2004, she again won the Australian National Championships (2nd Hoop, 1st Ball, 2nd Clubs, 1st Ribbon), and thus was given the opportunity to qualify as a wild card entrant in the 2004 Athens Olympic Games. Blackmore's qualification round results were; Ball 19.325, Hoop 19.575, Clubs 19.600, Ribbon 14.550.\n\nPenny announced her retirement from the sport in December 2004. She currently works at General Assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004425", "title": "Harold Rumney", "text": "Harold Rumney\n\nHarold Waldmere Rumney (16 May 1907 – 16 November 1987) was an Australian rules footballer.\n\nRumney was rejected by Carlton Football Club after 15 games in two seasons and transferred to Collingwood Football Club. His arrival at Collingwood was fortuitous. He played in the quartet of premierships, 1927–1930, as well as the 1935 premiership. He left Collingwood to coach Northcote in the VFA for season 1936 but returned to Collingwood in 1937. He regularly represented Victoria and won Collingwood's best and fairest award in 1931.\n\nHe was 171 cm tall and weighed 76 kg. He played 15 games for Carlton, scoring 9 goals, and 171 games for Collingwood, scoring 28 goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004428", "title": "List of dogwood festivals", "text": "List of dogwood festivals\n\nSeveral U.S. cities and towns hold dogwood festivals. These are usually annual events coinciding with the blooming of dogwood trees in the spring:\n\n"}
{"id": "2004430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004430", "title": "Andrew McMahon", "text": "Andrew McMahon\n\nAndrew Ross McMahon (born September 3, 1982) is an American singer-songwriter. He was the vocalist, pianist and primary lyricist for the bands Something Corporate and main songwriter for Jack's Mannequin and performs solo both under his own name as well as his moniker, Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness. On April 30, 2013, he debuted his first solo work, an EP titled \"The Pop Underground\", which was followed by his debut album \"Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness\", released on October 14, 2014. His second album, \"Zombies on Broadway\", was released on February 10, 2017. He released his third album, \"Upside Down Flowers\", on November 16, 2018.\n\nMcMahon was born in Concord, Massachusetts. He briefly lived in Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey until 1991, when his family moved to Bexley, Ohio where he attended Cassingham Elementary School. McMahon's family relocated frequently due to his father's occupation in retail. McMahon recalls that while he was in fourth grade, they briefly stayed in California to support his mother's family after the loss of her brother. Following the death of his uncle, who was an artist himself, McMahon became inspired to get involved with music and began teaching himself piano soon afterward.\n\nMcMahon's family decided to settle in California shortly before he entered eighth grade. He would later describe himself as \"a pudgy, outgoing, artistic little kid who never quite fit into the California scene\". He graduated from Dana Hills High School in 2000.\n\nMcMahon started playing the piano at age 9. The following year, he began performing piano solos before he could even read music. McMahon stated, \"my mother was a good player and I started playing by ear. After a year of that, I began writing songs, and found outlets to perform them at school assemblies. Eventually, I got lessons.\"\n\nMcMahon started his first band, Left Here, with his high school friends and future Something Corporate bandmates Kevin \"Clutch\" Page on bass and Brian Ireland on drums in 1997. Even though they won a local battle of the bands competition, they soon broke up. McMahon went on to record the self-released eponymous four-track demo CD \"Andrew McMahon\" with the aid of several friends of his, including guitarist Josh Partington, whom he had met his sophomore year in high school. Joined by rhythm guitarist Reuben Hernandez (who was later replaced by William Tell), the quintet formed the piano rock band Something Corporate in 1998.\n\nMcMahon met the rest of the group in high school, and later decided on the moniker Something Corporate as a joke. Fronted by McMahon, the group recorded their self-released ten-song demo album \"Ready... Break\" in 2000, which led to a record deal with the indie record label Drive-Thru Records. Drive-Thru released the band's nationwide distributed debut EP \"Audioboxer\" the following year. McMahon's vocals, songwriting skills, and incorporation of the piano earned the album rave reviews and caught the attention of Drive-Thru's distributor MCA (now Geffen). Due to the labels' distribution deal, MCA was able to sign over Something Corporate and released their major label debut \"Leaving Through the Window\" in May 2002.\n\nThe band promoted the album by playing concerts across the United States, which included the main stage at Vans Warped Tour as well as supporting New Found Glory on their European tour. Something Corporate released their second full-length album \"North\" on Geffen Records in late 2003. As of 2004, the band is no longer under contract to any label.\n\nOn December 4, 2009, Something Corporate announced a reunion show at Bamboozle Left 2010 with an additional show later added at Bamboozle Chicago 2010. After Bamboozle, the band announced their reunion tour, which took place in August 2010.\n\nThe initial impulse behind McMahon's solo project Jack's Mannequin was \"Locked Doors\", a song he recorded in December 2003, which he felt was too different from previous Something Corporate material. He realized that, if he would ever decide to release it, it would be on a solo album rather than a Something Corporate record. The idea seemed to be off the table until, in late summer 2004, both McMahon and his bandmates were exhausted from months of touring and decided to take a break.\n\nThe first album \"Everything in Transit\" was released in August 2005. After the release and success of the first album, McMahon then proceeded to compose his second Jack's Mannequin album, \"The Glass Passenger\", which was released in September 2008. Jack's Mannequin's third and final album, \"People and Things\" was released in October 2011. He stated that this new album \"[would] probably have a bit of freeness\" to it, distancing itself from \"The Glass Passenger\".\n\nOn February 2, 2012, McMahon foreshadowed the end to Jack's Mannequin, saying, \"I foresee an end to the usage of that name. I don't know that it's doing for me what it used to, in the sense that Jack's sort of really represented a freedom from something. And a really free approach to creating things that now is certainly wrapped up in a whole lot of turmoil and tumult in a very difficult time in my life. And to acknowledge that, I certainly think at some point I'm going to have to find a way to shake that loose. And I think to some extent that might mean retiring the name.\" On November 11 and November 12 of 2012, Jack's Mannequin performed their final shows under the moniker, coinciding with the annual Dear Jack Foundation benefit. In June 2013, Live From The El Rey Theatre was released to commemorate the final shows.\n\nOn August 25, 2012, the Jack's Mannequin website redirected to andrewmcmahon.com, with McMahon deciding to put out new music under his own name. Along with the promise of new music, it was announced soon after that he would be supporting the band Fun. on their tour in early 2013, with a solo headlining tour taking place in Spring 2013. McMahon played his first two solo shows in West Hollywood at the Viper Room in early January 2013.\n\nOn April 30, 2013, McMahon released The Pop Underground EP, produced by Mark Williams and Tony Hoffer, followed by an appearance on O.A.R.'s Sounds of Summer tour extending through August. Synesthesia became the first single launching McMahon's solo career, with an official music video that premiered on June 13, 2013.\n\nIn January 2013, McMahon was listed as one of the new songwriters for the second season of the NBC series Smash, signifying his first time writing for musical theatre. Showrunner Joshua Safran called McMahon the \"wildcard of the bunch\" of new songwriters hired for the second season, and was hired because Safran was a fan of his previous bands.\n\nMcMahon contributed three songs to the second season, I Heard Your Voice In a Dream, Reach for Me, and I'm Not Sorry. I Heard Your Voice In a Dream was met with critical acclaim, being nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Music and Lyrics and has sold 10,000 digital downloads as of April 3, 2013.\n\nOn October 15, 2013, New York City venue 54 Below announced plans to stage Smash's fictional musical \"Hit List\" in concert format. On December 8 and 9, 2013, \"Hit List\" was performed for a three-show run, with McMahon in attendance. All three of his songs penned for Smash were performed, including his Jack's Mannequin track 'Swim' performed by Andy Mientus, on which McMahon played piano.\n\nOn July 11, 2014, McMahon posted on his website that the next progression in his musical career would be to tour and release music under the moniker of Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness. On July 16, 2014, he released his first single under the new project, entitled \"Cecilia and the Satellite\", named after his newborn daughter. During the summer of 2014, McMahon toured with Matt Nathanson and Gavin DeGraw in preparation for his first solo LP, \"Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness\", released October 14, 2014, and coinciding with a full North American headlining tour. McMahon performed on the Weezer & Panic! at the Disco Summer Tour 2016 in support of Weezer and Panic! at the Disco. On September 8, 2016, McMahon released a new single, \"Fire Escape\". On January 6, 2017, McMahon released a new single, \"So Close\".\n\nHis second solo album, \"Zombies on Broadway\", was released on February 10, 2017. His third, \"Upside Down Flowers\" was released on November 16, 2018. He embarked on a North American tour in early 2019 in support of the album.\n\nOn May 27, 2005 (three months before the release of Jack's Mannequin's debut album \"Everything in Transit\"), McMahon was forced to cancel all of his upcoming concerts. After a medical examination in connection with a relentless case of laryngitis, McMahon was admitted to a hospital in New York City, where he was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia on June 1, 2005, the same day he finished recording \"Everything in Transit\". Since the illness was diagnosed in its early stages, McMahon's doctors had high hopes for a full recovery.\n\nOver the following couple of months, McMahon received various types of treatment, all the while updating his blog to keep his fans informed on the progress of his condition. August 23, 2005 marked a very significant date for him for two reasons: it was the day his album \"Everything in Transit\" was released, debuting at #37 on the \"Billboard\" 200 with over 22,000 copies scanned within its first week, as well as the day he received a stem cell transplant, with his sister Katie McMahon serving as the donor.\n\nOn December 2, 2005, McMahon celebrated the 100-day anniversary of his stem cell transplant by playing his first concert in six months: a private invite-only show in a small venue in Los Angeles, California. His first public appearance followed ten days later at \"Gimme Shelter '05\", an acoustic cancer benefit concert at the Roxy in Los Angeles, California. Following these shows, Maverick Records finally started a promotion campaign for \"Everything in Transit\", including TV appearances by McMahon on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", \"One Tree Hill\" (in the episode \"Just Watch the Fireworks\"), \"Last Call with Carson Daly\", \"Steven's Untitled Rock Show\", and \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\", as well as a second music video for \"The Mixed Tape\", which hit #1 on VH1's \"VSpot Top 20 Countdown\" on June 9, 2006.\n\nIn July 2006, McMahon founded a non-profit charity, entitled The Dear Jack Foundation, to raise funds for cancer research. The organization's primary beneficiaries are the Pediatric Cancer Research Foundation, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society and the regents of the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nA documentary entitled \"Dear Jack\" was released on October 8, 2009, on DVD by Warner Bros, and was shown at theatrical screenings in New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles. The film, which chronicles McMahon's struggle with leukemia, features self-recorded footage in the hospital and is narrated by his friend Tommy Lee. The documentary was directed by Corey Moss and Josh Morrisroe, two former MTV News producers who covered McMahon's story for the channel, although much of the intensely personal footage was shot by McMahon himself.\n\nMcMahon married his longtime girlfriend, Kelly Hansch, in December 2006. Their daughter, Cecilia, was born in 2014.\n\nIn 2014 after the announcement of their second annual Light the Night walk, The Dear Jack Foundation announced that over eight years they raised a half a million dollars for The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004434", "title": "Soyot", "text": "Soyot\n\nThe Soyot people live mainly in the Oka region in the Okinsky District in the Republic of Buryatia, Russia. According to the 2010 census, there were 3,608 Soyots in Russia. Their extinct language was of a Turkic type and basically similar to the Tuvans. Their language has been reconstructed and a textbook has been published. The language is currently taught in some schools in Oka. The Oka River, the largest river flowing down from the Western Sayans into the Angara is called the Ok-hem meaning \"an arrow-river\" by the Soyots of the Oka River basin.\n\nThey live dispersed among the Buryats and now speak the Buryat language.\n\nAccording to Larisa R. Pavlinskaya, a Russian ethnographer based in St. Petersburg, Russia, \"The ancestors of the Soyots (and of the closely related Tofa, Tozhu, and Dukha) were proto-Samoyedic hunter-gatherers who arrived in the Eastern Sayan region from Western Siberia at the end of the third millennium BC and the beginning of the second millennium BC.\"\n\nIn 1726 Tunka Valley Buryats spoke of a people who self-identified as Soyot but who the Buryats called Kosogol Urianghai. At that time the Soyot herded reindeer on the upper Irkut River, a river in the Buryat Republic and Irkutsk Oblast of Russia to Lake Khövsgöl, Mongolia. Approximately 350–400 years ago, the Soyot people moved to Buryatia from the area of Khovsgol Lake. The traditional lifestyle of the Soyot people, like others in the Taiga group, was characterized by reindeer-breeding and hunting but by 2009 most people were living in villages.\n\nIn 1940 the Okinsky Region was designated as an aimag and officially recognized all residents of the Okinsky region as Buryat. Soyots lost their official identity as an ethnic group until 2000.\n\nBernhard Eduardovich Petri, (1884-1937) Professor of ethnology at Irkutsk University, member of the British Anthropological Society, the USSR State Academy of the History of Material Culture, and full member of the American Anthropological Association undertook research with the indigenous peoples of Siberia. In 1926 Petri led the first anthropological expedition into the Soyot reindeer-herding region. Petri described a difficult period in Russian history claiming that Soyot reindeer herding was a \"dying branch of the economy.\" \"After the civil war, Petri was involved in \"planning changes in the economic lives of minority peoples of the greater Altai-Sayan and Buryatia regions, including the nomadic reindeer-breeding Tungus (Evenki) and the Soyot and Tofalar.\" He was wrongfully accused of \"espionage for the British and German intelligence services, and of anti-Soviet activity, specifically establishing contacts with nationalistic representatives of the Buryat people, so-called Pan-Mongols\" and executed in Irkutsk in 1937. Pavlinskaya argued that \"later research and data collected from Soyot elders show that the herding tradition easily overcame the period's difficulties and endured until the middle of the 20th century, when the government interfered.\"\n\nSev'yan I. Vainshtein (1926–2008), a Russian ethnographer, archaeologist, historian and explorer of Siberian and Central Asian peoples and professor at the Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow, undertook expeditions to study reindeer-herders including the Soyot and published a number of works on the subject. Vainshtein argued that Sayan reindeer herding \"is the oldest form of reindeer herding and is associated with the earliest domestication of the reindeer by the Samoyedic taiga population of the Sayan Mountains at the turn of the first millenium [sic] A.D...The Sayan region was apparently the origin of the economic and cultural complex of reindeer hunters-herdsmen that we now see among the various Evenki groups and the peoples of the Sayan area.\" The Sayan ethnic groups still live almost exclusively in the area of the Eastern Sayan mountains.\n\nIn 2000 reindeer peoples of Mongolia and Russia were working on collaborative efforts to rebuild reindeer-herding.\n\nPlumley suggested that the Soyot of Buryatia's Okinsky Region, the Tofalar of Irkutsk Oblast, the Tozhu Tuvans of the Republic of Tuva in Russia, and the Dukha of Mongolia's Hovsgol Province, who are \"cultures of reindeer-habitat\" in Central Asia may well \"have traded, inter-married and related across the breadth and width of the Sayans.\"\n\n During the period of collectivization in the Soviet Union, enforced under Stalin between 1928 and 1940, the Soyot and other Siberian inhabitants were forced into a settled way of life with socialistic enterprises replacing reindeer husbandry. The Soyots were moved to Sorok, Khurga, Bokson and Orlik, the administrative center of Okinsky District. Many were moved to cattle-breeding farms and they switched to Buryat-style husbandry.\n\n Oka River is a tributary of the Angara River. In the early 1920s, Dr. Ferdinand Ossendowski, a scientist and writer, traveled through the traditional lands of the Soyot during the Russian Revolution and published a book entitled \"Beasts, Men and Gods\" in which he described his experiences. In 1920 Ossendowski narrowly escaped being arrested by the Red Army who surrounded his house in the Siberian town of Krasnoyarsk, on the shores of the River Yenisei. He fled into the forest and lived for a while in the taiga along the shores of the Yenisei River. He and his companions followed the Tuba and Amyl Rivers to the Sayan mountains, where Urianhai, the northern part of Mongolia, begins. Urianhai is on the head waters of the Yenisei.\n\nThe Soyots helped Ossendowski and his companions escape. He appreciated their hospitality.\n\nWhile in Urianhai, Ossendowski met Ta Lama, Prince of Soldjak and High Priest of the Buddhist Temple whose wife had red eyes. After he healed her eyes, the Prince \"ordered one of the Soyots to guide their party to the Kosogol\" Lake Khövsgöl. This was near the Tannu-Ola mountains.\n\nTheir Soyot guide took them through the Ulaan Taiga and the Darkhad Valley where they met Soyot herdmen rapidly driving their cattle over the Darkhat plain toward the northwest into Orgarkha Ola. They communicated to us very unpleasant news. They were fleeing the Bolsheviki from the Irkutsk district who had crossed the Mongolian border and captured the Russian colony at Khathyl on the southern shore of Lake Kosogol and were continuing their advance.\n\nA Norwegian scientific expedition, led by Orjan Olsen, H. Printz, Anders K. Olsen, Fritz Jensen (Norway) and J. E. Gustschin (Russia) in the early 1910s provides information on the customs of these people before they were completely assimilated to the Buryats. The ethnographic data and photographs collected by these scientists were published by Olsen in the book: \"Et primitivt folk de mongolske rennomader\" (Cappeln, 1915). There is a Spanish edition: \"Los soyotos, un pueblo primitivo. Nómadas mongoles pastores de renos\" (Calpe, Madrid, 1921). With all its shortcomings (the book is flawed with the eurocentrism of its age), it is probably the best study of these isolated people before they adapted to the larger Buryat culture. It includes a short list of Soyot words, several dozen photographs and a fortunate preserved account of a Soyot shamanic tale of divination, along with a detailed account of both shamanic and lamaistic rituals among these people (both Buddhism and native animism syncretically coexisted at the time of the expedition).\n\nAccording to Valentin I. Rassadin, the Soyots spoke their own language fluently in the 1920s.(Rassadin 1996:10-22). Many Soyot married into the larger culture, the Buryats. By 1996 the language was almost lost (Rassadin 1996:10-22).\n\nAmong the various Soyot cultures, the central Soyot groups, keeping cattle and horses, show Khalkha-Mongolian phenomena in their shamanism, the shamanism of Western Soyots, living on the steppe, is similar to that of Altai Turkic peoples. A shaman story narrates contacts between Soyots and Abakan Turkic peoples in a mythical form. The Karagas and Eastern (reindeer-breeding, mountain-inhabiting) Soyots have many similarities in their culture and shamanism. It was these two cultures who presented some ethnic features, phenomena lacking among neighboring Turkic peoples In a Soyot shamanic song, sounds of bird and wolf are imitated to represent helping spirits of the shaman. According to Rassadin, Buryat Buddhist lamas attempted to put an end to Soyot shamanism (Rassadin 1996:10-22).\n\nIn 2000 People's Khural (Grand Assembly) of the Republic of Buryatia changed the name of the Okinsky Region to the Soyot National Aimag at the request of government of the Okinsky Region. In 2000 the Soyot succeeded in restoring their name and identity as one of the officially recognized Indigenous small-numbered peoples of the North, Siberia and the Far East by decree of the Russian Government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004436", "title": "List of high schools in Mississippi", "text": "List of high schools in Mississippi\n\nThis is a list of high schools in the state of Mississippi.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004437", "title": "The Altamont Enterprise", "text": "The Altamont Enterprise\n\nThe Altamont Enterprise & Albany County Post is a weekly newspaper in Albany County, New York, founded in 1884. It covers the towns of Guilderland, New Scotland, Berne, Knox, Westerlo, and Rensselaerville, as well as the villages of Altamont and Voorheesville. It is the newspaper of record for the towns and villages it covers. The Altamont Enterprise has won numerous awards from the New York Press Association, along with consistently ranking as one of the top 10 newspapers in New York State. It has a circulation of 6,679. It is owned by former reporter and current editor Melissa Hale-Spencer and Marcello Iaia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004441", "title": "Benjamin Glazer", "text": "Benjamin Glazer\n\nBenjamin Glazer (May 7, 1887 – March 18, 1956) was a screenwriter, producer, foley artist, and director of American films from the 1920s through the 1950s. He made the first translation of Ferenc Molnár's play \"Liliom\" into English in 1921. His translation was used in the original Broadway production, in the 1930 film version, and in every production in English of the play until recently. It also served as the basis for the libretto for Rodgers and Hammerstein's \"Carousel\", as well as for Phoebe and Henry Ephron's screenplay for the 1956 film version of the classic musical.\n\nGlazer was born in Belfast, Ireland, into a Hungarian Jewish family. After moving to the United States, he studied at the University of Pennsylvania Law School and passed the bar exam to become a lawyer in 1906.\n\nGlazer was one of the founding members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. He is best known for his Oscar-winning writing for \"7th Heaven\" (1927) and \"Arise, My Love\" (1941). Additional screenwriting credits include \"The Merry Widow\", \"Flesh and the Devil\", \"Mata Hari\", \"A Farewell to Arms\", \"We're Not Dressing\", and \"Tortilla Flat\".\n\nGlazer also directed one film, the 1948 \"Song of My Heart\", a highly fictionalized biography of Tchaikovsky.\n\nGlazer was married to actress Sharon Lynn. He died of circulatory failure in Hollywood, at the age of 68.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004444", "title": "Universal Combat", "text": "Universal Combat\n\nUniversal Combat (sometimes abbreviated to UC) is the second video game series by the developer 3000AD and is the successor of the \"Battlecruiser\" series of games.\n\n\"Universal Combat\" offers the player a very large game world to play in using varying forms of transport and combat. The player can pilot spaceships of varying sizes, as well as land on and explore planets. On land, they can drive varying land craft. The size of the playing area is seen as one of the game's main attractions, where traveling from place to place can take considerable quantities of time as there is no time compression. The game has a high learning curve that is daunting for newer players.\n\nEvery crew member aboard the player ship is tracked in location, hunger, AI level, and fatigue. Every system on board the player's starship can be monitored and controlled. In order for the player to fly a shuttle, they must first take time to walk through the ship to the shuttle bay, forcing the player to plan ahead for tactical encounters.\n\nThe project began as early as 2000 when Derek Smart announced that he had licensed Croteam's Serious Sam game engine for \"Project ABC\", for \"After Battlecruiser\", as replacement for the Battlecruiser Tactical Engagement add-on module intended for Battlecruiser Millennium. The game's scheduled release date was in late 2001, developed for PC and Xbox.\n\nDevelopment started in late 2001 as \"Battlecruiser Generations\", the 5th game in the Battlecruiser series. As part of its design, the upcoming game was intended to make use of newer technology. With a new publisher, DreamCatcher Games, on board and offering more oversight, the direction of the game changed towards more action-based gameplay than the Battlecruiser series had previously been known for. The changes warranted a new title, and the name was changed to \"Universal Combat\".\n\n\"Universal Combat\" was not ready in time for the 2003 holidays, despite expectations. It was shipped in early 2004 by the publisher, DreamCatcher Interactive, at half of the originally announced price. Smart pursued legal action against his publisher. A cease and desist letter was issued on behalf of 3000AD to DreamCatcher alleging, among other things, that the price reduction was \"clearly calculated to inflict economic harm on 3000AD\". In the hearing, DreamCatcher Interactive claimed that the game's quality did not justify a midrange price, citing the graphics as an example of the overall quality of the game. A hearing was held to determine if DreamCatcher would be prevented from shipping the title at the reduced price. The presiding judge denied the injunction, stating that 3000AD \"made bold but unsupported assertions regarding the irreparable harm to it\", allowing DreamCatcher Interactive to ship the game and 3000AD to proceed with their lawsuit. The matter was later settled out of court under undisclosed terms.\n\nIn 2005, 3000AD, Inc. also announced termination of DreamCatcher's publishing right for Universal Combat, but the deal expired on 18 December 2007.\n\nWhen 3000AD announced they would release the game as freeware, the company reported it had told DreamCatcher to initiate a DIF (Destroy In Field) order to its various retailers so that the remaining copies can no longer be sold, and any unsold copies would be filed as losses in Q4 2007.\n\nAfter terminating a publishing deal with DreamCatcher Interactive, Smart released an updated release titled \"Universal Combat Gold\". Starting with this release, Smart has made a policy of releasing games through online resellers.\n\nIn 2005, Turner Broadcasting licensed both Battlecruiser Millennium and Universal Combat Gold for their games-on-demand system, GameTap.\n\nFull localization supports Russian, French, Italian, German, and Spanish languages. Additional custom language interfaces are possible.\n\"Universal Combat - A World Apart\" is a sequel to the original \"Universal Combat\" games.\n\nThe game was originally announced on 18 November 2004 as an expansion pack for \"Universal Combat\", which would feature newer and more advanced technologies found in the then-upcoming \"Universal Combat - Hostile Intent\" and \"Galactic Command Online\".\n\nDreamCatcher Interactive originally announced the publication of \"Universal Combat: A World Apart\" in May 2005, but several issues with the publisher (DreamCatcher) held up the boxed retail release of the title, and led to the termination of the publishing agreement. As a result, the publishing rights reverted to 3000AD Inc.\n\nAs a result of the termination, the boxed version of the game was not released, and the developer also removed DreamCatcher-created content from the retail game.\n\nAlthough the game had switched to DirectX 9, graphics improvements only began in this edition. The audio engine was also based on FMOD, starting in the v1.00.11 patch.\n\nA compilation release that includes all previous Universal Combat games, plus all outstanding updates and fixes.\n\nTerrain rendering engine now uses improved texturing technologies such as high resolution textures support, reflections, volumetric clouds. Multiplayer and audio engine are also improved.\n\nNew scenarios include:\n\nTotal scenarios now 58 Instant Action scenarios, 5 Campaign Mode scenarios ('A Fragile Hope', playable from the perspective of the Commander career; 'Way Of The Titans', playable from the perspective of the Commander and Elite Force Pilot careers; 'A World Apart : Episode 1', playable from the perspective of the Commander and Elite Force Pilot careers; 'A World Apart Episode 2', playable from the perspective of the Commander and Elite Force Pilot careers).\n\nIn addition to the standalone title, a version exists as expansion pack to the \"Universal Combat - A World Apart\" game, which only works with Direct2Drive version of the game.\nIn December 2006, Smart announced a collectors' edition consisting of his \"Battlecruiser\" and \"Universal Combat\" games.\n\nThe Collectors' Edition consists of a compilation that includes all previously published \"Universal Combat\" and \"Battlecruiser\" games running on improved versions of the \"Universal Combat Special Edition\" game engine. Unlike previous releases, it is distributed via DVD, and Windows 98 and 2000 are no longer supported.\n\n\"Universal Combat Collectors' Edition v2.0\" is an updated version \"Collectors' Edition\", that uses game engine from Galactic Command: Echo Squad Second Edition. Multiplayer support is no longer functional. A free upgrade to v2.0 was available for existing owners of \"Collectors' Edition\" until 1 January 2010.\n\n\nThe game was reviewed and rated in several print and online game magazines. Metacritic gave it an aggregate review score of 54%. GameSpot scored it 59% and said \"This wildly ambitious simulation is torpedoed by an almost incomprehensible interface, the absence of a tutorial, numerous bugs, and many fit and finish issues, including dated production values.\" \n\"Universal Combat\" was criticized for an unfamiliar interface and voluminous documentation (a manual of over 100 pages, 200-page downloadable appendix, and 80-page downloadable tutorial).\n\n\"Universal Combat - A World Apart\" was rated 54% by GameRankings and 48% by Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004447", "title": "Rylands v Fletcher", "text": "Rylands v Fletcher\n\nThis doctrine was further developed by English courts, and made an immediate impact on the law. Prior to \"Rylands\", English courts had not based their decisions in similar cases on strict liability, and had focused on the intention behind the actions rather than the nature of the actions themselves. In contrast, \"Rylands\" imposed strict liability on those found detrimental in such a fashion without having to prove a duty of care or negligence, which brought the law into line with that relating to public reservoirs and marked a significant doctrinal shift. Academics have criticised it, however, both for the economic damage such a doctrine could cause and for its limited applicability.\n\nThe tort of \"Rylands v Fletcher\" has been disclaimed in various jurisdictions, including Scotland, where it was described as \"a heresy that ought to be extirpated\", and Australia, where the High Court chose to destroy the doctrine in \"Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd\". Within England and Wales, however, \"Rylands\" remains valid law, although the decisions in \"Cambridge Water Co Ltd v Eastern Counties Leather plc\" and \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\" make it clear that it is no longer an independent tort, but instead a sub-tort of nuisance.\n\nIn 1860, Rylands paid contractors to build a reservoir on his land, intending that it should supply the Ainsworth Mill with water. Rylands played no active role in the construction, instead contracting out to a competent engineer. While building it, the contractors discovered a series of old coal shafts and passages under the land filled loosely with soil and debris, which joined up with Thomas Fletcher's adjoining mine. Rather than blocking these shafts up, the contractors left them. On 11 December 1860, shortly after being filled for the first time, Rylands' reservoir burst and flooded Fletcher's mine, the Red House Colliery, causing £937 worth of damage. Fletcher pumped the water out, but on 17 April 1861 his pump burst, and the mine again began to flood. At this point a mines inspector was brought in, and the sunken coal shafts were discovered. Fletcher brought a claim against Rylands and the landowner, Jehu Horrocks, on 4 November 1861.\n\nThe tort of trespass was inapplicable, as the flooding was deemed not to be \"direct and immediate\"; the tort of nuisance was rejected as this was a one-off event. The case was first heard by Mellor J and a special jury in September 1862 at the Liverpool Assizes; a court order led to an arbitrator from the Exchequer of Pleas being appointed in December 1864. The arbitrator decided that the contractors were liable for negligence, since they had known about the old mine shafts. Rylands, however, had no way of knowing about the mine shafts and so was not.\n\nThe case then went to the Exchequer of Pleas, where it was heard between 3 and 5 May 1865. It was heard on two points: first, whether the defendants were liable for the actions of the contractors and secondly, whether the defendants were liable for the damage regardless of their lack of negligence. They decided for the first point that the defendants were not liable, but were split on the second point. Channell B recused. Pollock CB and Martin B held that the defendants were not liable, as since a negligence claim could not be brought there was no valid case. Bramwell B, dissenting, argued that the claimant had the right to enjoy his land free of interference from water, and that as a result the defendant was guilty of trespass and the commissioning of a nuisance. He stated that \"the general law, wholly independent of contract\" should be that the defendants were liable, \"on the plain ground that the defendants have caused water to flow into the [claimant]'s mines, which but for their act would not have gone there...\"\n\nFletcher appealed to the Exchequer Chamber of six judges. The prior decision was overturned in his favour. Blackburn J spoke on behalf of all the judges and said that:\n\nBlackburn J's opinion relied on the liability for damages to land available through the tort of chattel trespass and the tort of nuisance, as well as the \"in scienter action\", injury by a domesticated animal known to have a disposition to injure. Rylands appealed.\n\nThe House of Lords dismissed the appeal and agreed with the determination for Fletcher. Lord Cairns, in speaking for the House of Lords, stated their agreement of the rule stated above by Justice Blackburn, but added a further limitation on liability, which is that the land from which the escape occurs must have been modified in a way which would be considered non-natural, unusual or inappropriate. The case was then heard by the House of Lords on 6 and 7 July 1868, with a judgment delivered on 17 July. Oddly the court consisted of only two judges, Lord Cairns and Lord Cranworth; Lord Colonsay failed to attend. The eventual judgment confirmed Blackburn's decision and general principle, adding a requirement that the use be \"non-natural\". The judgment of Lord Cairns LC was as follows.\n\nThe 'enjoyment of land' was primary in the reasons of Lord Cairns (above). This foundation stone is a recurring theme in the common law throughout the ages, to wit: \"It has been well said, that the use of the law consists, first, in preserving men's persons from death and violence; next, in securing to them the free enjoyment of their property.\" Tindal, CJ: Charge to the Grand Jury at Bristol on the occasion of the 1832 riots over the rejection in the House of Lords of the Reform Bill.\n\nEarly English common law had, in many instances, imposed liability on those who had caused harm regardless of wrongful intent or negligence. Trespass was considered a remedy for all tortious wrongs, and sometimes used as a synonym for torts generally. Over the centuries, however, judges focused more on the intent and negligence behind the actions than the nature of the actions themselves, leading to the development of negligence and nuisance and the further development of trespass. At the time of \"Rylands\", the previous case relied upon was \"Vaughan v Menlove\", decided in the Court of Common Pleas in 1837. The case had almost identical facts to \"Rylands\", but strict liability was never even considered. The case is instead thought of as one of the best attempts of early 19th century English judges to build up the law of negligence. The outcome of \"Rylands\" meant that judges would again impose strict liability on defendants who accumulated dangerous things on their land without any need to prove negligence or wrongful intent. The decision won support for bringing the law relating to private reservoirs up to standard with the law relating to public reservoirs, which contained similar statutory provisions thanks to a pair of private Acts of Parliament passed in 1853 and 1864.\n\nThe decision in \"Rylands\" initially faced little criticism within England and Wales, although many American scholars and judges of the time felt that judgment was a poor one. Doe CJ of the New Hampshire Supreme Court wrote that it \"put a clog upon natural and reasonably necessary uses of matter and tend to embarrass and obstruct much of the work which it seems to be a man's duty carefully to do\". The American interpretation was based primarily on the idea that it would cause economic harm. Further American criticism is based on the idea that it is poor law. Firstly, they argue, it is not trespass, since the damage is not direct, and secondly, it is not a nuisance, because there is no continuous action. Glofcheski, writing in the \"Hong Kong Law Journal\", notes that \"the doctrine has not flourished... a tort imposing strict liability should be closely interpreted and circumspectly applied\". It has been argued that the decision was never entirely accepted by the judiciary as a whole, and that it is difficult to justify. This is for two reasons; firstly, it is a case of very limited applicability, and it has been suggested that it be folded into a general principle of strict liability for \"ultra-hazardous\" activities. Secondly, subsequent case law in England and Wales, particularly in \"Rickards v Lothian\", has undermined the \"non-natural use\" element by introducing a cost/benefit analysis which severely limits the decision's usefulness.\n\nThe first article in the 1960 Canadian Bill of Rights states that \"the right of the individual to life, liberty, security of the person and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except by due process of law\" is recognised. However it is difficult to adjudicate on this Bill, especially as the provinces have priority over property rights. \nA difficulty is encountered with the definition of \"property\", as remarked by Johansen, which may well be the reason why the matter remains for interpretation by precedent. The 1974 test case for the Bill of Rights, Attorney General of Canada v. Lavell, provided an impetus for the 1982 Charter of Rights, which specifically excludes the \"enjoyment of property\" for reasons described in the Constitutional history of Canada page. Fridman on Torts in Canada has helpful material.\n\nIn Ontario, a common law province, \"Rylands\" was upheld by a lower court in Smith v. Inco Ltd. a case alleging that a factory in Port Colborne, Ontario had contaminated adjacent lands with nickel. A subsequent Ontario Court of Appeal ruling in 2010 found that the plaintiff had not provided sufficient evidence of economic harm, raising the legal burden of proof but not invalidating \"Rylands\" as precedent law. However, it has been said that the Court of Appeal erred in law in their adjudication over the words \"non-natural\". In April 2012, the Supreme Court of Canada chose not to hear the appeal.\n\nMineral rights in the subsurface seem to be preferred over the landowner's rights by the Mineral Tenure Act or the Petroleum and Natural Gas Act in British Columbia (also a common law province) so that recourse to Rylands is quite limited, as case law has developed over liability \"to compensate the owner of a surface area for loss or damage caused by the entry, occupation or use of that area\" (MTA) and \"compensation for nuisance and disturbance from the entry, occupation or use\" (PNGA). The compensation for \"entry, use and occupation of the Property\" seems not to \"exceed the entire [taxable] value of the land\" as written in the registry. This means in effect that the relocation costs (of, say, a farming operation, or an abode) or emotional damage are likely not payable by the expropriator. Even municipalities cannot exclude miners. The powers of an arbitrator include compensation for land, timber and time, but expressly do not include watershed, health and welfare, or lost cattle. Miners avoid environmental review; the province has no discretion to refuse mineral leases; miners need not notify landowners of transactions; the province can exempt mines from review when mining commences; and landowners do not have rights to refuse to negotiate.\n\nThe impact of Rylands v Fletcher in Quebec law, which is based for historical reasons on the civil code, was evaluated by the Supreme Court of Canada in the 1916 case of Vandry et al. v. Quebec Railway, Light, Heat and Power Co. The SCC found that a section in the civil code had ample scope to support the liability of the Quebec Power Co.\n\nThe rule in \"Rylands v Fletcher\" gives support to \"Ernst v. EnCana Corporation, 2013 ABQB 537\".\n\nThe party that can be sued in a \"Rylands\" claim is an owner or occupier of land, along with anyone who stores or collects the dangerous material, as in \"Rainham Chemical Works Ltd v Belvedere Fish Guano Co Ltd\". The party suing was initially one with an interest in land, but \"Perry v Kendricks Transport Ltd\" confirmed that an interest in land was not necessary to bring a claim. Historically, personal injury claims have been allowed, as in \"Hale v Jennings\". More recent cases, however, such as the House of Lords decision in \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\", have confirmed that \"Rylands\" is \"a remedy for damage to land or interests in land. It must...follow that damages for personal injuries are not recoverable under the rule\". \n\nIn \"Cambridge Water\" Lord Goff opined that the rule in \"Rylands\" should not further be developed, and that rather than being an independent tort it should be instead considered a sub-tort of nuisance. Statutory provisions, such as the Environmental Protection Act 1990, were a more modern and appropriate way of addressing environmental problems which would previously have been covered by \"Rylands\". Subsequently, \"Transco\" disapproved of the Australian decision in \"Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd\" to absorb \"Rylands\" into the general law of negligence, deciding that \"Rylands\" should continue to exist but, as Lord Bingham said, as a \"sub-species of nuisance...while insisting upon its essential nature and purpose; and...restate it so as to achieve as much certainty and clarity as is attainable\". It is now a sub-tort, rather than an independent tort; they have confirmed that it will be allowed to remain.\n\nDonal Nolan has argued that to consider \"Rylands\" as part of private nuisance is unsound. Private nuisance requires the claimant to have an interest in land, while \"Rylands\" does not; although exceptions to this rule have occasionally been made in private nuisance, in \"Hunter v Canary Wharf Ltd\", the House of Lords ruled that to make exceptions would transform nuisance from a tort against land to a tort against the person, and should not be permitted. John Murphy, Professor of Common Law at the University of Manchester, agrees with Nolan, and makes the additional point that nuisance is focused on a loss of enjoyment to land, not physical damage as \"Rylands\" is. It has also been concerned that the reasonable use test, which appears in nuisance, is not applicable to cases brought under \"Rylands\".\n\nThe first requirement under \"Rylands\" is that the defendant \"for his own purposes brings onto land and collects and keeps there\". In \"Rylands\", this was the keeping of water in a reservoir; other cases in England and Wales have illustrated what sort of material is considered. In \"British Celanese v AH Hunt\", the accumulation was of metal foil strips. \"For his own purpose\" is not understood to be \"for his benefit\", although that was what Blackburn was referring to at the time; in \"Smeaton v Ilford Corp\", \"Rylands\" was held to apply to a local authority accumulating sewage on its land, although there was no benefit to the local authority from doing this.\n\nThe next element of \"Rylands\" is that the thing be something \"likely to do mischief if it escapes\". Before \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\" this did not have to be a dangerous item (see below); the risk was instead in its behaviour if it escapes. In \"Rylands\" the \"thing\" was water. Other examples are fire, as in \"Jones v Festiniog Railway\", gas, as in \"Batchellor v Tunbridge Wells Gas Co\", fumes, as in \"West v Bristol Tramways Co\", and electricity, as in \"Hillier v Air Ministry\". The extent of the \"thing\"'s accumulation can also be considered, as in \"Mason v Levy\", where it was not just the type of thing kept but the sheer amount which created the danger. It is essential for a \"Rylands\" claim that there be an escape of a dangerous thing \"from a place where the defendant has occupation of or control over land to a place which is outside his occupation or control\". In \"Read v J Lyons & Co Ltd\", an explosion in a munitions factory killed an inspector on the property. \"Rylands\" was held not to apply, because there was no escape. The dangerous thing that escapes does not always have to be the thing which was accumulated, but there must be a causal link. In \"Miles v Forest Rock Granite Co (Leicestershire) Ltd\", explosives stored on the defendant's land led to the escape of rocks in a blast, and the defendant was found liable.\n\nIn \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\", Lord Bingham stated \"obiter\" that \"I do not think the mischief or danger test should be at all easily satisfied. It must be shown that the defendant has done something which he recognised, or judged by the standards appropriate at the relevant place and time, he ought reasonably to have recognised, as giving rise to an exceptionally high risk of danger or mischief if there should be an escape, however unlikely an escape may have been thought to be.\"\n\nThe requirement of \"non-natural use\", which was created when the case went to the House of Lords, was described by Lord Moulton, in \"Rickards v Lothian\", as \"some special use bringing with it increased danger to others\". Because the idea of something being \"non-natural\" is a subjective one, the interpretation of this principle has varied over the years. In \"Musgrove v Pandelis\", a car filled with petrol was considered \"non-natural\", while in \"Rainham Chemical Works Ltd v Belvedere Fish Guano Co Ltd\", so was the operation of a munitions factory during war-time. There is no single concrete test to define what is \"non-natural\", for reasons given by Lord Bingham in \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\"; \"[non-natural use] is not a test to be inflexibly applied: a use may be extraordinary and unusual at one time or in one place but not so at another time or in another place...I also doubt whether a test of reasonable user is helpful, since a user may well be quite out of the ordinary but not unreasonable\"...\n\nThere are several defences in England and Wales to a claim under \"Rylands v Fletcher\"; act of an unknown third party, contributory negligence, consent and statutory authority. An act of an unknown third party will absolve the defendant of liability, as in \"Perry v Kendricks Transport Ltd\". In \"Northwestern Utilities Ltd v London Guarantee and Accident Co Ltd\", the principle was established that if a claimant knows of the unknown third party and their actions, the defendant is additionally likely to be able to deny liability. As \"Rylands\" requires strict liability, any contributory negligence voids most of the claim. Initially it was sufficient to offset the case itself; with the Law Reform (Contributory Negligence) Act 1945, courts instead apportion damages, taking into account how much of the harm was contributed by the claimant. Nevertheless, contributory negligence is still a viable partial defence to a \"Rylands\" claim. Other valid defences are where the claimant has consented, expressly or impliedly, to the accumulation of the \"thing\", and where there is statutory authority for the accumulation.\n\nThe principles of \"Rylands v Fletcher\" were initially applied in Scots law, first in the case of \"Mackintosh v Mackintosh\", where a fire spreading from the defendant's land to the claimant's land caused property damage. Scots lawyers and judges applied \"Rylands\" differently from their English counterparts, however. While the rule is interpreted in England and Wales as being distinct from negligence and the rules of duty of care and liability applied there, the principle in Scotland was that \"negligence is still the ground of liability. The only difference is that in such cases the proprietor is doing something upon his property which is in its nature dangerous and not necessary (or usual?) in the ordinary management of the particular kind of property, and he is therefore bound to observe a higher degree of diligence to prevent injury to his neighbour\". The use of \"Rylands\" in Scots law, which was started in \"Mackintosh\", finally came to an end in \"RHM Bakeries v Strathclyde Regional Council\". Lord Fraser, as part of his judgment, stated that the idea of strict liability that was brought into play by \"Rylands\" was not a part of Scots law, and the idea that it ever had been valid was \"a heresy that ought to be extirpated\".\n\nWithin the United States, there are many situations in which strict liability is applied to actions, and \"Rylands\" is commonly cited as the origin of that rule (particularly where strict liability is based on the defendant's \"ultrahazardous activity\"); it was first applied in \"Ball v. Nye\", by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. The Supreme Court of Minnesota also adopted it in \"Cahill v. Eastman\", while the highest courts of New York, New Hampshire and New Jersey all rejected the principle, in \"Losee v. Buchanan\", \"Brown v. Collins\", and \"Marshall v. Welwood\" respectively. The Supreme Court of New Jersey, however, reversed \"Welwood\" in 1983 in \"Department of Environmental Protection v. Ventron Corp\". Many courts in the United States have attempted to use \"Rylands\" to justify absolute liability, which it was never intended to do; while absolute liability is where no defence is applicable, in \"Rylands\" itself Lord Cairns accepted that there were some situations where the case should not be applied.\n\nIn Australia, the principles of \"Rylands v Fletcher\" were \"killed off\" by the High Court of Australia in \"Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd\". The High Court's view was that the \"Rylands\" principles \"should now been seen ... as absorbed by the principles of ordinary negligence, and not as an independent principle of strict liability\". Contrasting this, the principles have escaped destruction in Hong Kong, where the courts are yet to follow the examples set by Australia and England and Wales, and \"Rylands\" remains an independent tort.\n\nThe rule of strict liability famously laid down by Blackburn J., in Rylands v. Fletcher, proved to be rather ineffective with the passage of time to counter the dangerous use of one’s property or an industry that produced substances or wastes detrimental to public health. The pre-requirements essential for establishing a liability under the principle of strict liability viz., the non-natural use of land, use of a dangerous thing, and the element of escape provided substantial loopholes to the enterprises to escape liability under the Rylands v. Fletcher rule. Moreover, the exceptions provided within the rule (and restated by the Supreme Court of India in MC Mehta v. Union of India) afford ample opportunity to the commercial enterprises to escape liability.\n\nThe Supreme Court of India in MC Mehta v. Union of India evolved a more stringent rule of strict liability than the Rylands v. Fletcher rule. In this case, which involved the leakage of and the harm caused by Oleum gas from one of the units of Shriram industries in Delhi, the court held that keeping in mind the needs and demands of a modern society with highly advanced scientific knowledge and technology where for the sake of development programme, it was necessary to carry out inherently dangerous or hazardous industry, a new rule had to be laid down to adequately deal with the problems arising in a highly industrialised economy. This new rule had to be based on the English rule of strict liability, but had to be even more stringent, as a result of which no firm carrying out an inherently dangerous or hazardous activity might escape from liability, irrespective of whether there was any negligence involved on the part of the firm or not. \n\nThe court also pointed out that the duty owed by such an enterprise to the society is “absolute and non-delegable” and that the enterprise cannot escape liability by showing that it had taken all reasonable care and there was no negligence on its part. The bases of the new rule as indicated by the Supreme Court are two:\n\n1) If an enterprise is permitted to carry on any hazardous or inherently dangerous activity for its profit, the law must presume that such permission is conditional on the enterprise absorbing the cost of any accident (including indemnification of all those who suffer harm in the accident) arising on account of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity as an appropriate item of its overheads; and\n\n2) The enterprise alone has the resource to discover and guard against hazards or danger and to provide warning against potential hazards.\n\nThe rule in Rylands v. Fletcher requires non-natural use of land by the defendant and escape of the thing from his land, which causes damage. But the rule in MC Mehta v. Union of India is not dependent upon any such condition. The necessary requirements for applicability of the new rule of absolute liability are that the defendant is engaged in hazardous or inherently dangerous activity and that harm results to anyone on account of an accident in the operation of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity.\n\nThe rule in Rylands v. Fletcher will not cover cases of harm to persons within the premises where the inherently dangerous activity is carried out, for the rule requires escape of the thing which causes harm from the premises. The new rule makes no distinction between the persons within the premises where the enterprise is operating and persons outside the premises because escape of the thing causing harm from the premises is not a necessary condition for the applicability of the rule. Further, the rule in Rylands v. Fletcher, though strict in the sense that it is not dependent on any negligence on the part of the defendant and in this respect similar to the new rule, is not absolute as it is subject to many exceptions but the new rule in Mehta’s case is not only strict but absolute and is subject to no exception.\n\nAnother important point of distinction between the two rules is in the matter of award of damages. Damages awardable where the rule in Rylands v. Fletcher applies will be ordinary or compensatory; but in cases where the rule applicable is the one laid down in MC Mehta’s case the court can allow exemplary damages, and the bigger and more prosperous the enterprise, the greater can be the amount of compensation payable by it. A small bump in the road was encountered in Charan Lal Sahu v. Union of India and doubts were expressed as to the quantum of damages payable. But the Supreme Court set all doubts aside in another landmark decision in the case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India where, it was held that the rule laid down in Mehta’s case was not obiter and was appropriate and suited to the conditions prevailing in the country. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004456", "title": "David Eckstein", "text": "David Eckstein\n\nDavid Mark Eckstein (; born January 20, 1975) is an American former professional baseball player. He was an infielder in Major League Baseball (MLB) for ten seasons. He played college baseball for the University of Florida and played professionally for the Anaheim Angels, St. Louis Cardinals, Toronto Blue Jays, Arizona Diamondbacks, and San Diego Padres. Eckstein won the 2006 World Series Most Valuable Player Award. He is currently serving as a special assistant in the Pittsburgh Pirates operations department.\n\nEckstein played baseball all four years at Seminole High School in Sanford, Florida. He was a two-time all-state selection, and a prominent member of a state championship team. He was also a member of the National Honor Society and the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Eckstein was voted \"Most Helpful\" in the Class of 1993.\n\nIn addition, Eckstein played American Legion Baseball for Post 53.\n\nAt the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida, Eckstein was a walk-on player for coach Joe Arnold's Florida Gators baseball team in the fall of 1994; he later earned an athletic scholarship. A standout in the Southeastern Conference (SEC), he was a first-team All-SEC selection in 1995 and 1996, a first-team All-American in 1996, a three-time SEC Academic Honor Roll selection (1995–1997), and the first two-time Academic All-American in Gators baseball history. Eckstein was a member of the 1996 Gators squad that finished third in the College World Series. He was inducted into the University of Florida Athletic Hall of Fame as a \"Gator Great\" in 2007.\n\nEckstein also played for the Harrisonburg Turks of the Valley Baseball League in Harrisonburg, Virginia.\n\nEckstein was drafted by the Boston Red Sox in the 19th round of the 1997 amateur draft, and selected off waivers by the Anaheim Angels on August 16, 2000. During the championship year, he led the major leagues with three grand slams, including grand slams in back-to-back games against the Toronto Blue Jays, one of which was a walk-off grand slam leading the Angels to complete the sweep over Toronto, at a time when the Angels were 7–14. After the sweep of the Jays, the Angels went on to win 20 of their next 23 games.\n\nAt the end of the 2004 season, Eckstein was part of a \"shortstop merry-go-round,\" in which three free agent shortstops swapped teams: Édgar Rentería went from the Cardinals to the Boston Red Sox, Orlando Cabrera went from the Red Sox to the Angels, and Eckstein went from the Angels to the Cardinals.\nIn his first seven seasons, he amassed 1,079 hits while batting .286. He was voted to the National League All-Star team in 2005, along with teammates Chris Carpenter, Albert Pujols, Jason Isringhausen and Jim Edmonds. He was a late addition to the 2006 All-Star team. In 3,772 regular season at-bats, Eckstein struck out only 305 times, with a total of 22 in 2007.\n\nEckstein was a fan favorite in St. Louis, who considered him to be a \"pesky\" hitter (he chokes up on the bat about 2 inches). On Mother's Day, May 14, 2006, Eckstein was one of more than 50 hitters who brandished a pink bat to benefit the Breast Cancer Foundation.\n\nAs a member of the 2006 World Series Champion St. Louis Cardinals, Eckstein was named the World Series MVP. Following a 1–11 start in the first 2 games of the World Series, Eckstein went 8 for 22 with 4 RBI and scored 3 runs in the series, including going 4-for-5 with three doubles in game 4. The World Series victory with the Cardinals made Eckstein one of few starting shortstops who have won a World Series in both the American and National Leagues.\n\nEckstein was brought back in front of over 47,000 fans to throw out the first pitch of Game 6 of the World Series in St. Louis on October 27, 2011.\n\nOn November 5, 2007, Eckstein became a free agent along with Kip Wells, Troy Percival, and Miguel Cairo. On December 13, 2007, he signed a one-year, $4.5 million contract with the Toronto Blue Jays.\n\nOn August 31, 2008, Eckstein was traded to the Arizona Diamondbacks for minor league pitcher Chad Beck.\n\nOn January 15, 2009, he signed a discounted one-year contract with the San Diego Padres on the condition that he would play primarily second base. On August 22, 2009, the San Diego Padres extended Eckstein's contract through 2010.\n\nEckstein did not join a team for the season. In June, it was reported that he received offers from the Padres and other teams, but opted to not play baseball. He is working for his wife, actress Ashley Eckstein. He officially retired on January 22, 2012.\n\nIn 1,311 games over 10 seasons, Eckstein posted a .280 batting average (1,414-for-5,041) with 701 runs, 232 doubles, 20 triples, 35 home runs, 392 RBI, 123 stolen bases, 376 bases on balls, .345 on-base percentage and .355 slugging percentage. He finished his career with a .982 fielding percentage playing at shortstop and second base. In 44 postseason games, he hit .278 (49-for-176) with 26 runs, 4 doubles, 2 home runs, 18 RBI, 7 stolen bases and 12 walks.\n\nEckstein became a candidate for induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum for the first time on November 9, 2015. He earned two votes.\n\nEckstein was born in Sanford, Florida. He married actress Ashley Drane on November 26, 2005, at his family church in Sanford, Florida, followed by a reception at Walt Disney World. He is a fan of professional wrestling, having made public appearances with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling during the 2006 World Series and on February 11, 2007, he co-managed (along with Tampa Bay Rays outfielder Johnny Damon) TNA wrestler Lance Hoyt for his match with current White Sox conditioning coach Dale Torborg, managed by Sox catcher A. J. Pierzynski at TNA's Against All Odds pay-per-view.\n\nAfter his older brother, Rick, was hired after the 2018 season as the hitting coach for the Pittsburgh Pirates, David was hired in February as a special assistant in their baseball operations department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004479", "title": "Elmer Ernest Roper", "text": "Elmer Ernest Roper\n\nElmer Ernest Roper (June 4, 1893 – November 12, 1994) was a politician in Alberta, Canada. He served as leader of the Alberta Co-operative Commonwealth Federation, the mayor of Edmonton, and a member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta. He was also a candidate for the House of Commons of Canada.\n\nRoper was born in Ingonish, Nova Scotia, the son of a sea captain. He was educated in Sydney, and moved west to Calgary, Alberta in 1907. There he apprenticed as a printer and found work in the Calgary Herald's press room. On June 15, 1914, he married Goldie C. Bell, with whom he would have three daughters and one son and who would predecease him by weeks.\n\nHe became involved in the labour movement as a young man, and was president of the Calgary Trades & Labour Council by 1916. His tenure in this position was short-lived, as he moved to Edmonton the following year to become the head of the \"Edmonton Bulletin\"'s press room. There he took a position of leadership in running the Edmonton District Labour Council (later the Edmonton Trades & Labour Council), and was involved in the 1919 strike (a sympathy strike with the Winnipeg General Strike).\n\nIn 1921 he left the \"Bulletin\" to found his own printing business, which he would operate until his retirement. The same year, he made his first bid for elected office.\n\nIn the 1921 provincial election, Roper ran as a Labour candidate in Edmonton. He finished thirteenth of twenty-six candidates.\n\nIn 1922, Roper became secretary-treasurer of the Alberta Federation of Labour. He would hold the position for a decade. Roper edited the AF of L's official organ \"Alberta Labour News\" from 1921 to 1935when he changed the newspaper's name to \"People's Weekly\" and made it the de facto house organ of the new Alberta Co-operative Commonwealth Federation with William Irvine as co-editor.\n\nRoper ran for school trustee in Edmonton's 1924 municipal election. He finished fourth of seven candidates, in an election in which the top three candidates were elected. He tried again the next year's election, and again finished fourth of seven candidates; however, the board's staggered electoral system meant that, though only three of the board's seven trustees had been elected in 1924, four were up for election in 1924 and Roper was elected. He was re-elected in 1927 but did not seek re-election at the expiration of his second term.\n\nHe continued to seek office at other levels. In the 1926 provincial election, he was again a Labour candidate in Edmonton. He was less successful on this occasion, finishing sixteenth of eighteen candidates on the first ballot. He tried again in a 1931 by-election resulting from the death of Charles Weaver; he finished second of four candidates as Conservative Frederick C. Jamieson reclaimed the seat for Weaver's party.\n\nRoper's lone attempt at federal office took place in the 1935 election, when he ran for the newly formed Co-operative Commonwealth Federation in Edmonton East; he finished fourth of six candidates as William Samuel Hall took the riding for the Social Credit Party of Canada.\n\nRoper had joined the CCF at the provincial level as well and ran under its banner in the 1940 election, finishing seventh of nineteen candidates on the first ballot and being defeated once again. No CCF members were elected during that election but that was about to change.\n\nOn May 4, 1942 Conservative leader David Duggan died, and his Edmonton seat became vacant. Roper was nominated as the CCF's candidate in the ensuing by-election and came out on top of a five-person field. CCF leader Chester Ronning quickly stepped aside to hand the leadership to the party's first MLA.\n\nElmer Roper would be leader of the CCF for thirteen years, but he would not have to sit as its lone MLA that long: after the 1944 election, he was joined in the legislature by Aylmer Liesemer of Calgary. Two seats would be as high as the CCF would climb during Roper's tenure as its leader.\n\nBoth incumbents were re-elected in the 1948 election, but the party's share of the vote fell from 25% to 19%, and Roper did not add any new MLAs to his tiny caucus as Social Credit's stranglehold over the province remained intact. He did get a new MLA after the 1952 election - Willingdon's Nick Dushenski - but this gain was cancelled by Liesemer's defeat. Worse, the CCF's vote fell further, to 14%, and the Alberta Liberal Party doubled its seat count to four, making it clearly the official opposition and leaving the CCF as the third party.\n\nThings then got worse for Roper. In the 1955 election, the CCF's share of the vote was only 8% and the previously dormant Conservatives passed it in the seat count. Moreover, Roper himself lost his seat in Edmonton (although Dusehsnki was returned and Stanley Ruzycki was elected in Vegreville). Roper placed third of thirty candidates on the first ballot, but as Premier Ernest Manning's large number of surplus votes was redistributed to the riding's other Social Credit candidates (and James Harper Prowse's only slightly smaller surplus was redistributed to other Liberals, Roper fell out of the top seven, where he needed to remain in order to be re-elected.\n\nFollowing the election, Roper relinquished the CCF leadership. He would never again seek provincial office.\n\nIn advance of the 1959 municipal election, the city's mayoralty was up for grabs. William Hawrelak had resigned in scandal, and the man that the Edmonton City Council had chosen to replace him, Frederick John Mitchell, had decided to return to his aldermanic post rather than contest the mayoral election. Roper chose to contest it, and defeated three candidates (most notably his former legislature colleague James Prowse). He was re-elected in the 1961 election, handily defeating alderman Ed Leger, but did not seek re-election at the conclusion of his second term. At the age of seventy, he was finished with politics.\n\nElmer Roper retired to Victoria, British Columbia in 1975, and died there November 12, 1994. His wife had died in August, just after the couple's eightieth anniversary, and he was survived by two daughters and a son, former Edmonton alderman G Lyall Roper.\n\nHe had been made an honorary life member of the Rotary Club in 1928, and had received an honorary doctorate in laws from the University of Alberta in 1959. Additionally, Roper Road and Roper Industrial, an Edmonton road and neighbourhood respectively, are named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004480", "title": "Functionalism–intentionalism debate", "text": "Functionalism–intentionalism debate\n\nThe functionalism–intentionalism debate is a historiographical debate about the origins of the Holocaust as well as most aspects of the Third Reich, such as foreign policy. The debate on the origins of the Holocaust centres on essentially two questions:\n\n\nThe terms were coined in a 1981 essay by the British Marxist historian Timothy Mason. Notable functionalists have included Timothy Mason, Raul Hilberg, Karl Schleunes, Christopher Browning, Hans Mommsen, Martin Broszat, Götz Aly, Yehuda Bauer and Zygmunt Bauman. Notable intentionalists have included Gerald Fleming, Karl Dietrich Bracher, Andreas Hillgruber, Klaus Hildebrand, Eberhard Jäckel, Gerhard Weinberg, Walter Laqueur, Saul Friedländer, Richard Breitman, Lucy Dawidowicz and Daniel Jonah Goldhagen.\n\nThe search for the origins of the Holocaust began almost as soon as World War II ended. At the Nuremberg War Crimes Trials of 1945–46, the \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question in Europe\" was represented by the prosecution as part of the long-term plan on the part of the Nazi leadership going back to the foundations of the Nazi Party in 1919. Subsequently, most historians subscribed to what would be nowadays considered to be the extreme intentionalist interpretation. Books such as Karl Schleunes' \"The Twisted Road to Auschwitz\" which was published in 1970 influenced a number of historians to challenge the prevailing interpretation and suggested there was no master plan for the Holocaust. In the 1970s, advocates of the intentionalist school of thought were known as \"the straight road to Auschwitz\" camp or as the \"programmists\", because they insisted that Hitler was fulfilling a programme. Advocates of the functionalist school were known as \"the twisted road to Auschwitz\" camp or as the \"structuralists\", because of their insistence that it was the internal power structures of the Third Reich that led to the Holocaust.\n\nIn 1981, the British historian Timothy Mason published an essay entitled \"Intention and Explanation\" that was in part an attack on the scholarship of Karl Dietrich Bracher and Klaus Hildebrand, both of whom Mason accused of focusing too much on Adolf Hitler as an explanation of the Holocaust. In this essay, Mason called the followers of \"the twisted road to Auschwitz\"/structuralist school \"functionalists\" because of their belief that the Holocaust arose as part of the functioning of the Nazi state, while the followers of \"the straight road to Auschwitz\"/programmist school were called \"intentionalists\" because of their belief that it was Hitler's intentions alone that explained the Holocaust. The terms \"intentionalist\" and \"functionalist\" have largely replaced the previous terms used to signify the conflicting schools of thought.\n\nThose historians who take an intentionalist line, like Andreas Hillgruber, argue that everything that happened after Operation Barbarossa was part of a masterplan he credited Hitler with developing in the 1920s. Hillgruber wrote in his 1967 book \"Germany and the Two World Wars\" that for Hitler:\n\nThe German historian Helmut Krausnick argued that:\n\nStreim wrote in response that Krausnick had been taken in by the line invented after the war to reduce the responsibility of the \"Einsatzgruppen\" leaders brought to trial. Klaus Hildebrand wrote that:\nAgainst the intentionalist interpretation, functionalist historians like Martin Broszat argued that the lower officials of the Nazi state had started exterminating people on their own initiative. Broszat argued that the Holocaust began \"bit by bit\" as German officials stumbled into genocide. Broszat argued that in the autumn of 1941 German officials had begun \"improvised\" killing schemes as the \"simplest\" solution to the \"Jewish Question\". In Broszat's opinion, Hitler subsequently approved of the measures initiated by the lower officials and allowed the expansion of the Holocaust from Eastern Europe to all of Europe. In this way, Broszat argued that the \"Shoah\" was not begun in response to an order, written or unwritten, from Hitler but was rather “a way out of the blind alley into which the Nazis had manoeuvred themselves”. The American historian Christopher Browning has argued that:\n\nBy contrast, the Swiss historian Philippe Burrin argues that such a decision was not made before August 1941 at the earliest, pointing to orders given by Himmler on 30 July 1941 to the 2nd SS Cavalry Regiment and the SS Cavalry Brigade operating in the Pripet Marshes in the Pripyat operation calling for the murder of male Jews only while the Jewish women and children were to be driven into the Marshes. Browning argues that sometime in mid-July 1941 Hitler made the decision to begin general genocide owing to his exhilaration over his victories over the Red Army, whereas Burrin contends that the decision was made in late August 1941 owing to Hitler's frustration over the slowing down of the Wehrmacht. Kershaw argues that the dramatic expansion in both the range of victims and the intensity of the killings after mid-August 1941 indicates that Hitler issued an order to that effect, most probably a verbal order conveyed to the \"Einsatzgruppen\" commanders through either Himmler or Heydrich. It remains unclear whether that was a decision made on Hitler's own initiative motivated only by his own anti-Semitic prejudices, or (impressed with the willingness and ability of \"Einsatzgruppe\" A to murder Jewish women and children) ordered that the other three \"Einsatzgruppen\" emulate \"Einsatzgruppe\" A's bloody example.\n\nThe Canadian historian Erich Haberer has contended that the \"Baltic flashpoint of genocide\", as the killings committed by \"Einsatzgruppe\" A between July–October 1941 are known to historians, were the key development in the evolution of Nazi anti-Semitic policy that resulted in the Holocaust. The Baltic area witnessed both the most extensive and intense killings of all the \"Einsatzgruppen\" with 90,000–100,000 Jews killed between July and October 1941, which led to the almost total destruction of the Jewish communities in that area. Haberer maintains that the \"Baltic flashpoint of genocide\" occurred at time when the other Nazi plans for a \"territorial final solution\" such as the Madagascar Plan were unlikely to occur, and thus suggested to the Nazi leadership that genocide was indeed \"feasible\" as a \"final solution to the Jewish Question\".\n\nExtreme functionalists such as Götz Aly believe that the Nazi leadership had nothing to do with initiating the Holocaust and that the entire initiative came from the lower ranks of the German bureaucracy. This philosophy is what is known as the bottom-up approach of the Holocaust. Aly has made much of documents from the bureaucracy of the German Government-General of Poland arguing that the population of Poland would have to decrease by 25% to allow the Polish economy to grow. Criticism centers on the idea that this explanation does not really show why the Nazis would deport Jews from France and the Netherlands to death camps in Poland if it was Poland the Nazis were concerned with, and why the Jews of Poland were targeted instead of the random sample of 25% of the Polish population. Additional criticism of functionalism points out that Hitler and other Nazi leaders delayed railcars providing supplies to front line troops in the Soviet Union so that Jews could be deported by rail from the USSR to death camps thus demonstrating the pursuit of genocidal policies over pragmatic wartime actions.\n\nModerate functionalists, such as Karl Schleunes and Christopher Browning, believe that the rivalry within the unstable Nazi power structure provided the major driving force behind the Holocaust. Moderate functionalists believe that the Nazis aimed to expel all of the Jews from Europe, but only after the failure of these schemes did they resort to genocide. This is sometimes referred to as the \"twisted road\" to genocide, after a book by Schleunes called \"The Twisted Road to Auschwitz\".\n\nExtreme intentionalists believe that Hitler definitely had plans for the Holocaust by 1924, if not earlier. Dawidowicz argued that Hitler already decided upon the Holocaust no later than by 1919. To support her interpretation, Dawidowicz pointed to numerous extreme anti-Semitic statements made by Hitler. Criticism has centered on the fact that none of these statements refer to killing the entire Jewish people; indeed, very few refer to killing Jews at all. Only once in \"Mein Kampf\" does Hitler ever refer to killing Jews, when he states \"If at the beginning of the war and during the war twelve or fifteen thousand of these Hebrew corrupters of the people had been held under poison gas, as happened to hundreds of thousands of our very best German workers in the field, the sacrifice of millions at the front would not have been in vain.\" Given that \"Mein Kampf\" is 694 pages long, Dawidowicz's critics contend, she makes too much of one sentence. Daniel Goldhagen went further, suggesting that popular opinion in Germany was already sympathetic to a policy of Jewish extermination before the Nazi party came to power. He asserts in his book \"Hitler's Willing Executioners\" that Germany enthusiastically welcomed the persecution of Jews by the Nazi regime in the period 1933–39.\n\nModerate intentionalists such as Richard Breitman believe that Hitler had decided upon the Holocaust sometime in the late 1930s and certainly no later than 1939 or 1941. This school makes much of Hitler's \"Prophecy Speech\" of January 30, 1939 before the Reichstag where Hitler stated \"If the international Jewish financiers in and outside Europe should succeed in plunging the nations once again into a world war, then the result will not be the victory of Jewry, but the annihilation of the Jewish race in Europe!\" The major problem with this thesis, as Yehuda Bauer points out, is that though this statement clearly commits Hitler to genocide, he made no effort after delivering this speech to have it carried out. Furthermore, Ian Kershaw has pointed out that there are several diary entries by Joseph Goebbels in late 1941, in which Goebbels writes that \"the Führer's prophecy is coming true in a most terrible way.\" The general impression one gets is that Goebbels is quite surprised that Hitler was serious about carrying out the threat in the \"Prophecy Speech.\"\n\nA number of scholars such as Arno J. Mayer, Peter Longerich, Ian Kershaw and Michael Marrus have developed a synthesis of the functionalist and intentionalist schools. They have suggested the Holocaust was a result of pressures that came from both above and below and that Hitler lacked a master plan, but was the decisive force behind the Holocaust. The phrase 'cumulative radicalisation' is used in this context to sum up the way extreme rhetoric and competition among different Nazi agencies produced increasingly extreme policies, as fanatical bureaucratic underlings put into practice what they believed Hitler would have approved based on his widely disseminated speeches and propaganda. This phenomenon is referred to more generally in social psychology as groupshift.\n\nGiven the fact that scholars have written so much in relation to Nazi Germany, Richard Bessel asserts that, \"The result is a much better informed, much more detailed and more nuanced picture of the Nazi regime, and most serious historians of the Nazi regime now are to some extent both 'intentionalists' and 'functionalists'—insofar as those terms still can be used at all.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004483", "title": "Abazins", "text": "Abazins\n\nThe Abazin, Abazinians or Abaza (Abaza and Abkhaz: Абаза; Circassian: Абазэхэр; ; ; ), are an ethnic group of the Northwest Caucasus, closely related to the Abkhaz and Circassian people. They live mostly in Turkey, Egypt and in Karachay-Cherkessia and Stavropol Krai in the North Caucasus region of Russia. The Tapanta (), a branch of the Abaza, lived between the Besleney and Kabardian princedoms on the upper Kuban.\n\nThe Abazin originally inhabited the Sadzen region in the western part of Abkhazia and migrated from Abkhazia to Abazinia in 14th and 15th centuries. They later migrated to various regions of the former Ottoman Empire in the 18th and 19th centuries. Since the late 18th century, their dominant religion is Sunni Islam (Hanafi).\n\nAbaza people speak the Abaza language, a Northwest Caucasian language closely related to Abkhaz and Circassian. There are two dialects of Abaza spoken in Karachay-Cherkessia: \"Ashkharua\" and \"Tapanta\". The culture and traditions of the Abazin are similar to those of the Circassians. On many old maps Abazin territory is marked as part of Circassia (Adygea).\n\nAccording to the 2010 Russian census, there were 43,341 Abazins in Russia.\n\nAn Abazin diaspora exists in Turkey, Egypt and in Middle Eastern countries such as Jordan and Syria, most of which are descendants of muhajirs from the Caucasian War with the Russian Empire.\n\nThere is a significant Abazin presence in Turkey. An estimated 150,000 Abaza live in the provinces of Eskişehir, Samsun, Yozgat, Adana and Kayseri. Most of them belong to Ashkharua clan that fought against the Tsarist army and emigrated to Turkey after losing the battle of Kbaada (Krasnaya Polyana in today's Sochi), whereas the Tapanta clan fought with the Russian forces.\n\nA prominent example in Egypt is the Abaza family, a large Abazin clan.\nThe Abaza family still holds to this day an élite place in Egyptian society and constitutes Egypt's largest family, with well over 15,000 members active in all aspects of society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004486", "title": "Electronic literature", "text": "Electronic literature\n\nElectronic literature or digital literature is a genre of literature encompassing works created exclusively on and for digital devices, such as computers, tablets, and mobile phones. A work of electronic literature can be defined as \"a construction whose literary aesthetics emerge from computation\", \"work that could only exist in the space for which it was developed/written/coded—the digital space\". This means that these writings cannot be easily printed, or cannot be printed at all, because elements crucial to the text are unable to be carried over onto a printed version. The digital literature world continues to innovate print's conventions all the while challenging the boundaries between digitized literature and electronic literature. Some novels are exclusive to tablets and smartphones for the simple fact that they require a touchscreen. Digital literature tends to require a user to traverse through the literature through the digital setting, making the use of the medium part of the literary exchange. Espen J. Aarseth wrote in his book \"Cybertext: Perspectives on Ergodic Literature\" that \"it is possible to explore, get lost, and discover secret paths in these texts, not metaphorically, but through the topological structures of the textual machinery\".\n\nIt is difficult to accurately define electronic literature. The phrase itself consists of two words, each with their own specific meanings. Arthur Krystal in \"What Is Literature\" explains that \"lit(t)eratura referred to any writing formed with letters\". However, Krystal goes on to explore what literature has transformed into: \"a record of one human being's sojourn on earth, proffered in verse or prose that artfully weaves together knowledge of the past with a heightened awareness of the present in ever new verbal configurations\". Electronic denotes anything \"of, relating to, or being a medium...by which information is transmitted electronically\". Thus electronic literature can be considered a branch from the main tree of literature. Katherine Hayles discusses the topic in the online article \"Electronic Literature: What Is It\". She argues \"electronic literature, generally considered to exclude print literature that has been digitized, is by contrast 'digital born', and (usually) meant to be read on a computer\". A definition offered by the Electronic Literature Organization (ELO) states electronic literature \"refers to works with an important literary aspect that takes advantage of the capabilities and contexts provided by the stand-alone or networked computer\".\n\nOn its official website, the ELO offers this additional definition of electronic literature as consisting of works which are:\n\n\nWhile the ELO definition incorporates many aspects that are applied in digital literature, the definition lacks any solid guidelines and also fails to recognize literature created on social media platforms including Twitterature. With the apparent vagueness, many debate on what truly qualifies as a piece of e-literature. A large number of works fall through the cracks of the imprecise characteristics that generally make up electronic literature.\n\nA gradual transition into the digital world began with new advancements in technology to makes things more efficient and accessible. This is comparable to the release of the printing press in the 15th century, as people did not consider it a major contributor to literature at first. In the 1960s and 1970s, the creation of the personal computer allowed people to begin expanding literature into the electronic realm.\n\nIn 1877, spoken word recordings began with the invention of the phonograph. In the 1930s, the first \"talking book\" recordings were made to hold short stories and book chapters. The 1970s were when the term \"audiobook\" became part of the vernacular as cassette tapes entered the public. 1971 was the year officially accepted as the year of the first e-book. Although there were several contenders to the invention of an \"electronic book\" prior to this, Michael Hart, the founder of the Gutenberg Project, has been accepted as the official inventor of the e-book after creating a digital copy of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nIn 1975–76, Will Crowther programmed a text game named \"Colossal Cave Adventure\" (also known as \"Adventure\"). Considered one of the earlier computer adventure games, it possessed a story that had the reader make choices on which way to go. These choices could lead the reader to the end, or to his or her untimely death. This non-linear format was later mimicked by the text adventure game, \"Zork\", created by a group of MIT students in 1977–79. These two games are considered to be the first examples of interactive fiction as well as some of the earliest video games.\nThe earliest pieces of electronic literature as presently defined were created using Storyspace, software developed by Jay David Bolter and Michael Joyce in the 1980s. They sold the software in 1990 to Eastgate Systems, a small software company that has maintained and updated the code in Storyspace up to the present. Storyspace and other similar programs use hypertext to create links within text. Literature using hypertext is frequently referred to as hypertext fiction. Originally, these stories were often disseminated on discs and later on CD. Hypertext fiction is still being created today using not only Storyspace, but other programs such as Twine.\n\nWhile hypertext fiction is still being made and interactive fiction created with text stories and images, there is a discussion over the term, \"literature\" being used to describe video games. Though \"Adventure\" and \"Zork\" are considered video games, advancements in technology have evolved video gaming mediums from text to action and back to text. More often than not, video games are told as interactive literature where the player makes choices and alters the outcome of the story. The video game \"Mass Effect\"s story is entirely based around these choices, and \"Mass Effect 3\" is an even better example, changing character interactions with the player character and how the game ends is based on the player's actions.\n\nIn other instances the games are a story and the player exists to move the plot along. \"Journey\", a game by Thatgamecompany released in 2012 for the PlayStation 3, is more story than game. The titular \"journey\" is the trek the player takes from start to finish as a character with limited mobility and world interaction. While the player can play with one other player at a time on the network, they cannot communicate through traditional means. With no actual words, this game takes the player through a world from prologue to epilogue.\n\nIn Espen Aarseth's \"Cybertext: Perspectives on Ergodic Literature\", he defines \"ergodic literature\" as literature where \"nontrivial effort is required to allow the reader to traverse the text\". An example from Aarseth states, \"Since writing always has been a spatial activity, it is reasonable to assume that ergodic textuality has been practiced as long as linear writing. For instance, the wall inscriptions of the temples in ancient Egypt were often connected two-dimensionally (on one wall) or three-dimensionally (from wall to wall and from room to room), and this layout allowed a nonlinear arrangement of the religious text in accordance with the symbolic architectural layout of the temple.\" Using these examples hypertext fiction and interactive fiction can be considered ergodic literature, and under the umbrella of interactive fiction, so can video games. Electronic literature continues to evolve.\n\nElectronic literature, according to Hayles, becomes unplayable after a decade or less due to the \"fluid nature of media\". Therefore, electronic literature risks losing the opportunity to build the \"traditions associated with print literature\". On the other hand, classics such as Michael Joyce's \"afternoon, a story\" (1987) are still read and have been republished on CD, while simple HTML hypertext fictions from the 1990s are still accessible online and can be read in modern browsers.\n\nSeveral organizations are dedicated to preserving works of electronic literature. The UK-based Digital Preservation Coalition aims to preserve digital resources in general, while the Electronic Literature Organization's PAD (Preservation / Archiving / Dissemination) initiative gave recommendations on how to think ahead when writing and publishing electronic literature, as well as how to migrate works running on defunct platforms to current technologies.\n\nThe Electronic Literature Collection is a series of anthologies of electronic literature published by the Electronic Literature Organization, both on CD/DVD and online, and this is another strategy in working to make sure that electronic literature is available for future generations.\n\nThe Maryland Institute for Technologies in the Humanities and the Electronic Literature Lab at Washington State University - Vancouver also work towards the documentation and preservation of electronic literature and hypermedia.\n\nNoteworthy authors, critics, and works associated with electronic literature include:\n\nRobert Coover, a professor of creative writing at Brown University, helped bring Talan Memmott to the university as its first graduate fellow of electronic writing.\n\nPry, a novella, a collaboration between Danny Cannizzaro and Samantha Gorman (also known as Tender Claws). It is an electronic literature application for phones and tablets. By utilizing the touch-based gestures used on tablets, Pry proves to be a very dynamic approach to the emerging e-lit genre. The use of these gestures allow the reader to dig beneath the story at the surface of Pry.\n\n\"Game, game, game and again game\" (2008), \"Nothing you have done deserves such praise\" (2013), \"I made this. you play this. we are enemies\" (2009), and \"Scrape Scraperteeth\" (2011) are important examples of the intersection of games and poetry. They are created by digital poet and net-artist Jason Nelson whose career has been devoting to exploring interface, interactivity, and surrealism within electronic literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004504", "title": "Plant Proteome Database", "text": "Plant Proteome Database\n\nThe Plant Proteome Database is a National Science Foundation-funded project to determine the biological function of each protein in plants. It includes data for two plants that are widely studied in molecular biology, Arabidopsis thaliana and maize (Zea mays). Initially the project was limited to plant plastids, under the name of the Plastid PDB, but was expanded and renamed Plant PDB in November 2007.\n\nProteome\n\n"}
{"id": "2004506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004506", "title": "Bergamot mint", "text": "Bergamot mint\n\nBergamot mint may refer to either of two fragrant herbs in the mint family, Lamiaceae:\n\n"}
{"id": "2004508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004508", "title": "Minam, Oregon", "text": "Minam, Oregon\n\nMinam was named after the Minam River, which in turn was named for the Native American name for the locality \"E-mi-ne-mah\", which described a valley or canyon where a plant used for food that resembled a small sunflower was abundant. The form \"Minam River\" was used as early as 1864. Minam post office was established in 1890, closed in 1891, and was reestablished in 1910. Minam was platted in 1907; a railroad branch through the community to Joseph, completed in 1908, probably prompted the reopening of the post office.\n\nThis region experiences warm (but not hot) and dry summers, with no average monthly temperatures above 71.6 °F. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Minam has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csb\" on climate maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004510", "title": "Martin Broszat", "text": "Martin Broszat\n\nMartin Broszat (14 August 1926 – 14 October 1989) was a German historian specializing in modern German social history. As director of the Institut für Zeitgeschichte (Institute for Contemporary History) in Munich from 1972 until his death, he became known as one of the world's most eminent scholars of Nazi Germany.\n\nBroszat joined the Institut für Zeitgeschichte in 1955 after obtaining his PhD from the University of Cologne. His work at the Institute included serving as an expert witness for the prosecution at the 1963–1965 Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials, and helping to debunk the forged Hitler Diaries in 1983. He also held an honorary professorship at the University of Konstanz.\n\nAccording to Ian Kershaw, Broszat made important contributions in four areas. From the late 1950s, he worked on the history of Eastern Europe, especially Poland, and on German concentration camps. Also, he explored the structure of the Nazi German state, which led to his book \"Der Staat Hitlers\" (1969), published in English as \"The Hitler State\" (1981). In the 1970s, he became interested in \"Alltagsgeschichte\" and examined everyday life under the Nazis, developing the concept of \"\"Resistenz\"\" (immunity) and co-editing a six-volume work about Bavaria under National Socialism, \"Bayern in der NS-Zeit\" (1977–1983). Finally, in 1985, he began the debate about the \"historicization\" of Nazi Germany, arguing that it should be studied like any other period of history, without moralizing and recognizing its complexity.\n\nBorn in Leipzig, Germany (the Weimar Republic), to a Protestant family, the second son of a postmaster, Broszat attended the Königin-Carola Gymnasium from 1937 and completed his Abitur there in 1944. Adolf Hitler had become Chancellor of Germany in January 1933, when Broszat was six, and World War II (1939–1945) had started when Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, and France and the United Kingdom declared war on Germany, as they had warned they would. After leaving school, Broszat enlisted and completed basic military training with the Wehrmacht (\"Stammkompanie des Panzergrenadier-Ersatzbataillons\" 108, Dresden), followed by officer training, then service at the front.\n\nAfter the war, Broszat studied history at the University of Leipzig from 1946, graduating in 1949, then undertook graduate studies at the University of Cologne. He obtained his PhD in 1952, supervised by Theodor Schieder, for a thesis on German antisemitism, \"Die antisemitische Bewegung im Wilhelminischen Deutschland\" (\"The antisemitism movement in Germany during the Wilhelmine period\").\n\nAs a teenager, Broszat joined the Hitler Youth in Großdeuben (now part of Böhlen), at a time when membership was mandatory for \"Aryans\". In 1944 a membership card for the Nazi Party was issued for him. Broszat acknowledged having joined the Hitler Youth, but that a Nazi Party card existed in his name was first made public after his death. It is not known whether he applied to join the party, or whether the card was issued to him automatically as a Hitler Youth member who had come of age; at that point, members were admitted from age 17. His card (number 9994096) is one of ten million held by the German Bundesarchiv. When he applied to study at the University of Leipzig in 1946, he answered no to the question on the form: \"Were you a member of the NSDAP?\" By then, Leipzig had fallen under the control of the Soviet Union and had been annexed to East Germany. The historian Norbert Frei writes that making a false statement would have been risky, and concludes that Broszat probably did not know that a membership card had been issued in his name.\n\nAfter university, Broszat worked with Theodor Schieder on the eight-volume \"Dokumentation der Vertreibung der Deutschen aus Ost-Mitteleuropa\" (1954–1957), and in 1955 he joined the Institut für Zeitgeschichte in Munich. The Institute had been founded to study the Nazi era; the head of its advisory board at the time was Hans Rothfels, who also edited its journal, \"Vierteljahrshefte für Zeitgeschichte\".\n\nInitially Broszat's work focused on German \"Ostpolitik\" (policy in the east), and antisemitism and fascism in south-eastern and eastern Europe. During this period he wrote two books about German involvement in Poland, \"Nationalsozialistische Polenpolitik\" (1961), which examined the German occupation of Poland, and \"Zweihundert Jahre deutscher Polenpolitik\" (1963). The work won him accolades in Poland as one of the first German historians to offer an honest account of German–Polish relations.\n\nA recurring interest for Broszat was why and how National Socialism had taken hold in Germany. \"Broszat's driving incentive was to help an understanding of how Germany could sink into barbarity,\" Kersaw wrote. \"That he himself had succumbed to the elan of the Nazi Movement was central to his motivation to elucidate for later generations how it could have happened.\" In his book \"Der Nationalsozialismus\" (1960), published in English as \"German National Socialism 1919–1945\" (1966), Broszat examined Nazi ideology, which he regarded as incoherent. For Broszat, the constants were anti-communism, antisemitism and a perceived need for \"Lebensraum\". In his view, these were a cloak for the essence of National Socialism: an intense desire to realize the \"rebirth\" of \"the German nation\", and irrational hatred of those considered \"Volksfeinde\" (enemies of the German people) and \"Volksfremde\" (those foreign to the German \"race\"). Broszat saw the primary supporters of the Nazis as the middle classes, who turned to Nazism to alleviate their anxieties about impoverishment and \"proletarianization\" in the wake of hyperinflation in the early 1920s and the mass unemployment that began with the Great Depression.\n\nIn 1962 Broszat wrote a letter to the \"Die Zeit\" newspaper to \"hammer home, once more, the persistently ignored or denied difference between concentration and extermination camps\". The Germans had built concentration camps in Germany, but their five extermination camps—built for the purpose of gassing Jews—were in occupied Poland. (The death toll in the concentration camps was high nevertheless, from starvation, disease, beatings, and forced labour.) Holocaust deniers such as Paul Rassinier, Harry Elmer Barnes and David Hoggan made much of the fact in the 1960s that there had been no functioning gas chamber at the Dachau concentration camp in Germany. Broszat noted in the letter that a gas chamber was built there shortly before the end of the war to convert Dachau into a death camp, but it was never used. He argued that the confusion in the public's mind between concentration and death camps, and the tendency erroneously to describe Dachau as a death camp, was aiding the deniers. \n\nWhen the German-Jewish historian Joseph Wulf accused a prominent German doctor, Wilhelm Hagen, a senior official in the West German Ministry of Health, of having helped to liquidate Jews in the Warsaw Ghetto, Broszat and other experts from the Institut für Zeitgeschichte tried to silence him during an exchange of letters in 1963. Hagen, who had worked during the war in the health department of the General Government area of German-occupied Poland, insisted he had done everything in his power to save the Jews of the Warsaw Ghetto and asked the Institut für Zeitgeschichte to support his version of events. Broszat wrote a letter to Wulf demanding that he retract his allegations against Hagen \"in the interest of the tidiness of the historical document\". Ian Kershaw wrote that the correspondence between Broszat and Wulf did not present Broszat in the best light. Broszat accepted Wulf's version of events only after Wulf produced a war-time memo written by Hagen urging that sick Jews \"wandering around\" be shot down.\n\nAt the 1963–1965 Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials, in which 20 of those involved with Auschwitz were prosecuted, Broszat and two other researchers from the Institut für Zeitgeschichte—Helmut Krausnick and Hans Buchheim—served as expert witnesses for the prosecution. Their 300-page report, \"Nationalsozialistische Konzentrationslager\", became the basis of their two-volume book (with Hans-Adolf Jacobsen), \"Anatomie des SS-Staates\" (1965), published in English as \"Anatomy of the SS State\" (1968). It was the first comprehensive study of Auschwitz and the SS. \n\nIn \"Der Staat Hitlers\" (\"The Hitler State\") Broszat argued against characterizing Nazi Germany as a totalitarian regime and criticized Karl Dietrich Bracher and Ernst Nolte for advancing such a notion. With Hans Mommsen, Broszat developed a \"structuralist\" or \"functionalist\" interpretation of Nazi Germany, arguing in his 1969 book \"Der Staat Hitlers\" (\"The Hitler State\") that the government had consisted of a welter of competing institutions and power struggles, and that this internal rivalry, not Adolf Hitler, had been the driving force behind the regime. In Broszat's view, Hitler had been a \"weak dictator\" (to use Mommsen's phrase) and the government of Nazi Germany a \"polycracy\" (rule by many), not a \"monocracy\" (rule by one). It was the chaos of the government that led to the collapse of the state and what Kersaw called the \"accelerating progression into barbarism\". Broszat wrote:\n\nThat the Nazi state was a jumble of competing bureaucracies has been widely accepted by historians. The second element, that Hitler was a \"weak dictator\", is less accepted. The argument is that, although Hitler did not involve himself much in daily administration, this stemmed not from an inability to do so (as Broszat suggested), but from a lack of interest in the quotidian.\n\nIn his essay \"Hitler und die Genesis der 'Endlösung': Aus Anlaß der Thesen von David Irving\" (1977), Broszat criticized the English author David Irving's argument in the latter's \"Hitler's War\" (1977) that Hitler had wanted to expel the Jews and make Europe \"judenfrei\" (\"free of Jews\") but had not known about the Holocaust until autumn 1943. The genocide of the Jews, Irving wrote, had been ordered by Heinrich Himmler and other senior Nazis. Broszat's essay was first published in the \"Vierteljahrshefte für Zeitgeschichte\" journal in 1977 and later in English as \"Hitler and the Genesis of the 'Final Solution': An Assessment of David Irving's Theses\".\n\nBroszat did accept that there was no evidence of a written order from Hitler to enact the \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\". When faced with the stalemate on the Eastern Front, the overwhelming of the European rail system by successive deportations of Jews to Poland, and the self-imposed \"problem\" of the three million Polish Jews the Germans had forced into ghettos, German officials in Poland had embarked on improvised killing schemes on their own initiative, he argued. The genocide of the Jews had developed \"stück- und schubweise\" (\"bit by bit\"), he wrote, because the Germans had led themselves into a \"\"Sackgasse\"\" (\"blind alley\").\n\nBroszat's essay was the first account of the origins of the Holocaust by a respected historian in which responsibility for the genocide was not assigned entirely to Hitler. Christopher Browning wrote that, after Broszat's essay, \"the floodgates opened\", and the issue of when and whether Hitler had made a decision to kill the Jews became for a time the key issue of Holocaust historiography.\n\nIn the same essay, Broszat was extremely critical of Irving's handling of sources, accusing him of repeatedly seeking to distort the historical record in Hitler's favour. He complained that Irving focused too much on military events at the expense of the broader political context, and that he accepted Nazi claims at face value, such as accepting the claim that the Action T4 \"euthanasia\" program of the \"incurably sick\" began in September 1939 to free up hospital space for wounded German soldiers, when in fact it began in January 1939. Broszat criticized Irving's claim that one telephone note written by Himmler stating \"No liquidation\" with regard to a train convoy in November 1941 of German Jews passing through Berlin to Riga (whom the SS intended to have shot on arrival) was proof that Hitler did not want the Holocaust. Broszat argued that the \"No liquidation\" comment referred only to that train and was probably related to concerns that American reporters had been asking about the fate of German Jews deported to Eastern Europe.\n\nBroszat criticized Irving for accepting the \"fantastic\" claims of the SS \"Obergruppenführer\" Karl Wolff that he did not know about the Holocaust (Irving's argument was that if Wolff did not know about it, how could Hitler?), despite the fact that Wolff was convicted of war crimes in 1963 on the basis of documentary evidence implicating him in the Holocaust. Broszat also accused Irving of seeking to generate a highly misleading impression of a conference between Hitler and the Hungarian Regent, Admiral Miklós Horthy, in April 1943 by re-arranging the words to make Hitler appear less brutally antisemitic than the original notes showed.\n\nBroszat was a pioneer of \"Alltagsgeschichte\" (history of everyday life). He led the \"Bavaria Project\" between 1977 and 1983, a comprehensive look at \"Alltagsgeschichte\" in Bavaria between 1933 and 1945. The six-volume \"Bayern in der NS-Zeit\" (\"Bavaria in the National Socialist Era\") depicted actions such as refusal to give the Nazi salute as a form of resistance. The emphasis upon resistance in \"everyday life\" portrayed \"Widerstand\" (resistance) in shades of grey, noting that people who refused to behave as the Nazi regime wanted in one area often conformed in others. For example, the Bavarian peasants who did business with Jewish cattle dealers in the 1930s, despite the efforts of the Nazi regime to stop them, often expressed approval of the antisemitic laws.\n\nThrough his work on the Bavaria Project, Broszat formed the concept of \"Resistenz\" (immunity), which differs from resistance in the sense of \"Widerstand\". \"Resistenz\" referred to the ability of institutions such as the Wehrmacht, the Roman Catholic Church and the bureaucracy to enjoy \"immunity\" from the Nazis' claims to total power, and to continue functioning according to their traditional values, without having to challenge the regime's political monopoly. Broszat used the \"Resistenz\" concept to advance the view that at the local level, there was much continuity in Germany between the Weimar and Nazi eras.\n\nIn \"A Plea for a Historicization of National Socialism\", an essay published in \"Merkur\" in May 1985, Broszat argued that historians should approach Nazi Germany as they would any other period of history, without moralizing. Recommending an \"Alltagsgeschichte\" approach that would allow shades of gray by examining both the normality of everyday life and the barbarity of the regime, he wrote that \"not all those historically significant developments which occurred in Germany during the Nazi period merely served the regime's goals of inhuman and dictatorial domination\". Broszat used as an example the wide-ranging reform of the German social insurance system proposed in 1940 by the DAF, which he argued was in many ways the forerunner of the West German social insurance plan of 1957, with such features as pensions guaranteed by the state indexed to the level of GNP (which was not surprising given that many of the same people worked on both plans). \n\nBroszat's \"historicization\" concept was criticized by the Israeli historian Omer Bartov, who accused Broszat of being a German apologist and of seeking to diminish Jewish suffering. Bartov argued that Broszat was calling on German historians to show more empathy for their own history. But that empathy was never lacking, in Bartov's view. Rather, it was empathy for the victims that was lacking. Historians distanced themselves from the perpetrators, but they did not distance themselves from the German people, \"the (often complict) bystanders\". Showing empathy for the victims would \"block the option of empathy for oneself, creating thereby an unbearable psychological burden\". Against this, the German historian Rainer Zitelmann suggested that Broszat's approach was a fruitful one, arguing that just as not everything was evil in the Soviet Union, not everything was evil in Nazi Germany, and that the Nazi regime had accomplished many successful social reforms. Several other scholars supported Broszat's arguments, including the American historian John Lukacs (who said the process of historization had, in fact, begun over 30 years ago), the German philosopher Jürgen Habermas, the German historian Hans Mommsen, and the British historian Richard J. Evans. \n\nThe \"Historikerstreit\" (\"historians' dispute\") of 1986–1988 was triggered by an article the German historian Ernst Nolte wrote for the conservative newspaper \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" in June 1986: \"The past that will not pass\". Rather than being studied as any other historical period would, Nolte wrote, the Nazi era hung over Germany like a sword. Comparing Auschwitz to the Gulag, he suggested that the Holocaust had been a response to Hitler's fear of the Soviet Union. Although parts of Nolte's argument sounded similar to Broszat's, Broszat strongly criticized Nolte's views in an essay entitled \"Wo sich die Geister scheiden\" (\"Where the Roads Part\") in October 1986, also in \"Die Zeit\". He was particularly critical of an earlier claim of Nolte's that Chaim Weizmann, president of the World Zionist Organization during World War II, had effectively declared war on Germany in 1939, on behalf of world Jewry. Broszat wrote that Weizmann's letter to Neville Chamberlain promising the support of the Jewish Agency against Hitler was not a \"declaration of war\", nor did Weizmann have the legal power to declare war on anyone: \"These facts may be overlooked by a right-wing publicist with a dubious educational background but not by the college professor Ernst Nolte.\" He argued that Andreas Hillgruber had come close to being a Nazi apologist and that Nolte's arguments had, indeed (without any intention on his part), turned into apologetics. He ended his essay by arguing that, to ensure the German people a better future, they should not be persuaded to become less critical of their past.\n\nBroszat's call for the \"historicization\" of the Nazi era involved him in a vigorous debate with three Israeli historians in the latter half of the 1980s: Otto Dov Kulka, Dan Diner, and above all the Franco-Israeli historian Saul Friedländer. The debate between Broszat and Friedländer was conducted through a series of letters between 1987 until Broszat's death in 1989. In 1990 the Broszat-Friedländer correspondence was translated into English and published in \"Reworking the Past: Hitler, The Holocaust and the Historians' Debate\", edited by Peter Baldwin.\n\nBroszat married Alice Welter in 1953; the couple had three children.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "2004514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004514", "title": "Charring", "text": "Charring\n\nCharring is a chemical process of incomplete combustion of certain solids when subjected to high heat. Heat distillation removes water vapor and volatile organic compounds (syngas) from the matrix. The residual black carbon material is char, as distinguished from the lighter colored ash. By the action of heat, charring removes hydrogen and oxygen from the solid, so that the remaining char is composed primarily of carbon. Polymers like thermoset, or most solid organic compounds like wood or biological tissue, exhibit charring behaviour.\n\nCharring means partially burning so as to blacken the surface.\n\nCharring can result from naturally occurring processes like fire; it is also a deliberate and controlled reaction used in the manufacturing of certain products. The mechanism of charring is part of the normal burning of certain solid fuels like wood. During normal combustion, the volatile compounds created by charring are consumed at the flames within the fire or released to the atmosphere, while combustion of char can be seen as glowing red coals or embers which burn without the presence of flames.\n\nCoke and charcoal are both produced by charring, whether on an industrial scale or through normal combustion of coal or wood. Normal combustion consumes the char as well as the gases produced in its creation, while industrial processes seek to recover the purified char with minimal loss to combustion. This is accomplished by either burning the parent fuel (wood or coal) in a low-oxygen environment or by heating it to a high temperature without allowing combustion to occur. In industrial production of coke and charcoal the volatile compounds driven off during charring are often captured for use in other chemical processes.\n\nA \"coal burning\" blacksmith's forge actually produces the heat necessary for high-temperature metalworking by the continuous production and consumption of coke within a carefully managed fire. An inner ring of burning coke provides heat which converts the encircling coal into coke, which is then itself fed into the center of the fire to provide the required heat and to create more coke; coal itself is incapable of producing the heat required for some blacksmithing operations.\n\nCharring is an important process in the combustion ignition of solid fuels and in smouldering. In construction of heavy-timbered wood buildings the predictable formation of char is used to determine the fire rating of supporting timbers and is an important consideration in fire protection engineering. If a wood column is of large enough diameter, during a structure fire its exposed surface will be converted to char until the thickness of char provides sufficient insulation to prevent additional charring. This layer then serves to protect the remaining structurally sound core of wood, which can continue to carry the building loads if appropriately designed. \nCharring is also a technique used for wood preservation. In Japan this traditional technique is called \"yakisugi\" or \"shō sugi ban\".\n\nCharring had a special meaning under the common law of England. Under that system, the crime of arson required charring of a dwelling—actual damage to the fiber of the material from which the structure was built—and not mere \"scorching\" or damage to the surface, or to surface coverings such as carpets and wallpaper.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004516", "title": "Minam River", "text": "Minam River\n\nThe Minam River is a tributary of the Wallowa River, long, in northeastern Oregon in the United States. It drains a rugged wilderness area of the Wallowa Mountains northeast of La Grande.\n\nIt rises in the Wallowas in the Eagle Cap Wilderness of the Wallowa–Whitman National Forest, just south of the Wallowa–Union border approximately southeast of La Grande at Blue Lake. It flows generally northwest through the mountains along the Wallowa–Union county line. It joins the Wallowa from the south at the community of Minam near Oregon Route 82. Its headwaters include springs stemming from outflow from Minam Lake, also the source of the Lostine River.\n\nFrom its headwaters to the Eagle Cap Wilderness boundary downstream of Cougar Creek, a distance of , the Minam River was declared part of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System in 1988. Accessible mainly by United States Forest Service trails, the river basin supports diverse wildlife, including wolverine, bighorn sheep, elk, American black bear, and cougar.\n\nThe Minam, except for the lower , where the surrounds have been heavily logged and otherwise altered, is largely pristine. It and the Wenaha River are the two largest rivers in Oregon that are nearly pristine.\n\nFrom source to mouth, the named tributaries of the Minam River are Pop and Trail creeks, which enter from the left; Lowry Gulch, left; Wild Sheep Creek, right; Granite Gulch, right; Elk Creek, left; and Last Chance Gulch, right. Then Cap, Rock, and Lackey creeks, all from the left; Pole Creek, right, Pot Creek, left; North Minam River, right, and Little Pot and Jerry creeks, left.\n\nThen Threemile, Garwood, Whoopee, Chaparral, Wallowa, Horseheaven, and Horse Basin creeks, all from the right; the Little Minam River, left; Faun Creek, right, and Lobo and Eagle creeks, left. Then Murphy, Trout, Cougar, Gunderson, and Squaw creeks, all from the right.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004519", "title": "Boston (Hasidic dynasty)", "text": "Boston (Hasidic dynasty)\n\nBoston is a Hasidic sect, originally established in 1915 by Rabbi Pinchas David Horowitz. Following the custom of European Chassidic Courts, where the Rebbe was called after the name of his city, the Bostoner branch of Hasidic Judaism was named after Boston, Massachusetts. The most senior and well-known of the Bostoner Rebbes in contemporary times was Grand Rabbi Levi Yitzchak Horowitz, who died in December 2009.\n\nAmid a spectrum of notable accomplishments and \"firsts in America,\" Bostoner Hasidim claim to be skilled in applying ancient Jewish values in modern society, engaging in outreach to students, and providing tangible help for the sick and their families during crucial times of need. Bostoner Hasidim also pride themselves on their musical tradition.\n\nThe worldwide community of Bostoner Hasidism has headquarters in Brookline, Massachusetts and Har Nof, Israel, with additional branches in Beit Shemesh, Israel; Beitar Illit, West Bank; Flatbush, Brooklyn; Highland Park, New Jersey; Lawrence, Nassau County, New York; and Monsey, New York.\n\nGrand Rabbi Pinchas David Horowitz, the first Bostoner Rebbe, a scion of Shmelke of Nikolsburg and the Lelov dynasty, was born in Jerusalem in Ottoman Syria. He first arrived in Boston in 1915 from the Russian Empire, where he had gone to collect charity.\n\nShortly after his arrival, Rabbi Pinchas David was accepted as Rebbe by a group of followers he attracted from within the Boston Jewish community. However, in 1939, he left Boston and moved to Brooklyn where he opened the Bostoner beth midrash of Williamsburg, Brooklyn. After his death in 1941, his older son, Rav Moshe, succeeded him in New York, while his younger son, Levi Yitzchak Horowitz, moved back to Boston in 1943 and built the New England Chassidic Center.\n\nIn his lifetime, Reb Moshe founded the Bostoner beth midrash of Crown Heights, Brooklyn and the Bostoner beth midrash of Borough Park, Brooklyn. In 1985, upon the passing of Reb Moshe, his eldest son, Chaim Avrom Horowitz, succeeded him as Bostoner Rebbe of New York. In 1989, Reb Moshe's younger son, Pinchas Dovid, moved to Flatbush, Brooklyn to establish a community there. He eventually accepted the mantle of Bostoner Rebbe of Flatbush. In 2006, Rav Chaim Avrom moved to Beit Shemesh in Israel to establish a community there. He died in 2016 while visiting America for his granddaughter's wedding to the grandson of the Skverer and Rachmanstrifker Rebbes. He was succeeded by his sons, Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchak Horowitz of Lawrence, NY, And Rav Yisrael Yona Horowitz of Boro Park.\n\nIn the mid 1980s, Levi Yitzchak Horowitz established another Boston community in Har Nof, Jerusalem, and would spend half of the year in Boston and half of the year in Jerusalem. On Saturday, December 5, 2009 Levi Yitzchok Horowitz died in Jerusalem, survived by his three sons and two daughters. In his spiritual will, the title of Grand Rabbi of Boston was bestowed upon all three surviving sons. Pinchas Dovid Horowitz, the Chuster Rebbe of Borough Park, the oldest, serves as Bostoner Rebbe in New York; Mayer Alter Horowitz serves as Bostoner Rebbe in Har Nof; and Naftali Yehuda Horowitz, the youngest, serves as Bostoner Rebbe in Boston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004524", "title": "Reggie Sanders", "text": "Reggie Sanders\n\nReginald Laverne Sanders (born December 1, 1967) is a former right fielder in Major League Baseball. He batted and threw right-handed. Sanders was 23 years old when he made his major league debut on August 22, , after being selected in the seventh round of the amateur draft by the Cincinnati Reds. He attended Spartanburg Methodist College before beginning his pro career with the Rookie-level Billings Mustangs of the Pioneer League in . He also played professionally with the St. Louis Cardinals, Pittsburgh Pirates, Atlanta Braves, San Francisco Giants, San Diego Padres and Kansas City Royals, and was a member of the Arizona Diamondbacks' 2001 World Series championship over the New York Yankees. With the Cardinals, Sanders had a breakout of sorts during the 2005 National League Division Series against the San Diego Padres. In a three-game sweep of the Padres, Sanders had 10 runs batted in, a new record for a division series.\n\nSanders gained some notoriety during the 1994 season when Pedro Martínez hit him with a pitch to end his bid for a perfect game with one out in the eighth inning. Sanders responded by charging the mound and igniting a bench-clearing brawl. He was ridiculed by some in the press for believing that a pitcher would abandon an attempt at a perfect game to intentionally hit a batter.\n\nIn Game 1 of the 2005 NLCS Sanders hit a two run home run to give the Cardinals a two run lead, making it his seventh career postseason home run. However, the Cardinals would lose the series in six games, giving the Houston Astros their first NL pennant and trip to the World Series. \n\nOn June 10, , as a member of the Royals, Reggie hit his 300th home run. This made him the fifth member of Major League Baseball's 300-300 club, as he had stolen the 300th base of his career on May 1, and had gotten his 302nd career stolen base just a day earlier. He became the first player in history to join the club at his home stadium. Steve Finley of the San Francisco Giants joined the 300-300 club as its sixth member on June 14, four days after Sanders achieved the feat. Sanders hit 20 or more home runs in one season for five different National League teams. He hit at least 10 home runs in a season for every major league team he played for (seven in all).\n\nSanders missed the majority of the 2007 season due to an injury and became a free agent after the season.\n\nIn 64 postseason games, Sanders batted .195 (43-for-221) with 24 runs, 7 home runs, 25 RBI, 9 stolen bases and 26 walks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004525", "title": "Louise Harel", "text": "Louise Harel\n\nLouise Harel (born April 22, 1946) is a Quebec politician. In 2005 she served as interim leader of the Parti Québécois following the resignation of Bernard Landry. She was also interim leader of the opposition in the National Assembly of Quebec. She represented the riding of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve in the Montreal region, and its predecessors, from 1981 to 2008. She ran for Mayor of Montreal as the representative of the Vision Montreal municipal political party in the 2009 election, but was defeated by incumbent Gérald Tremblay. In the 2013 Montreal election, Harel supported federalist Marcel Côté for mayor but failed to be elected to her own council seat.\n\nHarel was born in Sainte-Thérèse-de-Blainville, Quebec. She graduated in 1977 from the Université de Montréal with a law degree and was admitted to the bar in 1978. She worked at the national secretariat, the Centre des services sociaux de Montréal and the Social Development Council of Metropolitan Montreal as a staff member. She has been a member of the Parti Québécois (PQ) since 1970 and was the president of the party in Montreal-Centre in the 1970s and the vice-president of the party province wide from 1979 to 1981.\n\nShe was first elected to the National Assembly in the 1981 election as the Member of the National Assembly (MNA) for Maisonneuve. In 1984, she was appointed Minister of Cultural Communities and Immigration by Quebec Premier René Lévesque, and served until the government's electoral defeat in the 1985 election. She retained her seat that year and in 1989 (when it was renamed Hochelaga-Maisonneuve), however, and served in opposition for the next five years.\n\nWhen the PQ returned to power in the 1994 election under the leadership of Jacques Parizeau, she returned to cabinet as Minister of Employment and minister responsible for immigration.\n\nAfter being re-elected in 1998, she later served as Minister of Municipal Affairs. During her tenure as minister, she tabled a bill which forced the merger of several small municipalities into one entity and affected all key cities such as Gatineau, Montreal, Quebec City, Trois-Rivières, Saguenay, Longueuil and Sherbrooke. The project, which was implemented in 2002 was met with mixed reviews and later become a key issue during the 2003 provincial elections.\n\nIn 2002, she became the first woman to serve as Speaker of the National Assembly, and remained in that capacity until the 2003 election, after which she joined the PQ on the opposition benches.\n\nHarel served as interim PQ leader and leader of the opposition until a leadership election chose André Boisclair as leader on November 15, 2005. She was not a candidate in the leadership election. She continued to serve as leader of the opposition until PQ leader André Boisclair won his seat in the National Assembly on August 14, 2006.\n\nShe was re-elected in the 2007 elections and named the PQ critic in social services and later she was also giving the portfolio of Status of Women. In October 2008, she announced that she will not seek another mandate.\n\nHarel ran for mayor of Montreal for the November 1, 2009 Montreal municipal election on behalf of the municipal Vision Montréal party. To that end, she studied to improve her poor English, a liability in a city where almost 20% the population is Anglophone. She has stated that the rise of \"ethnic neighbourhoods\" in the city is an undesirable situation, because she believes that Montrealers should feel part of the whole city, not just of their own borough. A central aspect of her campaign has been to centralize municipal government.\n\nShe came in second in the mayoralty race, and became city councillor for the district of Maisonneuve–Longue-Pointe. She announced she would remain leader of Vision Montréal and opposition leader at City Hall.\n\nIn early July 2013, Harel allied Vision Montreal with mayoral hopeful Marcel Côté. She opted against another mayoral run in her own right after recognizing that given her massive unpopularity among anglophones it was impossible for her to become mayor.\n\nAfter her own district was abolished, Harel ran for councillor in Sainte-Marie, the eastern section of Ville-Marie, but lost to Projet Montreal's Valérie Plante. Côté came a distant fourth in the mayoral race at the head of a new party called Coalition Montréal Marcel Côté.\n\nIn January 2014 Harel announced her intention to revive Vision Montreal but not to run for office again herself. She has also begun a weekly broadcast on Radio Ville-Marie.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004527", "title": "Blue Sky Mausoleum", "text": "Blue Sky Mausoleum\n\nBlue Sky Mausoleum, in Forest Lawn Cemetery in Buffalo, New York, is the recent completion of a 1928 design by Frank Lloyd Wright as a commercial cemetery project. The design was completed by a one-time apprentice to Wright, Anthony Puttnam.\n\nPuttnam was also responsible for the posthumous completion of Wright's Monona Terrace building in Madison, Wisconsin in modified form, and he has defended both projects against accusations that they are inauthentic.\n\nThe Mausoleum was the last of four projects Darwin D. Martin commissioned from Wright; the others were his residential complex, the Larkin Administration Building, and Graycliff, their summer house.\n"}
{"id": "2004529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004529", "title": "William Guilfoyle", "text": "William Guilfoyle\n\nWilliam Robert Guilfoyle (8 December 1840 – 25 June 1912) was a landscape gardener and botanist in Victoria, Australia, acknowledged as the architect of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Melbourne and was responsible for the design of many parks and gardens in Melbourne and regional Victoria.\n\nGuilfoyle was born in Chelsea, England, to Charlotte (née Delafosse) and Michael Guilfoyle (1809–1884), a landscape gardener and nurseryman. William was one of four children. The family migrated to Sydney in 1849 on board the \"Steadfast\". Later after arriving, Michael Guilfoyle established \"Guilfoyle's Exotic Nursery\" in Double Bay on land owned by Thomas Sutcliffe Mort. Here he was a leading supplier of the exotic Jacaranda tree using his own grafting methods.\n\nWilliam Guilfoyle was privately educated at Lyndhurst College, Glebe where he received botanical instruction by William Woolls, William Sharp MacLeay (1792–1865) and John MacGillivray (1821–1867), who all encouraged him to follow in his father's career. \nIn 1868 William Guilfoyle was appointed to the scientific staff of \"HMS Challenger\" that travelled around the Pacific Ocean. He recorded the voyage with a series of watercolour sketches and a detailed account in the \"Sydney Mail\". Guilfoyle settled in the Tweed River valley where he grew tobacco and sugar cane and first met the noted German botanist, Ferdinand von Mueller.\n\nIn April 1873 Mueller created the genus \"Guilfoylia\" and described William Guilfoyle as \"distinguished as a collector [who] evidenced great ardour\" and held high hopes for his collecting ability. Mueller's opinion changed when Guilfoyle was appointed to take his place as Director of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Melbourne on 21 July 1873. He accused Guilfoyle of being a \"nurseryman [with] no claims to scientific knowledge whatever\" and of getting the job due to being related to the wife of the responsible Minister. Mueller subsequently abolished \"Guilfoylia\" as part of the genus of \"Cadellia\" in his botanical census of 1882.\n\nMueller had adopted a scientific and educational approach to the Botanic Gardens, which had come in for criticism by influential Melburnians, who wanted a more aesthetic gardens for recreational use. William Guilfoyle set about creating the Gardens' world-famous \"picturesque\" landscape style. Over the next 35 years, Guilfoyle sculpted sweeping lawns, meandering paths and glittering lakes, creating a series of vistas offering a surprise around every corner. The swamp and lagoon were separated from the Yarra River under the direction of Carlo Catani (1852–1918), a civil engineer with the Public Works Department, allowing Guilfoyle to create the chain of ornamental lakes further adding to the beauty of the gardens.\n\nA feature of Guilfoyle's designs were the erection of over a dozen structures in the Gardens, including pavilions, summer houses, rotundas and 'temples'. These structures were generally located at junctions along the path system and took advantage of an attractive view. They were also practical buildings providing much needed shelter from Melbourne's hot summer sun and unpredictable rain. The Rose Pavilion, for instance, was used for band recitals during the summer months. Another, the \"Temple of the Winds\" monument was dedicated to Governor Charles La Trobe and erected by William Guilfoyle in the Botanical Gardens. The temple is composed of 10 columns instead of the normal 8 or 12 which are more easily divisible by the four points of the compass. According to historian Ken Duxbury, such structures added a picturesque charm to the landscape, highlighting points of visual interest along the trail of the paths and serving a role not dissimilar to the grottos, classical temples, follies, hermitages and pagodas along the circuit walks of the classic 'English Landscape School' gardens such as Stourhead. In addition to these structures, Guilfoyle added a series of large iron archways to highlight entry to the rest houses and to mark points of transition like 'doorways'. About ten of these archways still remain. He also established an extensive medicinal garden in the 1880s at the Gardens and opened a Museum of Economic Botany and Plant Products in 1892.\n\nOther public work included additional tree planting and landscaping of Kings Domain and refining the original garden design of Government House \"\"with many fine mature trees, including conifers, Australian rainforest species and deciduous trees, which are characteristic of the era and which also reflect Guilfoyle's personal taste\"\" (Victorian Heritage register). The Carlton Gardens, now a World Heritage Site, was landscaped for the Melbourne International Exhibition held in 1880 by several leading landscape designers and horticulturists including Clement Hodgkinson, William Sangster, Nicholas Bickford, and William Guilfoyle.\n\nThe gardens at Aspendale Racecourse were designed by William Guilfoyle.\n\nIn 1902 William Guilfoyle transformed the ornamental pond in the Treasury Gardens into a Japanese Garden, however the garden was demolished after the Second World War.\n\nShortly after completing the major landscaping of the Royal Botanic Gardens in Melbourne in 1879, Guilfoyle designed several Botanic gardens in regional Victorian towns:\n\n\nHe also undertook private landscape design work which included Nellie Melba's \"Coombe Cottage\" at Coldstream; Moritz Michaelis's \"Linden\" in Acland Street, \"Mawallok\" between Skipton and Beaufort for Philip and Mary Russell in 1909, St Kilda; Werribee Park for the Chirnside brothers; and two gardens near Birregurra, \"Mooleric\" – a four-acre (16,000 m²) private garden registered under the Heritage Act as being of state and national significance and \"Turkeith\" for Mr. And Mrs. Urquhart Ramsay.\n\nThe gardens around Parliament House, Melbourne were designed by Clement Hodgkinson and William Guilfoyle and feature the Parliament Gardens, a small triangular park which features the Coles Fountain and provides pleasant views of Parliament House, St Patrick's Cathedral, the Old Synagogue, the Old Baptist Church and the Eastern Hill Fire Station. They became a public reserve in 1934.\n\nThe Parliament House Gardens, designed by Guilfoyle, have restricted access and are used by parliamentarians and guests, and for official \"garden parties\". The garden contains The Federal Oak which was planted in 1890 by Sir Henry Parkes; a plaque recognising the efforts of Vida Goldstein; and an 'oriental-style' pavilion.\n\nGuilfoyle also wrote extensively for the \"Bankers' Magazine of Australasia\", the \"Victorian Naturalist\", and two guide books (1902, 1908) to the Melbourne Botanic Gardens. He also wrote on Australian plants, including \"Australian Plants Suitable for Gardens, Parks, Timber Reserves etc\" (1911). Guilfoyle retired from landscape design in 1909, living at \"Chatsworth\" in Jolimont Road, Jolimont and died on 25 June 1912.\n\n\"Eucalyptus guilfoylei\" was named in honour of Guilfoyle.\nThe Guilfoyle Lawn in the Melbourne Botanic Gardens and more recently in 2013 with the construction of an apartment tower opposite the Botanic Gardens in nearby Coventry Street SouthBank called The Guilfoyle\n\n"}
{"id": "2004531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004531", "title": "List of Neo Geo Pocket Color games", "text": "List of Neo Geo Pocket Color games\n\nThe Neo Geo Pocket Color is a handheld video game console released by SNK in 1999.\n\nThere are currently games on this list. Games that can be played on the monochrome Neo Geo Pocket are noted as backwards compatible.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004533", "title": "Werrington railway station", "text": "Werrington railway station\n\nWerrington railway station is located on the Main Western line, serving the Sydney suburb of Werrington. It is served by Sydney Trains T1 Western line services.\n\nWerrington station opened on 2 May 1868 as a private platform on the Main Western line for Henry Parkes named Parkes Platform. It opened for public use in 1878 and was renamed Werrington on 25 March 1893.\n\nIn June 2008, the station was upgraded with a new footbridge and lifts. It was fitted with solar panels at the same time, being the first CityRail station fitted. An upgrade to the commuter car park was completed in June 2010.\n\nOn 18 August 2011 a boy was hit by an express heading to city after dangerously crossing the tracks. The boy's leg and elbow were broken as well as sustaining serious injury. Transit officers arrived soon to call emergency services. The boy was then transported to the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children for treatment. It was revealed that the boy had survived by hiding in the 'lip' of the platform where the train had injured but not killed him.\n\nThe main array of 42 solar panels (7.35 kW capacity) appears to be no longer working since late 2012. As of August 2014, the system has not been repaired and no plans to fix it have been announced.\n\nBusways operates two routes via Werrington station:\n\nWerrington is served by one NightRide route approximately one kilometre from Werrington station on the Great Western Highway:\n\nWestern Sydney University runs a free Shuttle Bus every 10 minutes from the station to the Werrington North and South Campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004538", "title": "Kuno Becker", "text": "Kuno Becker\n\nEduardo Kuno Becker Paz (born January 14, 1978) professionally known as Kuno Becker, is a Mexican actor and film director who has worked in telenovelas, Mexican cinema, and U.S. cinema. He is best known for his portrayal of Ruben Berrizabal in \"Soñadoras\", and Santiago Muñez in the football film \"Goal!\" and its sequels.\n\nHe also starred as Drew Ramos on the American drama series \"Dallas\".\n\nAfter obtaining a scholarship, he traveled to Europe and began his studies at the Mozarteum in the city of Salzburg, Austria, where he spent several years taking violin lessons with Ruggiero Ricci.\n\nAt seventeen Kuno made the decision to set aside his career as a violinist, in order to pursue what he now considers his greatest passion, acting. He auditioned with more than 3,200 candidates and was accepted as a student at the Centro de Educación Artística (CEA) of Televisa.\n\nAt the age of nineteen, after two years of drama studies, he obtained his first role in the telenovela \"Para toda la vida\" (1996). He later participated in 1997, in the music video Corazón by Lynda Thomas, the telenovela \"Pueblo chico, infierno grande\" (with Verónica Castro and directed by José Alberto Castro), \"El Alma no Tiene Color\" (directed by Juan Osorio) \"Desencuentro\" (directed by Ernesto Alonso), \"Rencor Apasionado\" (directed by Lucero Suárez), \"Camila\" (directed by Angelli Nesma) and \"Soñadoras\" his first lead and breakthrough role. In April 2000 Becker concluded shooting the telenovela \"Mujeres Engañadas\".\n\nIn addition to his work in television, Becker has participated in a couple theatre productions. His latest theatre production was in 2008 when he starred in and produced the critically acclaimed \"The Pillowman\" written by Martin McDonagh.\n\nIn cinema he provided the voice of Cale, Tobias and Lightning McQueen for the Spanish-dubbing of animated films \"Titan A.E.\", \"The 3 Wise Men\" and Disney's Cars. He also appeared in the 1997 film \"La Primera Noche\". In 2002 Becker starred in the film \"La Hija del caníbal\" (\"Lucía, Lucía\") opposite the Argentine actress Cecilia Roth. Later he starred opposite Antonio Banderas and Oscar winner Emma Thompson in the drama-thriller Imagining Argentina. Becker also starred in the historical Kazakhstani epic \"Nomad\" filmed in 2004. The production took two years to make and it hit screens in 2006. He also starred in ESL: English as a Second Language with Maria Conchita Alonso and Soledad St. Hilaire released in 2005. He also landed the lead role of Santiago Munez in the Disney football feature films \"Goal!\" in 2005 and \"\" in 2007 which became the most well known football movies in the world. He also appeared briefly in \"\" in 2009.\n\nHis most recent film projects today are \"El día de la unión\", \"Ánima\", \"108 Costuras\", \"Spoken Word\", \"La Ultima Muerte\", \"Cabeza de Buda\" and \"Panic 5 Bravo\".\n\nHe worked on his debut screenplay for the Mexican film \"Espacio Interior\", which is based on the earthquake that hit Mexico in 1985. He also portrayed Esteban Navarro, a recurring antagonist, in the tenth season of \"\".\n\nHe had 3 movies as director, writer an producer \"Panic 5 Bravo\", \"El día de la unión\" and Ánima.\n\"El día de la unión\" was nominated to 3 Arieles (Mexican academy awards)\n\n"}
{"id": "2004541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004541", "title": "George Perazich", "text": "George Perazich\n\nGeorge Nikolas Perazich (20 April 1905 – 26 May 1999) was born in the Principality of Montenegro.\n\nMoving to the United States in 1927 at the age of 22, Perazich attended the University of California Engineering School for five years and also attended Wharton School of Finance in Pennsylvania. Perazich married his wife Amelia in 1933. Apart from his maternal language he spoke and wrote English and Italian and had a reading knowledge of Spanish, French and Russian. Perazich had been active the American Polish Labor Council as Business manager of its publication \"The Outlook\". Perazich became a naturalized American citizen in 1942.\n\nDuring World War II, Perazich worked for the U.S. State Department Foreign Economic Administration and, in November 1943, the Yugoslav section of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA). Perazich listed David Weintraub of the United States Department of State, and a Soviet spy, as a reference when applying for the UNRRA job. Several items on the application for the United Nations appear inconsistent with what FBI investigators came up with. Perazich claimed to have graduated from the Naval Academy in Yugoslavia; the investigation found he entered the University of California on credentials of the Royal Nautical School in Kantor, Czechoslovakia, for example. \nIn 1944, Perazich was assigned to the Balkans as Director of Displaced Persons for UNRRA. Later, Perazich worked for the Industrial Rehabilitation Division of the Yugoslavian Mission.\n"}
{"id": "2004545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004545", "title": "Kingswood railway station, Sydney", "text": "Kingswood railway station, Sydney\n\nKingswood railway station is located on the Main Western line, serving the Sydney suburb of Kingswood. It is served by Sydney Trains T1 Western line services.\n\nKingswood station opened on 1 September 1887 as Cross Roads, being renamed Kingswood on 3 October 1888.\n\nKingswood station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2004549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004549", "title": "Lagrime di San Pietro", "text": "Lagrime di San Pietro\n\nThe Lagrime di San Pietro (Italian: \"Saint Peter's Tears\") is a cycle of 20 madrigals and a concluding motet by the late Renaissance composer Orlande de Lassus (Roland de Lassus). Written in 1594 for seven voices, it is structured as three sequences of seven compositions. The \"Lagrime\" was to be Lassus’ last composition: he dedicated it to Pope Clement VIII on May 24, 1594, three weeks before his death, and it was published in Munich the next year. \n\nThe \"Lagrime\" sets 20 poems by the Italian poet Luigi Tansillo (1510–1568) depicting the stages of grief experienced by St. Peter after his denial of Christ, and his memory of Christ's admonition (). The settings by Lassus are for seven voices, and numerical symbolism plays a part throughout: the seven voices represent the seven sorrows of the Virgin Mary; in addition many of the madrigals are in seven sections. The total number of pieces in the set, 21, represents seven times the number of members of the trinity.\n\nIn addition, Lassus only sets seven of the eight church modes (modes I through VII), leaving mode VIII entirely out. The madrigals are grouped by successive mode, with madrigals 1 through 4 in mode I, 5 to 8 in mode II, 9 to 12 in modes III and IV, 13 to 15 in mode V, 16 to 18 in mode VI, 19 and 20 in mode VII, and the closing motet based on the \"tonus peregrinus\", entirely outside the Renaissance scheme of the eight church modes. According to David Crook, writing in his 1994 book on the Lassus Magnificat settings:\n\nMusically, the \"Lagrime\" are a summation of Lassus's style throughout his career, and he himself indicated in his dedication that they were recently composed. Within the cycle he uses techniques he learned early in his career as a composer of secular madrigals; chromaticism related to his much earlier musica reservata masterpiece \"Prophetiae Sibyllarum\"; and the concise, refined, almost austere language he developed late in his career, related to the Palestrina style, in which no note is superfluous. The music sets the text syllabically, with careful regard for diction, and contains pauses where a speaker would naturally stop for breath; and it is entirely through-composed, without repetition or redundancy.\n\nThe final piece in the set is not a madrigal, but rather a Latin motet: \"Vide homo, quae pro te patior\" (Behold, man, how I suffer for you). Here the crucified Christ, speaking in the first person, confronts Peter's betrayal and indeed the sinfulness of all mankind.\n\nThe \"Lagrime di San Pietro\" is probably the most famous set of \"madrigali spirituali\" ever written. Although sacred madrigals were a small subset of the total output of madrigals, this set by Lassus is often considered by scholars to be one of the highest achievements of Renaissance polyphony, and appeared at the end of an age: within 10 years of its composition, the traditional \"stile antico\" had been displaced in many centers by new early Baroque forms such as monody and the sacred concerto for few voices and basso continuo. Of the work, musicologist Alfred Einstein wrote in his 1949 opus \"The Italian Madrigal\": \"it is ... a spiritual counterpart to the cycles from the great epics of Ariosto and Tasso, an old man's work, comparable in its artistry, its dimensions, its asceticism only to the \"Musical Offering\" and the \"Art of Fugue\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004550", "title": "Court of Appeal of New Zealand", "text": "Court of Appeal of New Zealand\n\nThe Court of Appeal of New Zealand is the principal intermediate appellate court of New Zealand. It is also the final appellate court for a number of matters. In practice, most appeals are resolved at this intermediate appellate level, rather than in the Supreme Court. The Court of Appeal has existed as a separate court since 1862 but, until 1957, it was composed of judges of the High Court sitting periodically in panels. In 1957 the Court of Appeal was reconstituted as a permanent court separate from the High Court. It is located in Wellington.\n\nThe president and nine other permanent appellate judges constitute the full-time working membership of the Court of Appeal.\n\nThe court sits in panels of five judges and three judges, depending on the nature and wider significance of the particular case. A considerable number of three-judge cases are heard by Divisional Courts consisting of one permanent Court of Appeal judge and two High Court judges seconded for that purpose.\n\nIn the main, criminal appeals will be allocated to a Divisional Court unless the president otherwise directs. This recognises the insights which judges with current trial experience bring to criminal appeals. Counsel for the appellant or respondent may request a direction that a particular appeal be instead allocated to a Permanent Court or a Full Court.\n\nLonger civil appeals or areas that raise legal issues of public significance will usually be allocated to a Permanent Court. Appeals from decisions of associate judges of the High Court and shorter civil appeals that raise mainly factual issues, usually will be allocated to a Divisional Court unless the president otherwise directs. Again counsel for the appellant or respondent may request a direction that a particular appeal be allocated to a Divisional Court, a Permanent Court, or a Full Court.\n\nThe president will also determine whether an appeal (criminal or civil) is of sufficient significance to warrant the consideration of a Full Court of five members. The president will, where appropriate, consult with other permanent judges. Such a decision typically is made only once or twice a year.\n\nThe Court of Appeal deals with civil and criminal appeals from matters heard in the High Court, and serious criminal charges from the District Court. Matters appealed to the High Court from the District Court and certain tribunals can be taken to the Court of Appeal with leave, if a second appeal is warranted. The court may also grant leave to hear appeals against pre-trial rulings in criminal cases, and appeals on questions of law from the Employment Court. The court sits as a Permanent Court in Wellington in “sessions” lasting three weeks. These are followed by two “circuit” weeks, in which members of the Permanent Court either sit in Divisional Courts or else write judgments. Divisional Courts are conducted on circuit – in the regions. There are approximately forty Divisional Court weeks, divided into twenty in Auckland, sixteen in Wellington, two or three weeks in Christchurch and one week in Dunedin. The court maintains a hearing centre in Auckland. Appeals from the upper North Island are generally heard there, and appeals from the South Island are generally heard in Christchurch or Dunedin. But where urgency dictates, a divisional appeal will be heard in Wellington. On occasion the Permanent Court sits in Auckland.\n\nThe Court of Appeal (Civil) Rules 2005 set out the procedural requirements for pursuing civil appeals. The Court of Appeal has jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals from any judgment, decree or order of the High Court. Where the appeal to the Court of Appeal is itself an appeal from another court to the High Court, a further appeal to the Court of Appeal is available only if leave to appeal is given by the High Court or, where leave is refused by the High Court, by the Court of Appeal. Appeals on questions of law from the Employment Court can, with the leave of the Court of Appeal, be brought to the Court of Appeal.\n\nAny person convicted in the High Court or, on more serious charges, in the District Court may appeal to the Court of Appeal against the conviction, or the sentence passed on conviction, or both. The court has jurisdiction to hear appeals against pre-trial rulings in criminal cases. There is a right of appeal with respect to High Court decisions granting or refusing bail or in respect of conditions of bail.\n\nThe Court of Appeal (Criminal) Rules 2001 set out the procedural requirements for pursuing criminal appeals in the Court of Appeal. The Crimes Act 1961 and Criminal Procedure Act 2011 also contain both substantive and procedural provisions relevant to criminal appeals to the Court of Appeal.\n\nAn appeal or application for leave to appeal must be dealt with by way of a hearing involving oral submissions unless the judge or court making the decision on the mode of hearing determines that the appeal or application can be fairly dealt with on the papers.\n\nIf the appellant is in custody he or she is not entitled to be present at a hearing involving oral submissions unless there is a legislative right to be present, or the Court of Appeal grants leave. Audio-visual links are often used by the court.\n\nThe current judges of the Court of Appeal are:\n\nThe current Registrar of the Court is Maryanne McKennie.\n\nThe Court of Appeal has existed since 1862. Before the establishment of the Court of Appeal, appeals from High Court (then known as the Supreme Court) decisions were heard by the governor and members of the Executive Council of New Zealand. This was a temporary measure until there were sufficient judges to constitute a court of appeal. By 1860, the High Court bench was large enough to sustain a court of appeal, but not large enough to provide a permanent court of appeal. In 1862 the Court of Appeal was consisted of judges of the High Court on a rotating basis. It initially sat in Christchurch and Dunedin, and then moved to Wellington when that city became capital in 1865. The increase in the court’s workload and the practical difficulties of High Court judges making themselves available for appellate work, resulted in the call for a permanent court of appeal. In 1957 the permanent Court of Appeal was established in Wellington with three specifically appointed Court of Appeal judges. Before the Supreme Court was established, the chief justice was a member of the Court of Appeal by virtue of office, but the permanent complement of the court comprised the president and six permanent members. Today the court consists of the president and nine other judges. The number of permanent Court members has risen as the volume and complexity of litigation and appeals have increased. There are now ten permanent members. The Court of Appeal delivered 628 judgments in 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004552", "title": "Acerenza", "text": "Acerenza\n\nAcerenza (Lucano: ) is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Potenza, in the Southern Italian region of Basilicata.\n\nWith its strategic position above sea-level, Acerenza has been sacked by a series of invaders.\n\nThe town, then known as Aceruntia, Acheruntia or Acherontia, was conquered by the Romans in 318 BC. Later, it was taken by the Ostrogoths (it was mentioned as an important fortress during the Gothic Wars) and then the Lombards, who fortified the town. In 788 Charlemagne ordered that its walls be destroyed. In 1041, after a period in which it was fought over by the Principality of Salerno and the Byzantine Empire, it was conquered again by the Norman Robert Guiscard.\n\nThe town has been the see of an archbishop since at least 499, when a Justus is known. According to legend, the town's first bishop was appointed by St. Peter.\n\nFrom the 16th century, Acerenza was held under the feudal lordship of the Marquess of Galatone, that family being granted the title Duke of Acerenza on 12 April 1593 by Philip II of Spain. Through marriage the duchy of Acerenza was inherited by the family of the Prince Belmonte, in whose line the title has descended to the present day.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2004554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004554", "title": "Sea of Faces", "text": "Sea of Faces\n\nSea of Faces is the second full-length album released by Christian rock group Kutless, released through BEC Records in 2004. The song \"Treason\" was once the No. 1 song on ChristianRock.net, and Sea of Faces in the Top 5. The album reached No. 97 on the \"Billboard\" 200, the first time the band was on that chart, and No. 3 on the \"Billboard\" Top Christian Albums, the first top ten on this chart. \"All of the Words\" was featured in an episode of Scrubs titled \"My Bright Idea\". It is the first album to feature bassist Kyle Zeigler.\n\n\nThe video of \"Not What You See\" consists of the band playing on a stage in a white room. Powder is on the stage which adds to the visual of the band jumping up and down. The video appears to be in black and white but actually has some color to it.\n\nThe video of \"Sea of Faces\" shows the band playing in a dark room much like their video for \"Run\". Also shows is Jon Micah Sumrall walking along the streets along with many other different people.\n\nOn 2005, the album was nominated for a Dove Award for Rock Album of the Year at the 36th GMA Dove Awards.\n"}
{"id": "2004558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004558", "title": "Legislative Council of Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Legislative Council of Trinidad and Tobago\n\nThe Legislative Council of Trinidad and Tobago served as an advisory commission to the Governor in British-ruled Trinidad and Tobago, between 1925 and independence in 1962. The Legislative Council consisted of a mixture of appointed and elected members. Initially the Council consisted of 13 \"unofficial\" members (those who were not civil servants serving \"ex officio\" in the Council), seven elected and six appointed, to 31 members, 24 of whom were elected. Over time the balance between elected members and appointed members changed. In 1956 the Council consisted of 24 elected and 7 appointed unofficial members.\n\nFrom 1950 the Council served as a unicameral legislature.\n\nBetween 1797 and 1925 Trinidad was directly ruled from Britain as a crown colony with no elected representation. This was unlike the situation in the rest of the British West Indies where an elected Assembly was the norm. While there was a Council of Advice, which was later replaced by a Council of Government and finally by an Executive and Legislative Council, these were purely advisory bodies and had no elected representation. Following an investigative visit to the Caribbean by Major E. F. L. Wood (Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies) between December 13, 1921 and February 14, 1922, a recommendation was made to include elected members.\n\nThe first elections to the Legislative Council were held in 1925. Voting rights were based on property or income qualifications. The colony was divided into seven constituencies:\n"}
{"id": "2004560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004560", "title": "Panic! (video game)", "text": "Panic! (video game)\n\nPanic! (known as in Japan) is a puzzle point and click video game developed by Sega and Office I and published by Sega in Japan and Data East USA in North America for the Sega CD, in collaboration with the Theatrical Group WAHAHA Hompo. It was released on April 23, 1993 in Japan, localized to North America in 1994, and later released for the PlayStation 2 in Japan on August 8, 2002. The game involves pressing numerous buttons in order to transverse a young boy, called Slap, or his dog, called Stick, through a complex labyrinth. It is one of the few Sega CD games that supports the Sega Mega Mouse.\n\nDuring the intro, the game explains that a virus has infected the world's computer systems. Slap and his dog Stick (who has been sucked into his TV) must carry an antidote to the central computer to fix it. To this end, Slap and Stick must traverse a grid of levels, pushing buttons to advance.\n\nEach level is presented as a new area with a mechanical device, and a set of buttons to press. Each button causes an animation and/or teleports Slap to another room. Sometimes the buttons are booby-trapped and cause the destruction of a variety of monuments. The grid also features a few game overs on the grid, marked by flashing skulls on the map. The buttons themselves have no indication on what they do when pressed. It is possible to backtrack into previous levels, and buttons once pressed are not marked, unless they were booby-trapped.\n\nTwo stages were removed for the North American release: Level 2-B, a scene with a cigarette machine, and Level 9-B, featuring a Japanese typewriter. The level 12-D sends the player to the Japanese Mega-CD BIOS screen, but this scene was not changed in the North American version and still showed the Japanese BIOS screen instead of the American one.\n\nThe four reviewers of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" noted that \"Panic!\" is not actually a game, but opined that it is nonetheless very original and enjoyable for a while, though all but one of them also felt it gets boring fairly quickly. They particularly enjoyed the high quality animations and often \"sick\" sense of humor, and gave it a score of 5.75 out of 10. \"GamePro\" panned the game, chiefly for its trial-and-error gameplay which requires players to watch many \"pointless\" scenes. They added, \"You might feel differently if there were at least great jokes coming from the switches, but the humor is mostly simplistic cartoons with childish graphics, like basic versions of animations from \"Monty Python\".\" They gave \"Panic!\" a 2.0 out of 5 for graphics, 4.0 for sound, and 1.0 for both control and funfactor, making it one of only 12 games in \"GamePro\" history to earn a score of 1.0 or lower. \"Game Players\" magazine described the game as being made \"for people on drugs, by people on drugs.\"\n\nRichard Leadbetter, editor of \"Mean Machines Sega\", awarded the Japanese version of the game a score of 90%.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Sega CD version of the game, rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"Panic wants to defy description and critical analysis. [...] In a word, weird.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2004567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004567", "title": "Cyprus Today", "text": "Cyprus Today\n\nCyprus Today is the leading English-language newspaper in North Cyprus. Founded on 12 October 1991, it is bi-weekly and has a multi-national staff. The newspaper contains up-to-date stories from North and South Cyprus as well as international news, entertainment and sport.\n\nThe newspaper's editor is Gill Fraser.\n"}
{"id": "2004569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004569", "title": "Reptar", "text": "Reptar\n\nReptar is a fictional character from the American animated television series \"Rugrats\". He is a green \"T. rex\" (and sometimes appears in red-violet and lilac) with rounded, blue spike-like appendages on his back, which intentionally causes him to resemble and spoof Godzilla.\n\nReptar is portrayed as being a fictional character in the \"Rugrats\" universe idolized by a majority of the children featured in the series, particularly Tommy Pickles and his friends. A gigantic green, irradiated \"Tyrannosaurus rex\", Reptar's popularity as a character is noticeably akin to that possessed by Mickey Mouse, although his role is similar to Godzilla. Most notably seen in the merchandise spawned from his character as seen in the program owned by the babies and in the numerous forms of entertainment which he has inspired, such as an amusement park and an ice show (as featured in the episode \"Reptar on Ice\"). \nHe was first discovered by Tommy who convinced his friends to sneak out of a movie featuring the Dummi Bears to see the Reptar movie playing in another part of the theatre. After reuniting with their parents the adults figured out that the babies loved the film dinosaur and made a point of exposing them to it, including taking them to the Reptar on Ice show. In episodes where he is not featured as a film character, he most commonly appears in merchandising owned by the characters such as breakfast cereals and stuffed dolls, and or may often make minor appearances in movies showcased on the Pickles family's television screen. He has inspired products constructed by Stu Pickles himself most notably the Reptar Wagon, and has even made a name for himself as an icon throughout popular culture in the real world as well.\n\nReptar appeared in \"The Rugrats Movie\" film as a wagon built by Tommy's father Stu Pickles. The Reptar Wagon was no ordinary wagon. It was made like a high-tech car that can do various things such as talk and turn into a boat (Aqua Reptar) when in water, and has fire breath. The Rugrats took it along with them on a journey to the \"hopsical\" to return Tommy's newborn brother Dil, but they wind up getting lost in the forest. In this appearance, the Reptar wagon is voiced by Levi Curl and rapper Busta Rhymes of Flipmode Squad.\n\nHe had a more important role as a giant robot in \"\", when Stu once again built a robotic likeness of the character. The robot's head fell off twice in the film, although Stu fixed it the first time for the play. The Rugrats also took it to the church to stop the wedding.\n\nThe Reptar Wagon is seen in the background in \"Rugrats Go Wild\" near the beginning of the film in the Pickles' backyard. Unlike in the previous films, neither Reptar nor the wagon have any relevance to the plot.\n\nThe Reptar Wagon appeared in several episodes of \"Rugrats\" following the release of \"The Rugrats Movie\" once again voiced by Busta Rhymes. However, the wagon's voice was actually re-used recordings from the film. The Reptar Wagon is rarely seen in the later episodes.\n\nRugrats Runaway Reptar were a collection of several different Suspended Family Coasters designed by Vekoma, which debuted in 2001 at Kings Island. It was the first inverted coaster designed specifically for children. The years 2002 and 2003 saw the coaster open at Dreamworld and Carowinds, respectively. The rides have since been renamed and rethemed.\n\nRunaway Reptar was once the name of Woodstock's Express at California's Great America. This ride is a traditional steel roller coaster for families.\n"}
{"id": "2004582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004582", "title": "American League East", "text": "American League East\n\nThe American League East is one of Major League Baseball (MLB)'s six divisions (an East, Central, and West division for each of the two leagues). This division was created before the start of the season along with the American League West division. Before that time the American League (AL) had existed as a single league of 10 teams.\n\nFour of its five teams are located in the Eastern United States, with the other in Central Canada. It is currently the only division to contain a non-American team. At the end of the MLB season, the team with the best record in the division earns one of the American League's five playoff spots. The most recent team to win this division was the New York Yankees in 2019.\n\nWriters have long posited that the American League East is the toughest division in MLB; during its 50-year existence, an East division team has gone on to play in the World Series 27 times, and 16 of those teams have been crowned World Series champions. Since the season when the wild-card playoff berth was introduced, the AL East has produced 20 of the 31 wild-card teams for the American League (the West division seven, and the Central division five).\n\nWhen the Major Leagues split into divisions for the 1969 season, the American League, unlike the National League, split its 12 teams strictly on geography. The six teams located in the Eastern Time Zone were placed in the East division, and the other six were placed in the West division.\n\nIn September 1971, American League owners approved the move of the second Washington Senators franchise to Arlington, Texas to become the Texas Rangers. The owners then debated whether the Chicago White Sox or Milwaukee Brewers should move to the East division for 1972, with the Rangers moving to the West. The White Sox requested they be moved to the East, stating they were an original American League franchise and wanted to play more games against other old-line A.L. teams, five of which were in the East.\n\nThe Oakland Athletics objected to moving the White Sox to the East; owner Charlie Finley was a Chicago native who wanted to continue to make three trips per season with his club to the Windy City. The Minnesota Twins went a step farther and objected to switching either the White Sox or Brewers. The Twins wanted to keep nearby Chicago and Milwaukee as division rivals, citing the National League's lack of geographic accuracy in forming its divisions as a reason why the Rangers should not have been shifted out of the East. The Twins also noted the National Football League's Dallas Cowboys played in the NFC East.\n\nThe White Sox' pleas fell on deaf ears, and the Brewers, who began as the Seattle Pilots in 1969, were moved to the East.\n\n\n\n\n‡ – In 1978, the New York Yankees ended up in a tie with the Boston Red Sox for the division championship, and won a 1-game playoff against Boston.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> – Due to the players' strike, the season was split. New York won the first half and defeated second-half champion Milwaukee (62–45) in the postseason.\n\n§ – Due to the 1994 baseball strike starting August 12, no official winner was awarded. New York was leading at the strike.\n\n†† – The Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees finished the 2005 season tied for first place with identical records. New York won the season series against Boston and was awarded the tie-breaker; Boston was awarded the wild card berth. Had a team from another division won the wild card, a one-game playoff would have decided the division champion.\n\nThe Cleveland Indians were the only team to not win the AL East before the 1994 division realignment.\n\nSince the advent of the Wild Card, AL East teams have faced each other in the ALCS 5 times and the ALDS twice.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> – Starting with the 2012 season, there are two Wild Card winners in each league. The qualifiers play a single-game playoff to determine who will face the top-seeded team in the American League Division Series.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> In , the Texas Rangers and the Tampa Bay Rays finished the season with the identical records of 91–71. A one-game playoff was held and the Rays won it 5–2 over the Rangers to capture the second Wild Card berth.\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> In , the Toronto Blue Jays and the Baltimore Orioles finished the season with the identical records of 89–73. However, the Blue Jays won the right to host the Wild Card Game by virtue of their 10–9 regular-season record against the Orioles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004590", "title": "The Arms of Orion", "text": "The Arms of Orion\n\n\"The Arms of Orion\" is a slow, romantic duet written and performed by Sheena Easton and Prince from the 1989 \"Batman\" soundtrack, the album's third single.\n\n\"The Arms of Orion\" is a ballad that is accompanied mainly by the piano. Synthesizers also play a strong role throughout the song, programmed to emulate a string section. The track also uses a subdued drum machine loop, and samples of rain and thunder. The lyrics allude to the constellation of Orion. Prince had to surrender all publishing rights to the songs on the \"Batman\" album including \"The Arms of Orion\" to Warner Bros. as part of the deal to compose, perform, and produce the soundtrack.\n\n7-inch single\n\n12-inch single\n"}
{"id": "2004591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004591", "title": "Twin-screw steamer", "text": "Twin-screw steamer\n\nA twin-screw steamer (or steamship) (TSS) is a steam-powered vessel propelled by two screw propellers, one on either side of the plane of the keel.\n\nAll propellers produce a transverse thrust, also called screwing effect or starting bias, which gives a tendency for end of ship to move sideways. In a twin-screw ships the port propeller is usually left-handed and the starboard right handed to cancel out the transverse thrust thus avoiding propeller walk.\n"}
{"id": "2004593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004593", "title": "The Misanthrope (album)", "text": "The Misanthrope (album)\n\nThe Misanthrope is the debut EP from melodic death metal band Darkest Hour. It was released in 1996 on the defunct label Death Truck Records. It features more hardcore orientated metalcore sound than their recent works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004634", "title": "Simbhoonath Capildeo", "text": "Simbhoonath Capildeo\n\nSimbhoonath Capildeo (; born 1914) was a prominent lawyer and politician in Trinidad and Tobago. He was the elder brother of Rudranath Capildeo and uncle of Nobel laureate Sir Vidia \"V. S.\" Naipaul and Shiva Naipaul. Capildeo was one of the founding members of the Democratic Labour Party and a member of parliament from 1956 to 1966, becoming known as \"the Lion of the Legislative Council\". He served as the Leader of the Opposition in 1956. Capildeo was also an important leader of the Hindu community in Trinidad and played in role in the foundation of the Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha and the Bhadase Sagan Maraj. In 1989 he was awarded the Chaconia Gold Medal by the Trinidad and Tobago government, honoring his service to the country.\n\nHis father, Pundit Capildeo Dubey, an immigrant from the village of Mahadeva Dubey, Somra, Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, India, built Anand Bhavan (the \"Lion House\") on the Main Road in Chaguanas. The Lion House is arguably the most famous architectural icon representing the Indian heritage of Trinidad and Tobago. Pundit died on a trip to India in 1926, leaving Simbhoonath in the role of family patriarch at the age of 12. His mother, Soogee Capildeo, guided him, but Simbhoonath was an autodidact. His nephew, V.S. Naipaul, wrote about Simbhoonath's love for books in The Mystic Masseur. In his 9-line biographical sketch in the Indian Centenary Review (1845–1945) his hobby is listed as \"Reading\".\n\nCapildeo studied Hindustani and Sanskrit and became a local expert on Hinduism, and he also explored the philosophers of Western Civilization. He rapidly assumed intellectual leadership of the local Hindu society and in 1928 began creating the modern formal structure of Hindu society in Trinidad and Tobago. He was also the Secretary General of the Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha, preceding Satnarayan Maharaj.\n\nSimbhoonath was married to Indradai Capildeo (\"née\" Ramoutar) and was the father of one daughter, Sita, born in 1936, and two sons: Devendranath, born in 1938, and Surendranath, born in 1940. Surendranath, also a lawyer, was the only child who followed his father into local politics: he served as a senator of the United National Congress (UNC) party in the early 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004641", "title": "Tin Machine (album)", "text": "Tin Machine (album)\n\nTin Machine is the debut album by Anglo-American hard rock band Tin Machine. It was originally released in May 1989, on the label EMI. The band was the latest venture of David Bowie, inspired by sessions with guitarist Reeves Gabrels. Drummer Hunt Sales and bassist Tony Fox Sales formed the rest of the band, with \"fifth member\" Kevin Armstrong providing rhythm guitar and Hammond organ.\n\nThe project was intended as a back-to-basics album by Bowie, with a hard rock sound and simple production, as opposed to his past two solo albums. Unlike previous Bowie bands (such as the Spiders from Mars), Tin Machine acted as a democratic unit.\n\nThe band prepared some demos in LA before moving to Mountain Studios in Switzerland and then on to Montreal and then finally to Nassau. The band did not have much luck recording in Nassau, finding it hard to record in the midst of the \"coke and poverty and crack,\" which partly inspired the album track \"Crack City.\" Bowie also claimed his own cocaine-addled past in the 1970s as an inspiration for the track. The songs on the album tended to stick to topics such as drugs and urban decay. All songs were a group effort, and the band recorded 35 songs in just six weeks. In 2017, Gabrels said that the album \"could have been a double album\" given the amount of material recorded (but not released) by the band during this period.\n\nThe first song the band wrote and recorded was \"Heaven's in Here\", which they wrote from scratch and recorded in their first 30 hours together. They followed up by recording a cover of John Lennon's \"Working Class Hero\" (one of Bowie's favorite Lennon songs) and Roxy Music's \"If There Is Something\", though the latter wouldn't appear until the second Tin Machine album in 1991.\n\nThe tracks on the album were recorded raw and live with no overdubs to capture the energy of the band. The band urged Bowie to avoid re-writing his lyrics: \"They were there all the time saying, 'Don't wimp out,' sing like you wrote it. Stand by it. I have done and frequently do censor myself in terms of lyrics. I say one thing and then I think, 'Ah maybe I'll just take the edge off that a bit.\" He elaborated, \"We wanted to come out of the box with energy, the energy we felt when we were writing and playing. There's very, very little over-dubbing on [the album]. For us [it] is our live sound.\" There were no demos made for the album; Gabrels said \"Basically the album is the demo.\"\n\nBowie enjoyed making the album, saying \"I'm so up on this I want to go and start recording the next album tomorrow.\" Stylistically, he felt that the album was a continuation from \"Scary Monsters\": \"It's almost dismissive of the last three albums I've done. Getting back on course, you could say.\"\n\nGabrels would later describe the songs on the album as the band \"screaming at the world\", and Tony Sales, bassist for the band, described the band's approach to the music they created by saying:\nAs the band finished the album, Bowie was sure the band would continue. He said, \"There'll be another two albums at least. Oh, yes, this will go for a while. While we're all enjoying playing with each other so much, why not?\"\n\nInstead of making music videos for each single from the album, Tin Machine chose to release a single 13-minute long megamix video for the album, \"created in opposition to expectation.\" The video was directed by Julien Temple, who had previously worked with Bowie on videos and releases such as \"Jazzin' for Blue Jean\" (1984), \"Absolute Beginners (1986), and \"Day-In Day-Out\" (1987). Gabrels recalled that the band \"used K-Tel Records' late night advertising [informercials] as our template\" for the video. \"We had certain vignettes in our head, like us playing in a venue, then we wanted to add elements that were a little more vaudevillian, such as the monkey unplugging the band, which I think was a Hunt idea.\" The video was recorded at The Ritz in New York. The video was only released as part of a \"very limited promotional box set\", and never commercially, until its 30th anniversary in 2019.\n\nThe band played an unannounced live show in Nassau while recording the album, and then made a live appearance at the International Rock Awards Show on 31 May 1989. Two weeks later, the band embarked on their 12-show Tin Machine Tour, wrapping up in early July. 8 songs performed in Paris on 25 June 1989 were released digitally in August 2019, to coincide with the album's 30th anniversary. The digital release was mastered by Tim Palmer.\n\nTracks from this and the second Tin Machine album were recorded live during the 1991-1992 It's My Life Tour and released on \"\" (1992).\n\nAt the time of release, \"Tin Machine\" met with some success, winning generally positive reviews and reaching No. 3 in the UK Albums Chart. Short-term sales of the album were estimated to have been between 200,000 and 1,000,000 copies within a few years. By the end of 2012 the entire catalogue of Tin Machine albums had sold an estimated 2 million copies.\n\n\"Spin\" magazine called the album \"noise rock without the noise. Aggressive, direct, brutal and stylishly plain, it combines the energy of the rock avant-garde with traditional R&B rhythmic punch\", summing up the album by calling it \"incendiary fun\" and noting that \"the buoyant Sales brothers and Gabrels certainly equal and frequently surpass Bowie.\" \"Rolling Stone\" magazine praised the album's \"cynical, indignant and acidic\" approach to music as an \"all-too-welcome feast of aggro-guitar flamboyance and bass-drum body checking\", noting that at times it sounds like Sonic Youth meets \"Station to Station\". A review by the McClatchy Company called the band \"a lean, mean rock 'n' roll machine\", that showed that \"Bowie's back\", going on to say that this is his most invigorating album since 1980's \"Scary Monsters\".\n\nWhen asked in an interview what the main criticism of the record would be, Bowie conceded that the album might be \"not accessible\" to fans. \"I guess it's not as obviously melodic as one would think it would probably be [for a Bowie album].\"\n\nThe CD and cassette releases of the album contain the tracks \"Run\" and \"Sacrifice Yourself\", which were excluded from the LP release. All releases since follow the former's sequencing.\n\nLP version — side one (tracks 1–6 as above)\nThe 1999 reissue of \"Tin Machine\" incorporates the album into Bowie's solo back-catalogue; the spine and disc credits the artist as David Bowie, with \"Tin Machine\" as the album's title.\n\nTin Machine – producers, mixing\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004645", "title": "Dum-Dum (album)", "text": "Dum-Dum (album)\n\nDum-Dum is the first full-length album by the alternative rock band The Vaselines, released in 1989. It was recorded at Chamber Studios, Edinburgh, between December 1988 and January 1989. The album was produced by the band and Jamie Watson, and was included in its entirety for their career retrospective \"\". \n\nThe musicians contributing the synthesized strings to \"Slushy\" and the Indian raga sounds to \"Lovecraft\" have not been publicly identified. Other songs recorded during the Dum-Dum sessions include \"Bitch\", \"Dying For It (The Blues)\" and \"Let's Get Ugly\". \"Teenage Superstars\" had already been featured on their 1988 EP \"Dying for It\". The album was re-issed on clear vinyl for Record Store Day in 2018. \n\nAll tracks written by Kelly and McKee.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004649", "title": "TSS Kanowna", "text": "TSS Kanowna\n\nTSS \"Kanowna\", was an Australian steamer built during 1902. The 6,993-ton, long \"Kanowna\" was constructed by William Denny and Brothers of Dumbarton, Scotland, and had a twin screw design. \n\n\"Kanowna\" was operated by the Australian United Steam Navigation Company (AUSNC), and it served the Sydney to Fremantle route.\nDuring August and September 1914, \"Kanowna\" was requisitioned by the Australian military to transport 1,000 soldiers to German New Guinea as part of the Australian Naval and Military Expeditionary Force. Sailing late from Townsville on 8 August, the ship was forced to anchor off Thursday Island until 16 August, and did not arrive off Port Moresby until 6 September. The expeditionary force sailed the next day for Rabaul, but \"Kanowna\" fell behind the rest of the convoy, with the ship's master signalling to that his crew had mutinied: the boiler stokers and firemen had stopped work. In Arthur Jose's Royal Australian Navy-focused volume of the \"Official History of Australia in the War of 1914–1918\", he claims that the mutiny was because these men refused to leave Australian waters, but Tom Frame and Kevin Baker state in \"Mutiny!\" that this is incorrect; the troopship was on short rations of food and water because of the delays sailing north and only minimal resupply in Port Moresby, but the stokers and firemen were requesting more water to remain hydrated in the hot boilerrooms and to wash off coal grime, and refused to work until this demand was met. The workers were taken into the custody of a party of soldiers, and the force's commander ordered \"Kanowna\" to return to Townsville, with soldiers volunteering to keep the ship running. The Australian Commonwealth Naval Board conducted an inquiry into the mutiny, even though as a civilian vessel, \"Kanowna\" technically wasn't under their jurisdiction. The state of the supplies was seen as a major contributing factor to the sailors' actions. \"Kanowna\" was returned to her owners on 21 September.\nOn 1 June 1915, the vessel was requisitioned again for military service. \"Kanwona\" transported soldiers and supplies to Egypt, then made for England, where she was modified for use as a hospital ship. After completion, \"Kanowna\" could carry 452 wounded in cots, along with a medical staff of 88 in addition to her regular crew. Sailing in September, \"Kanowna\" was used to transport Royal Army Medical Corps personnel to locations throughout the Mediterranean, then collected wounded Australian personnel and transported them home. She would make a total of 10 voyages between Australia and England in the next three years, although some runs were made to England with British wounded. In May 1917, the unrestricted submarine warfare campaign forced the ship to sail around Africa instead of through the Mediterranean: the nurses and medical staff were transported overland from Durban to London, and used to supplement hospital personnel until \"Kanowna\" arrived in July. In October 1918, after the war's end, the hospital ship was sent to collect 900 British and Commonwealth prisoners-of-war that had been interred in Turkey. \"Kanowna\" was returned to the AUSNC on 29 July 1929, and she resumed passenger and cargo service.\n\nOn 18 February 1929, \"Kanowna\" ran into rocks near Cleft Island while on a voyage between Sydney and Melbourne. Passengers were transferred to . Although it was initially thought that \"Kanowna\" could be saved by beaching, the ship's boilers had gone out. The crew were taken aboard , and \"Kanowna\" sank the following morning. A court of inquiry found the ship's master at fault for the loss, as he did not slow his ship or exercise due caution in the foggy conditions. The wreck of \"Kanowna\" is one of Tasmania's shipwrecks.\n\nThe exact location of the shipwreck was unknown until 2005. On 23 April, four divers found a shipwreck into Bass Strait and submerged in approximately of water, which was believed to be the former merchant ship. A more detailed inspection of the wreck site on 8 May allowed the divers to match the wreck with drawings of \"Kanowna\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004652", "title": "Signaling protocol", "text": "Signaling protocol\n\nA signaling protocol is a type of protocol used to identify signaling encapsulation. Signaling is used to identify the state of connection between telephones or VOIP terminals (IP telephone or PCs or VoWLAN units). The following is a list of signaling protocols:\n"}
{"id": "2004663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004663", "title": "Angiogenesis inhibitor", "text": "Angiogenesis inhibitor\n\nAn angiogenesis inhibitor is a substance that inhibits the growth of new blood vessels (angiogenesis). Some angiogenesis inhibitors are endogenous and a normal part of the body's control and others are obtained exogenously through pharmaceutical drugs or diet.\n\nAngiogenesis inhibitors were once thought to have potential as a \"silver bullet\" treatment applicable to many types of cancer, but the limitations of anti-angiogenic therapy have been shown in practice. Nonetheless, inhibitors are used to effectively treat cancer, macular degeneration in the eye, and other diseases that involve a proliferation of blood vessels.\n\nWhen a tumor stimulates the growth of new vessels, it is said to have undergone an 'angiogenic switch'. The principal stimulus for this angiogenic switch appears to be oxygen deprivation, although other stimuli such as inflammation, oncogenic mutations and mechanical stress may also play a role. The angiogenic switch leads to tumor expression of pro-angiogenic factors and increased tumor vascularization. Specifically, tumor cells release various pro-angiogenic paracrine factors (including angiogenin, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). These stimulate endothelial cell proliferation, migration and invasion resulting in new vascular structures sprouting from nearby blood vessels. Cell adhesion molecules, such as integrins, are critical to the attachment and migration of endothelial cells to the extracellular matrix.\n\nInhibiting angiogenesis requires treatment with anti-angiogenic factors, or drugs which reduce the production of pro-angiogenic factors, prevent them binding to their receptors or block their actions. Inhibition of the VEGF pathway has become the focus of angiogenesis research, as approximately 60% of malignant tumors express high concentrations of VEGF. Strategies to inhibit the VEGF pathway include antibodies directed against VEGF or VEGFR, soluble VEGFR/VEGFR hybrids, and tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The most widely used VEGF pathway inhibitor on the market today is Bevacizumab. Bevacizumab binds to VEGF and inhibits it from binding to VEGF receptors.\n\nAngiogenesis is regulated by the activity of endogenous stimulators and inhibitors. Endogenous inhibitors, found in the body naturally, are involved in the day-to-day process of regulating blood vessel formation. Endogenous inhibitors are often derived from the extracellular matrix or basement membrane proteins and function by interfering with endothelial cell formation and migration, endothelial tube morphogenesis, and down-regulation of genes expressed in endothelial cells.\n\nDuring tumor growth, the action of angiogenesis stimulators surpasses the control of angiogenesis inhibitors, allowing for unregulated or less regulated blood vessel growth and formation. Endogenous inhibitors are attractive targets for cancer therapy because they are less toxic and less likely to lead to drug resistance than some exogenous inhibitors. However, the therapeutic use of endogenous inhibitors has disadvantages. In animal studies, high doses of inhibitors were required to prevent tumor growth and the use of endogenous inhibitors would likely be long-term.\n\nA recent method for the delivery of anti-angiogenesis factors to tumor regions in cancer patients uses genetically modified bacteria that are able to colonize solid tumors \"in vivo\", such as \"Clostridium\", \"Bifidobacteria\" and \"Salmonella\" by adding genes for anti-angiogenic factors such as endostatin or IP10 chemokine and removing any harmful virulence genes. A target can also be added to the outside of the bacteria so that they are sent to the correct organ in the body. The bacteria can then be injected into the patient and they will locate themselves to the tumor site, where they release a continual supply of the desired drugs in the vicinity of a growing cancer mass, preventing it from being able to gain access to oxygen and ultimately starving the cancer cells. This method has been shown to work both in vitro and in vivo in mice models, with very promising results. It is expected that this method will become commonplace for treatment of various cancer types in humans in the future.\n\nSome common components of human diets also act as mild angiogenesis inhibitors and have therefore been proposed for angioprevention, the prevention of metastasis through the inhibition of angiogenesis. In particular, the following foods contain significant inhibitors and have been suggested as part of a healthy diet for this and other benefits:\n\n\nResearch and development in this field has been driven largely by the desire to find better cancer treatments. Tumors cannot grow larger than 2mm without angiogenesis. By stopping the growth of blood vessels, scientists hope to cut the means by which tumors can nourish themselves and thus metastasize.\n\nIn addition to their use as anti-cancer drugs, angiogenesis inhibitors are being investigated for their use as anti-obesity agents, as blood vessels in adipose tissue never fully mature, and are thus destroyed by angiogenesis inhibitors. Angiogenesis inhibitors are also used as treatment for the wet form of macular degeneration. By blocking VEGF, inhibitors can cause regression of the abnormal blood vessels in the retina and improve vision when injected directly into the vitreous humor of the eye.\n\nThrough binding to VEGFR and other VEGF receptors in endothelial cells, VEGF can trigger multiple cellular responses like promoting cell survival, preventing apoptosis, and remodeling cytoskeleton, all of which promote angiogenesis. Bevacizumab (brand name Avastin) traps VEGF in the blood, lowering the binding of VEGF to its receptors. This results in reduced activation of the angiogenesis pathway, thus inhibiting new blood vessel formation in tumors.\n\nAfter a series of clinical trials in 2004, Avastin was approved by the FDA, becoming the first commercially available anti-angiogenesis drug. FDA approval of Avastin for breast cancer treatment was later revoked on November 18, 2011.\n\nDespite the therapeutic potential of anti-angiogenesis drugs, they can also be harmful when used inappropriately. Thalidomide is one such antiangiogenic agent. Thalidomide was given to pregnant women to treat nausea. However, when pregnant women take an antiangiogenic agent, the developing fetus will not form blood vessels properly, thereby preventing the proper development of fetal limbs and circulatory systems. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, thousands of children were born with deformities, most notably phocomelia, as a consequence of thalidomide use.\n\nAccording to a study published in the August 15, 2004 issue of the journal \"Cancer Research\", cannabinoids, the active ingredients in marijuana, restrict the sprouting of blood vessels to gliomas (brain tumors) implanted under the skin of mice, by inhibiting the expression of genes needed for the production of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).\n\nBleeding is one of the most difficult side effects to manage; this complication is somewhat inherent to the effectiveness of the drug. Bevacizumab has been shown to be the drug most likely to cause bleeding complications. While the mechanisms of bleeding induced by anti-VEGF agents are complicated and not yet totally understood, the most accepted hypothesis is that VEGF could promote endothelial cell survival and integrity in the adult vasculature and its inhibition may decrease capacity for renewal of damaged endothelial cells.\n\nIn a study done by ML Maitland, a mean blood pressure increase of 8.2 mm Hg systolic and 6.5 mm Hg diastolic was reported in the first 24 hours after the first treatment with sorafenib, a VEGF pathway inhibitor.\n\nBecause these drugs act on parts of the blood and blood vessels, they tend to have side effects that affect these processes. Aside from problems with hemorrhage and hypertension, less common side effects of these drugs include dry, itchy skin, hand-foot syndrome (tender, thickened areas on the skin, sometimes with blisters on palms and soles), diarrhea, fatigue, and low blood counts. Angiogenesis inhibitors can also interfere with wound healing and cause cuts to re-open or bleed. Rarely, perforations (holes) in the intestines can occur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004665", "title": "List of Picasso artworks 1961–1970", "text": "List of Picasso artworks 1961–1970\n\nArtworks by Pablo Picasso from 1961 to 1970\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004669", "title": "Baba Sali", "text": "Baba Sali\n\nRabbi Israel Abuhatzeira (), known as the Baba Sali (, , lit. \"Praying Father\") (1889–1984) was a leading Moroccan Sephardic rabbi and kabbalist who was renowned for his ability to work miracles through his prayers. His burial place in Netivot, Israel has become a shrine for prayers and petitioners.\n\nRabbi Israel was the scion of a distinguished family of Sephardic Torah scholars and tzadikkim who were also known as \"baalei mofet\" (miracle workers). He is the grandson of Rabbi Yaakov Abu Hasira. The patriarch of this family was Rabbi Shmuel Abuhatzeira. Born in the land of Israel, Rabbi Shmuel lived in Damascus for a while, where he studied Torah together with Rabbi Chaim Vital. In \"Shem Hagedolim\", the Chida described Rabbi Shmuel as \"an \"ish Elokim kadosh\" (a holy man of God). Wise people speak of his might and wonders in saving the Jewish community from many difficulties.\"\n\nRabbi Shmuel and his family eventually moved to the city of Tafilalt, Morocco, where Rabbi Shmuel's son Mas'ud (\"Moshe\" in Hebrew) became the rav of the city. Rabbi Mas'ud's son, Yaakov, known as the Avir Yaakov, succeeded his father as rabbi of Tafilalt. Rabbi Yaakov's eldest son, Mas'ud, became an \"av beit din\" in the same city, and it was here that his son, Yisrael, the Baba Sali, was born.\n\nIsrael was born on Rosh Hashanah 5650 (1889) and grew up in a home permeated with Torah study and holy behavior. His family lived on a large estate which included a yeshiva where young scholars studied night and day. The \"beit din\" (rabbinical court) of his father, Rabbi Mas'ud, was also located on the premises. His older brother, Rabbi David, studied by himself in an attic. On the rare times that Rabbi Mas'ud traveled, he would cover his eyes with his cape to avoid seeing inappropriate sights.\n\nAs a child, Yisrael was a diligent Torah scholar, studying day and night. At the age of 12, he began to fast during the six weeks of Shovavim. Knowing his parents would not let him continue, he hid his fasting from them, but his brother, David, noticed how weak and pale he was. Though David urged him to stop, Yisrael continued his fasting.\n\nAfter his bar mitzvah, he entered his family's yeshiva, where the students rose at midnight for Tikkun Chatzot and then studied Kabbalistic works until dawn, when they would go to the mikveh, pray the morning service, and eat breakfast. This was followed by in-depth Gemara study, the afternoon prayers, and a \"shiur\" in Shulchan Aruch.\n\nHe died in 1984 (4 \"Shevat\" 5744). His funeral was attended by an estimated 100,000 people. His gravesite in Netivot has become a popular pilgrimage site in Israel. On the anniversary of his death, thousands come to visit his tomb and pray.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004689", "title": "Marwari horse", "text": "Marwari horse\n\nThe Marwari or Malani is a rare breed of horse from the Marwar (or Jodhpur) region of Rajasthan, in north-west India. It is closely related to the Kathiawari breed of the Kathiawar peninsula of Gujarat, with which it shares an unusual inward-curving shape of the ears. It is found in all equine colours, including piebald and skewbald. It is a hardy riding horse; it may exhibit a natural ambling gait.\n\nThe Rathores, traditional rulers of the Marwar region of western India, were the first to breed the Marwari. Beginning in the 12th century, they espoused strict breeding that promoted purity and hardiness. Used throughout history as a cavalry horse by the people of the Marwar region, the Marwari was noted for its loyalty and bravery in battle. The breed deteriorated in the 1930s, when poor management practices resulted in a reduction of the breeding stock, but today has regained some of its popularity. The Marwari is used for light draught and agricultural work, as well as riding and packing. In 1995, a breed society was formed for the Marwari horse in India. The exportation of Marwari horses was banned for decades, but between 2000 and 2006, a small number of exports were allowed. Since 2008, visas allowing temporary travel of Marwari horses outside India have been available in small numbers. Though they are rare they are becoming more popular outside of India due to their unique looks. This breed is considered as the \"\"National breed of India\"\" respectively. \n\nThe origins of the Marwari are obscure. It is thought to descend from the warhorses of the Rajput warriors of the Marwar and Mewar regions of Rajasthan, with subsequent influence of horses of Turkoman type brought to the area by Mughal invaders in the sixteenth century. Unlike the Kathiawari, the Marwari shows little Arab influence; however, legend in India states that an Arabian ship, containing seven Arabian horses of good breeding, was shipwrecked off the shore of the Kachchh District. These horses were then taken to the Marwar district and used as foundation bloodstock for the Marwari. There is also the possibility of some Mongolian influence from the north. The breed probably originated in northwest India on the Afghanistan border, as well as in Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan, and takes its name from the Marwar region (also called the Jodhpur region) of India.\n\nThe Rathores, rulers of Marwar and successful Rajput cavalry, were the traditional breeders of the Marwari. The Rathores were forced from their Kingdom of Kanauj in 1193, and withdrew into the Great Indian and Thar Deserts. The Marwari was vital to their survival, and during the 12th century they followed strict selective breeding processes, keeping the finest stallions for the use of their subjects. During this time, the horses were considered divine beings, and at times they were only allowed to be ridden by members of the Rajput families and the Kshatriyas warrior caste. When the Moguls captured northern India in the early 16th century they brought Turkoman horses that were probably used to supplement the breeding of the Marwari. Marwaris were renowned during this period for their bravery and courage in battle, as well as their loyalty to their riders. During the late 16th century, the Rajputs of Marwar, under the leadership of Moghul emperor Akbar, formed a cavalry force over 50,000 strong. The Rathores believed that the Marwari horse could only leave a battlefield under one of three conditions – victory, death, or carrying a wounded master to safety. The horses were trained to be extremely responsive in battlefield conditions, and were practised in complex riding maneuvers. Over 300 years later, during the First World War, Marwar lancers under Sir Pratap Singh assisted the British.\n\nThe period of the British Raj hastened the Marwari's downfall, as did the eventual independence of India. The British occupiers preferred other breeds, and tried to eliminate the Marwari, along with the Kathiawari. The British instead preferred Thoroughbreds and polo ponies, and reduced the reputation of the Marwari to the point where even the inward-turning ears of the breed were mocked as the \"mark of a native horse\". During the 1930s the Marwari deteriorated, with breeding stock diminishing and becoming of poorer quality due to poor breeding practices. Indian independence, along with the obsolescence of warriors on horseback, led to a decreased need for the Marwari and many animals were subsequently killed. In the 1950s many Indian noblemen lost their land and hence much of their ability to take care of animals, resulting in many Marwari horses being sold as pack horses, castrated, or killed. The breed was on the verge of extinction until the intervention of Maharaja Umaid Singhji in the first half of the 20th century saved the Marwari. His work was carried on by his grandson, Maharaja Gaj Singh II.\n\nA British horsewoman named Francesca Kelly founded a group called Marwari Bloodlines in 1995, with the goal of promoting and preserving the Marwari horse around the world. In 1999, Kelly and Raghuvendra Singh Dundlod, a descendant of Indian nobility, led a group that founded the Indigenous Horse Society of India (of which the Marwari Horse Society is part), a group that works with the government, breeders, and the public to promote and conserve the breed. Kelly and Dunlod also entered and won endurance races at the Indian national equestrian games, convincing the Equestrian Federation of India to sanction a national show for indigenous horses – the first in the country. The pair worked with other experts from the Indigenous Horse Society to develop the first breed standards.\n\nThe government of India had originally banned the export of indigenous horse breeds, although not polo ponies or Thoroughbreds, in 1952. This ban was partially lifted in 1999, when a small number of indigenous horses could be exported after receiving a special license. Kelly imported the first Marwari horse into the United States in 2000. Over the next seven years, 21 horses were exported, until, in 2006, licenses stopped being granted over concerns that native breeding populations were being threatened. One of the last Marwaris to be exported was the first to be imported to Europe, in 2006, when a stallion was given to the French Living Museum of the Horse. In 2008, the Indian government began granting licenses for \"temporary exports\" of up to one year, to allow horses to be exhibited in other countries. This was in response to breeders and the breed society, who felt they were not being allowed a fair chance to exhibit their animals.\n\nIn late 2007 plans were announced to create a stud book for the breed, a collaborative venture between the Marwari Horse Society of India and the Indian government. A registration process was initiated in 2009, when it was announced that the Marwari Horse Society had become a government body, the only government-authorized registration society for Marwari horses. The registration process includes an evaluation of the horse against the breed standards, during which unique identification marks and physical dimensions are recorded. After the evaluation, the horse is cold branded with its registration number and photographed. In late 2009 the Indian government announced that the Marwari horse, along with other Indian horse breeds, would be commemorated on a set of stamps issued by that country.\n\nThe height at the withers of the Marwari averages for males, and for mares. The coat may be of any colour, and is most often dark or light bay, at times with the metallic sheen often seen in the Akhal-Teke; it may also be grey or chestnut, or occasionally palomino, piebald, or skewbald. White horses cannot be registered. Grey horses are considered auspicious and tend to be the most valuable, with piebald and skewbald horses the second-most favoured. Black horses are considered unlucky, as the colour is a symbol of death and darkness. Horses with a blaze and four white socks are considered lucky.\nThe facial profile is straight or slightly Roman, and the ears are medium-sized and curving inward so that the tips meet; also, the Marwari horse can rotate its ears 180º. The neck is arched and carried high, running into pronounced withers, with a deep chest and muscular, broad, and angular shoulders. Marwaris generally have a long back and sloping croup. The legs tend to be slender and the hooves small but well-formed. Members of the breed are hardy and easy keepers, but they can also be of tenacious and unpredictable temperaments. They are quite similar to the Kathiawari horse, another breed from India, having much of the same history and physical features. The main difference between the Marwari and the Kathiawari is their original geographic origin – Marwaris are mainly from the Marwar region while Kathiawaris are from the Kathiawar peninsula. Kathiawaris have inward-slanting ears, a short back, and a straight, slender neck and are more similar to Arabians, but they are pure in breed. Kathiawaris are slightly smaller than Marwaris in general.\n\nThe Marwari horse often exhibits a natural ambling gait, close to a pace, called the \"revaal\", \"aphcal\", or \"rehwal\". Hair whorls and their placement are important to breeders of Marwaris. Horses with long whorls down the neck are called \"devman\" and considered lucky, while horses with whorls below their eyes are called \"anusudhal\" and are unpopular with buyers. Whorls on the fetlocks are thought to bring victory. The horses are expected to have correct proportions, based on the width of a finger, said to be the equal of five grains of barley. For example, the length of the face should be between 28 and 40 fingers, and the length from the poll to the dock should be four times the length of the face.\n\nAs a direct result of indiscriminate breeding practices, as of 2001 only a few thousand purebred Marwari horses existed. Research studies have been conducted to examine the genetics of the Marwari horse and its relationship to other Indian and non-Indian horse breeds. Six different breeds have been identified in India: the Marwari, Kathiawari, Spiti pony, Bhutia pony, Manipuri Pony, and Zanskari. These six are distinct from each other in terms of unique performance traits and different agroclimactic conditions in the various areas of India where they originated. A 2005 study was conducted to identify past genetic bottlenecks in the Marwari horse. The study found that, in the DNA of the horses tested, there was no evidence of a genetic bottleneck in the breed's history. However, since the population has decreased rapidly in past decades, bottlenecks may have occurred that were not identified in the study. In 2007, a study was conducted to assess genetic variation among all Indian horse breeds except the Kathiawari. Based on analysis of microsatellite DNA, the Marwari was found to be the most genetically distinct breed of the five studied, and was most distant from the Manipuri; none of the breeds were found to have close genetic ties to the Thoroughbred. The Marwari was distinguishable from the other breeds in terms of both physical characteristics (mainly height) and environmental adaptability. The physical differences were attributed to differing ancestries: the Marwari horse are closely associated with the Arabian horse, while the four other breeds are supposedly descended from the Tibetan pony.\nThe Marwari horse is a riding horse; it may also be used for shows, horse safaris, sport, ceremonial & religious purposes, and during earlier days in war. Marwari horses are often crossed with Thoroughbreds to produce a larger horse with more versatility. Despite the fact that the breed is indigenous to the country, cavalry units of the Indian military make little use of the horses, although they are popular in the Jodhpur and Jaipur areas of Rajasthan, India. They are particularly suited to dressage, in part due to a natural tendency to perform. Marwari horses are also used to play polo, sometimes playing against Thoroughbreds. Within the Marwari horse breed was a strain known as the Natchni, believed by local people to be \"born to dance\". Decorated in silver, jewels, and bells, these horses were trained to perform complex prancing and leaping movements at many ceremonies, including weddings. Although the Natchni strain is extinct today, horses trained in those skills are still in demand in rural India.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004698", "title": "Cambridge Rindge and Latin School", "text": "Cambridge Rindge and Latin School\n\nThe Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, also known as CRLS or \"Rindge,\" is a public high school in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States. It is a part of the Cambridge Public School District. In 1977, two separate schools, the Rindge Technical School and Cambridge High and Latin School, merged to form the Cambridge Rindge and Latin School. The newly built high school at the time increased its capacity to more than 2,000 students from all four grades.\n\nThe school is divided into 'Learning Communities.' The Learning Communities are called C, R, L, and S. Until June 2000, the subdivisions were called \"Houses\": Pilot, Fundamental, House A, Academy, Leadership, and the Rindge School of Technical Arts or RSTA. In 1990, RSTA became a \"house\" within the main CRLS school. The \"Houses\" then temporarily became \"Schools\" (called schools 1/2/3/4/5). In 2004 the schools transitioned to become \"Learning Communities\" C (formerly school 1), R(formerly school 2), L(formerly school 3), and S(formerly school 5).\n\nThe High School Extension Program, at the site of the old Longfellow School, just down Broadway, offers a nontraditional approach to the high school learning process, handling only 60–100 students at a time. In 2009 and 2010, the building became a temporary freshman academy to accommodate renovations.\n\nCRLS is noted for its diversity.\n\nBeginning in 2003, the City of Cambridge mobilized an ambitious plan to renovate the high school. The project was claimed to be \"the first major renovation and refurbishing of the 35-year-old [sic] high school building.\" The project continued to be pushed back, due to state funding issues and other obstructions along the way. In 2006, the state announced a return in funding, and by the Spring 2007 the School Committee started looking at wider ranging renovations for the building. The renovations were undertaken in 2009-2011.\n\nCRLS is actually several separate schools combined into a greater whole. In 1642, the year Harvard College's first class of nine young men graduated, the General Court made it the duty of Cambridge to require that parents and masters properly educate their children or be fined if they neglected to do so. (Girls, however, did not usually attend public schools until 1789, when Boston voted that \"children of both sexes\" should be taught in the reading and writing schools of their newly reorganized system.) In 1648, Cambridge set up a public grammar school, Master Elijah Corlett's \"lattin schoole,\" making Cambridge the fifth town (after Boston, Charlestown, Dorchester, and Salem) in the Massachusetts Bay Colony to do so. Corlett's schoolhouse came into the possession of Old Cambridge in 1660, and over the next century was succeeded by several new buildings. The public school that evolved from Cortlett's original was a \"grammar school\" in a double sense: an English grammar school for Old Cambridge and a Latin grammar school (teaching the rudiments of Latin and Greek) for all Cambridge. The school generally aimed to prepare students for admission to college:\n\nBy 1832, public schools in Cambridge were open to girls as well as boys. In 1838, Cambridgeport organized a public high school to serve all of Cambridge at the corner of Broadway and Windsor Streets. However, since the location was not easily accessible to either Old Cambridge or East Cambridge, most of the new high schools' students were drawn from Cambridgeport. In 1843, Old Cambridge set up the Female High School, and East Cambridge completed its Otis schoolhouse. Not until 1848 did plans to merge the high schools of the three competitive wards overcome sectional differences. This marked the origin of the Cambridge High School, which began in a new building erected at the corner of Amory and Summer streets and was immediately flooded with over 135 applicants.\n\nThe Cambridge High School was divided in 1886: its classical department became the Cambridge Latin School and its remaining departments the Cambridge English High School. The English High School was located at the corner of Broadway and Fayette Streets, while the Latin School was transferred to the Lee Street church, which had been renovated to receive it. At the time of the separation, the high school contained 515 pupils, and 16 teachers. Six teachers and 165 pupils went to the Latin school. In September 1888, the Cambridge Manual Training School for Boys (to become Rindge Tech), founded and maintained by Frederick Hastings Rindge, was opened to the boys of the English High School. In 1892, the English High School moved into a commodious new building on Broadway; Rindge had presented the land to Cambridge at a cost of $230,000. The EHS's old building at Broadway and Fayette was remodeled, and the Latin School moved in. By 1896, the Latin School had grown so quickly that plans were underway for another new building (cost approx. $250,000) that would stand on land adjacent to the English High School building and the Public Library.\n\nIn 1977, Cambridge High & Latin and the Rindge School of Technical Arts and were merged into Cambridge Rindge and Latin, or CRLS. The old Cambridge High & Latin building was demolished in 1980, but the old granite lintel and doorway frame have been put in place at the corner of Ellery Street and Broadway as a commemorative archway, leading into the grassy fields of Joan Lorentz Park.\n\nIn 2001 there was an attempt to restructure the Cambridge Rindge & Latin school under headmaster Paula Evans, which had found controversy. She resigned shortly afterwards. After her resignation she began efforts to create a charter school, which became the Community Charter School of Cambridge (CCSC). Colleen Walsh of the \"Boston Globe\" said that Evans's charter school efforts \"touched off a firestorm\" and that \"many people\" were upset at her because they perceived that she had abandoned Cambridge Rindge & Latin.\n\nAs of 2009, Cambridge Rindge and Latin remains one of the most diverse schools in the United States, with over 83 different countries represented within its halls.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and early 1990s, the school was subject to multiple accusations of inherent racism in its infrastructure, which led to the disbanding of the original houses, as well as the changing of the original school mascot from a bust of a Native American to a falcon and their name from Warriors to Falcons after concerns about the racist history of the mascot. Students entered their ideas and then voted for the new mascot in a school wide contest. The graduating class of '90 went from wearing brown and gold and Native American warrior and being called The Mighty Warriors to wearing black and silver and a falcon and being called Falcons.\n\nThe school's newspaper, \"Register Forum\", has the distinction of being the oldest continually published public high school newspaper in the country. The newspaper was first founded in 1891 as the \"C.M.T.S Register\", the name was further changed to the \"Rindge Register\", and in 1977, when the two public high schools in the city merged, their papers merged as well. The Cambridge Latin Forum merged with the Rindge Register to become \"The Register Forum\". Since then, the paper has won numerous awards in high school journalism. The Register Forum now publishes 10 editions per year at the end of each month, September to June. Those editions range from 8 to 24 pages, and focus on events around the school. The paper is printed at The Harvard Crimson press.\n\nAthletics have always played a major part in the school's extracurricular activity structure, and most of the school's 30 teams have received some form of statewide recognition of excellence. The 11 fall and winter sports take place between September and Thanksgiving (the day of the football team's final game), and between the first Monday following Thanksgiving and February/March. The ten spring sports start on the third Monday in March, and finish in late May.\n\nThe teams are supported by the fundraising efforts of Friends of Cambridge Athletics (FOCA) who sell \"Cambridge Athletics\"-branded clothing to subsidize the teams.\n\nCRLS is also known for its extensive and rigorous arts programs, with a particular emphasis on visual and performing arts. The school has programs in photography, graphic design, fine arts, pottery, a modern dance company, a jazz band and an orchestra. The school's drama department has won numerous awards and frequently competes in the yearly statewide drama festival, having reached the finals level four times in the past five years. The technical theater department is frequently singled out for excellence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004699", "title": "Saints' Rest", "text": "Saints' Rest\n\nSaints' Rest was the second building erected on the campus of the Agricultural College of the State of Michigan (now Michigan State University). It was built in 1856 and served as the school's only dormitory until 1870, when Williams Hall was completed. Along with College Hall and a horse barn, it was one of three buildings completed when the college opened for classes in 1857.\n\nAs the campus's only residence hall, the building had no official name. Students had a variety of nicknames for it including \"the hall\", \"the boarding hall\", \"old hall\", or \"the house\". It was only after the hall burned that it acquired the moniker \"Saints' Rest\", which came from the Puritan devotional \"The Saints' Everlasting Rest\", written by Richard Baxter in 1650.\n\nThe hall burned down during the December 1876 vacation despite the efforts of the Lansing fire department, which made the run all the way from Lansing in only 45 minutes.\n\nOn June 6, 2005, a team of Michigan State archeology professors and students began a six-week excavation on the site. The dig was part of MSU's 2005 sesquicentennial celebration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004716", "title": "Ammar al-Bakri", "text": "Ammar al-Bakri\n\nAmmar al-Bakri is an Iraqi judge who was the administrator of the Iraqi Special Tribunal to rule over the trial of Saddam Hussein. Al-Bakri was approved by the Iraqi National Council on October 4, 2004.\n\nCritics claimed that al-Bakri is too close to the former interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi.\n"}
{"id": "2004719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004719", "title": "Nuclear matrix", "text": "Nuclear matrix\n\nIn biology, the nuclear matrix is the network of fibres found throughout the inside of a cell nucleus and is somewhat analogous to the cell cytoskeleton. In contrast to the cytoskeleton, however, the nuclear matrix has been proposed to be a dynamic structure. Along with the nuclear lamina, it aids in organizing the genetic information within the cell.\n\nThe exact function of this matrix is still disputed, and its very existence has been called into question. Evidence for such a structure was recognised as long ago as 1948 (Zbarskii and Debov), and consequently many proteins associated with the matrix have been discovered. The presence of intra-cellular proteins is common ground, and it is agreed that proteins such as the Scaffold, or Matrix Associated Proteins (SAR or MAR) have some role in the organisation of chromatins. There is evidence that the nuclear matrix is involved in regulation of gene expression in \"Arabidopsis thaliana\".\n\nFor a long time the question whether a polymer meshwork, a “nuclear matrix” or “nuclear-scaffold” or \"NuMat\" is an essential component of the in vivo nuclear architecture has remained a matter of debate. While there are arguments that the relative position of chromosome territories (CTs), the equivalent of condensed metaphase chromosomes at interphase, may be maintained due to steric hindrance or electrostatic repulsion forces between the apparently highly structured CT surfaces, this concept has to be reconciled with observations according to which cells treated with the classical matrix-extraction procedures maintain defined territories up to the point where a minor subset of acidic nuclear matrix proteins is released – very likely those proteins that governed their association with the nuclear skeleton. The nuclear matrix proteome consists of structural proteins, chaperones, DNA/RNA-binding proteins, chromatin remodeling and transcription factors. The complexity of NuMat is an indicator of its diverse structural and functional significance.\n\nS/MARs (scaffold/matrix attachment elements), the DNA regions that are thought to attach genomic DNA to the nuclear skeleton, show an ever increasing spectrum of established biological activities. All these activities are in agreement with (or most easily explained by) the nuclear matrix hypothesis. This is one justification for maintaining this concept before equally plausible alternative models emerge.\n\nS/MARs find increasing use for the rational design of vectors with widespread use in gene therapy and biotechnology. Nowadays S/MAR functions can be modulated, improved and custom-tailored to the specific needs of novel vector systems.\n\nThe nuclear matrix composition on human cells has been proven to be cell type and tumor specific. It has been clearly demonstrated that the nuclear matrix composition in a tumor is different from its normal counterparts. This fact could be useful to characterize cancer markers and to predict the disease even earlier. These markers have been found in urine and blood and could potentially be used in early detection and prognosis of human cancers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004720", "title": "Street Spirit (Fade Out)", "text": "Street Spirit (Fade Out)\n\n\"Street Spirit (Fade Out)\" is a song by the English alternative rock band Radiohead. It is the final track on their second album, \"The Bends\", released in 1995. It was released as a single and reached number five on the UK Singles Chart, Radiohead's highest chart position up to that point. It has been covered by Peter Gabriel and the Darkness. In 2008, the song was featured on \"\".\n\nSongwriter Thom Yorke said \"Street Spirit\" was inspired by the American band R.E.M. and the 1991 novel \"The Famished Road\" by Ben Okri. The song is in A minor with an arpeggiated guitar part. It had the working title \"Three-Headed Street Spirit\".\n\nThe music video for \"Street Spirit\" was filmed over two nights in a desert outside Los Angeles. It was directed by Jonathan Glazer, who said: \"That was definitely a turning point in my own work. I knew when I finished that, because [Radiohead] found their own voices as an artist, at that point, I felt like I got close to whatever mine was, and I felt confident that I could do things that emoted, that had some kind of poetic as well as prosaic value. That for me was a key moment.\"\n\nIn 2018, \"Pitchfork\" wrote that the song \"channels a sense of capitalist dread that even class-conscious Britpop artists repressed\".\n\nPeter Gabriel recorded a cover of \"Street Spirit\" for his \"Scratch My Back\" project in 2010, hoping that Radiohead would return the compliment by recording a version of his 1982 song \"Wallflower\" for his album \"And I'll Scratch Yours\". According to Gabriel, Radiohead ceased communication after he sent it and backed out of the project. Gabriel said his rendition was \"pretty extreme\" and he had \"heard since that the band didn't like what I did with it\". \n\nIn 2012, the Darkness released a cover of \"Street Spirit\" on their album \"Hot Cakes\". In 2020, System of a Down drummer John Dolmayan released a cover with M. Shadows of Avenged Sevenfold and Tom Morello of Rage Against the Machine as a part of his covers project These Grey Men.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004730", "title": "Wiley Park railway station", "text": "Wiley Park railway station\n\nWiley Park railway station is located on the Bankstown line, serving the Sydney suburb of Wiley Park. It is served by Sydney Trains T3 Bankstown line services.\n\nWiley Park station opened on 19 June 1938, well after the line from Belmore to Bankstown opened in 1909, to provide an interchange with King Georges Road. While adjacent stations have island platforms, this station was built with side platforms and the architecture of the station buildings is significantly different.\n\nPunchbowl Bus Company operates two routes via Wiley Park station:\n\nWiley Park station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2004733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004733", "title": "Santa Maria, Bulacan", "text": "Santa Maria, Bulacan\n\n', (; ), officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. representing 7.8% of the population of the province.\n\nLocated on the banks of the Santa Maria River, north of Manila, Santa Maria has been a thriving settlement for almost four centuries. It was founded as a \"barrio\" of Bocaue in the early 17th century until it was established as an independent municipality on November 26, 1793 by the Spanish friar Francisco Dominguez Javier OFM. Known before as \"Santa Maria de Pandi\" (), it is named under the patronage of the Immaculate Conception (also known as La Purisima Concepcion). Its administrative center, the Poblacion, forms as the historic core of the municipality. It is surrounded by four rivers and it still largely retains its 2.88 square-kilometer boundaries since the Spanish Colonial Era.\n\nSanta Maria, with a population of 256,454, remains by a significant margin the most populous municipality in Central Luzon, as well as the 5th most populous municipality in the Philippines. As of 2015, Santa Maria’s urban population is 254,056 out of the total population of 256,454. The said urban population represents 99.10 % of the total population of Santa Maria.\n\nIts downtown area consists of three (3) highly urbanized barangays: Poblacion, Bagbaguin, and Santa Clara. It is one of the biggest and busiest commercial centers in the province as it accounts for more than half of all economic activities in the municipality. It is also one of Bulacan's leading financial centers. According to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and the Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation (PDIC), Santa Maria's total bank deposits reached PHP 22.47 billion as of December 2018, this accounts for almost 75% of Eastern Bulacan's total bank deposits. Likewise, Santa Maria is the richest municipality in Bulacan with an assets totaling to PHP 1.5 billion and revenues reaching an all-time high of PHP 738 million as of the 2018 report from the Commission on Audit (COA). It has a relatively high standard of living, with only 4% of the population living in poverty which is one of the lowest in the country (19 out of 1,489 municipalities).\n\nSanta Maria was the home town of José Corazón de Jesús, a Filipino poet popularly known as \"\"Huseng Batute\"\", who started composing his verse as a child. Another native of Santa Maria is Francisco Santiago, a composer who wrote \"\"Nasaan Ka Irog\"\" and other kundiman songs. In the political arena, Santa Maria has produced three Bulacan governors: Jose Serapio (1900-1901), Trinidad Icasiano (1912-1916), Fortunato Halili (1943-1944 and 1946-1951); and two representatives of the second and fourth district: Rogaciano Mercado (1953-1992) and Reylina Nicolas (2001-2010).\n\nSanta Maria got its name from the Immaculate Conception (also known as La Purisima Concepcion).\n\nBefore the Spaniards came to the Philippines, Santa Maria was just a vast wilderness, inhabited by wild animals and covered by thick and lush rainforests. Aetas and Dumagats are also known to inhabit the place a long time ago.\n\nSanta Maria's existence can be traced as early as the year 1647 when it is still a \"barrio\" (village) of Bocaue. The \"barrio\" was believed to be established on the same period when the Dominicans founded the vast Hacienda de Lolomboy that extends up to the Angat river on the north, Bocaue river on the west, Marilao river on the south and the Pulo River (Pulong Buhangin) on the east.\n\nSanta Maria was founded as an independent town by the Franciscan Fray Francisco Dominguez Javier on November 26, 1793. He began constructing the church which was completed in the early 1800s by Fray Tomas Marti. The construction of the church was viewed as the foundation of the spiritual crusade in the said locality. Natives were converted into Christianity and more people began to inhabit the place. Civil affairs started to take shape and the appointment of the first Capitan del Barrio, Andres dela Cruz, paved way for the permanent establishment of Poblacion, which was the seat of Spanish colonial government. People in those days were just renting their pieces of land. They paid their rents to the friars who were stationed in what is now known as Santa Clara, a barangay where at present one can see the ruins of a big convento of friars. People from other nearby places such as Balagtas, Pandi, Santa Maria, and San Jose del Monte, paid their rents in this convento. Santa Maria at that time was then called \"Santa Maria de Pandi\". The people acquired their lands after paying certain sum to the friars and the land became \"Lupang Tagalog\".\n\nThere were 82 capitanes who served the Spanish colonial administration from 1793 to 1899.\n\nUnder the Americans, the title \"captain\" was changed to \"presidente\". The first to hold the position was Maximo Evidente, who served from 1899 to 1900. Of the 12 others who succeeded him, the most popular were Agustin Morales (1928–34) and Fortunato F. Halili (1934–37). Morales was responsible for the construction of the first main water system in the town. Halili, who never drew his salary as executive, later on became Governor of Bulacan. It was during Halili's term as provincial governor when the Capitol building at Malolos was heavily damage due to the aftermath of World War II. He decided to take over and resurge Casa Real de Malolos as a temporary Gubernatorial Office during the period when the Capitol building was severely damaged. It was his effort to rebuild and to reconstruct the Capitol building into its original structure.\n\nDuring the Japanese Occupation, Dr. Teofilo Santiago, dubbed as \"Dr. Kamoteng Kahoy\" for his widespread campaign among the town's citizenry to plant cassava, became mayor of Santa Maria. Santiago was also responsible for the launching of the poultry industry – a livelihood project which earned for the town the distinction of being \"The Egg Basket of the Philippines\". He was also the \"Father of Santa Maria Dairy Plant\". After the Liberation, Capitan Ireneo Hermogenes was appointed Municipal Mayor from March 20, 1945 to October 1945. He was succeeded by Marciano Bautista.\n\nFrom the American colonial rule until the restoration period after World War II, Santa Maria was administered by 12 Presidentes from 1899 to 1937 and 4 Alcaldes from 1938 to 1947.\n\nThe post-liberation period saw Conrado Ignacio as the first elected Mayor of Santa Maria (1947–1955). He was succeeded by prominent personalities in Santa Maria local politics such as Ricardo G. Nicolas Sr. (1956–1959/1964–1967), Eriberto Ramos, Sr. (1960–1963), Paulino M. Luciano Sr. (1968–1971), Ricardo D. Nicolas, Jr.(1972–1978) and Paulino Luciano, Jr. (1979–1986).\n\nAfter the People Power Revolution in February 1986, President Corazon Aquino appointed Dr. Alfredo Perez, who was then the vice mayor of the town, as Officer-in-Charge of the municipality until May, 1986, when he was replaced by Ricardo Nicolas, Jr. In December 1986, however, Nicolas was appointed OIC Vice Governor of Bulacan and was succeeded by Benjamin G. Geronimo (1987–1988) and Atty. Ramon H. Clemente (1988).\n\nDuring the 1988 elections, Eriberto Ramos was elected Mayor and served until June 30, 1992. On July 1, 1992, he was succeeded by Reylina G. Nicolas. Her three terms of leadership gave the municipality various awards and citations. In July 1, 1993, the municipality rose from third class to second-class municipality and July 1, 1996, the income level of the municipality rose again from second-class municipality to first-class municipality. In the 2001 elections, Nicolas ran for Representative of the 4th Congressional District of Bulacan and won a landslide victory with more than 80,000 votes over her closest rival. Nicolas was succeeded by Bartolome R. Ramos.\n\nDuring the 2004 elections, Jesus Mateo defeated the incumbent Ramos and became mayor of the municipality until 2007. One of Mateo's accomplishments as mayor of Santa Maria was the establishment of the Polytechnic University of the Philippines – Santa Maria extension campus in 2005. In 2007 elections, Bartolome R. Ramos defeated Mateo and became mayor of the municipality again.\n\nThe municipality of Santa Maria lies north-east of Manila and is located at the eastern portion of Bulacan. The town is bounded on the north by the municipalities of Angat and Pandi; portion of San Jose del Monte City on the south; Norzagaray and other portions of San Jose del Monte on the east; and the municipalities of Marilao and Bocaue on the western side. Santa Maria is away from Malolos City, the provincial capital, and from San Fernando, Pampanga, the regional centre of Central Luzon.\n\nSanta Maria has a land area of about . The town is generally plain although hilly at the northern portion. It has a lone body of water – the Santa Maria River.\n\nThe topography of Santa Maria is generally flat, however, it is becoming hilly towards the north. This area covers the barangays of Silangan, Mag-asawang Sapa, Pulong Buhangin and some parts of Balasing with landscape ranging from 8 to 18 percent slope. The rest of the barangays have a slope range from level to undulating.\n\nMost of the barangays in the municipality of Santa Maria have low susceptibility to flooding. Those with portion with moderate to high susceptibility to flooding are located along the Santa Maria River and near or adjacent to creeks that are tributaries of the Santa Maria River.\n\nThere are 18 barangays with low susceptibility to flooding in the municipality (Manggahan, Santa Cruz, Caypombo, Caysio, Pulong Buhangin, Magasawang Sapa, Silangan, Balasing, Parada, Tumana, Mahabang Parang, Bulac, Catmon, San Vicente, Camangyanan, Santo Tomas, Buenavista and San Gabriel). The barangay centers and populated areas in the barangays have low susceptibility to flooding. The portions of the barangays usually inundated are the generally low-lying areas and catchment areas of the barangays and near active creeks and rivers.\n\nBasically agricultural, about or 30.54% of the town's land area is devoted to crop production. Approximately of riceland in Santa Maria are rain-fed and are irrigated. An area of are classified as non-productive agricultural area or open grasslands.\n\nThe town has rich deposits of gravel and sand and volcanic tuff or \"adobe.\" Quarrying has been a good source of livelihood among the citizens.\n\nDue to its location near Metro Manila, rainfall and climate in Santa Maria is almost similar to the country's capital Manila. The location of Santa Maria in the western side of the Philippines made Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAG-ASA) to classify its weather scheme as \"Type I\". Wind coming from the Pacific Ocean is generally blocked by the Sierra Madre mountain range, a few kilometers east of the municipality.\n\nIts proximity to the equator tends to make its temperature to rise and fall into very small range: from as low as to as high as . The Köppen climate system classifies Santa Maria climate as tropical monsoon (\"Am\") due to its location and precipitation characteristics. This means that the municipality has two pronounced seasons: dry and wet seasons. The municipality's driest months are from November to April where it receives less than of rainfall. On the other hand, maximum rain period is from June to September where it receives not more than of rainfall. Hail and snow is not observed in the municipality.\n\nHumidity levels are usually high in the morning, especially during June to November, which makes it feel warmer. Lowest humidity levels are recorded in the evening during wet season. Discomfort from heat and humidity is extreme during May and June, otherwise it is higher compared to other places in the country. Average sunlight is maximum at 254.25 hours during April and minimum at 113 hours during July, August and September.\n\nSanta Maria is composed of 24 barangays, the smallest administrative unit in the municipality. A barangay is equivalent to American village and British ward, and is headed by the barangay captain (\"punong barangay\") and his council (\"kagawad\") duly elected by the residents.\n\nIn the , the population of Santa Maria, Bulacan, was people, with a density of . It is the largest among the municipalities in the Central Luzon Region in terms of population.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, the population of Santa Maria grew by 74,069 from 144,282 in 2000 to 218,351 in 2010, making it the third biggest LGU in Bulacan in terms of population. The municipality had a population density of 2,401.44 persons per km² in 24 Barangays.\n\nThe majority of the population are Christians. Roman Catholicism is the dominant religion with 91% of the populace professed themselves as Roman Catholics. Santa Maria is under the jurisdiction of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Malolos. There are seven parishes and one quasi-parish in Santa Maria namely: Immaculate Conception – Poblacion, Santa Maria, Bulacan; Our Lady of Mount Carmel – Pulong Buhangin, Santa Maria, Bulacan; Santo Niño – Parada, Santa Maria, Bulacan; St. Gabriel the Archangel – San Gabriel, Santa Maria, Bulacan; Holy Family – Catmon, Santa Maria, Bulacan; St. John the Evangelist – Bagbaguin, Santa Maria, Bulacan; Blessed Sacrament – Cay Pombo, Santa Maria, Bulacan and San Isidro Labrador – Partida, Pulong Buhangin, Santa Maria, Bulacan – (QUASI-PARISH). The majority of villages in each barangays have their own chapel and patron saint.\n\nOther religious groups with strong presence in the municipality are the following: Members Church of God International, Iglesia ni Cristo, United Methodist Church, The Church of God, Jehovah's Witness, Jesus Is Lord Church and other evangelical or \"born-again\" groups, Pentecostal, Islam, and others.\n\nThe Members Church of God International, or popularly known as Ang Dating Daan, has multiple coordinating centers or locales in the municipality, namely: Poblacion, Balasing (located in Pulong Buhangin near their border), Bulac, Cay Pombo, Caysio, Gardenville (Pulong Buhangin), and Parada. Although a locale is named after a barangay, members come from the barangay itself and neighboring barangays. For example, the locale of Bulac has members from nearby Catmon and Sapang Palay Proper (San Jose Del Monte City).\n\nUNTV Public Service channel and Members Church of God International has provided many public service activities to Santa Maria such as tree planting, blood letting, free medical missions and free legal consultations. Thousands of residents have benefited from the charity events.\n\nThere are about 45 subdivisions in the municipality of low, medium and high density category. The existing residential hub occupies 1,360 hectares (13.60 km²) of land distributed unevenly in its 12 barangays. These subdivisions used to occupy the stretch of the roads but now they are now developing the inner portions of their barangays. It is expected that within the next ten years, land use development in Santa Maria will represent the sub-urban mix which means that the government will provide development where the level of accessibility is very high. This will provide for the clustering of lower density land uses to help meet housing, employment and public services needs of the people.\n\nSanta Maria is one of the municipalities in Bulacan with a high population growth rate due to in migration. Its rapid population growth contributes largely to the establishment of more commercial and trading activities as some people see this as an opportunity for business. Industries in Santa Maria include agribusiness, food processing, cottage making, banking, fireworks making, rubber, and textile making.\n\nThe public market at Poblacion and the private market in Pulong Buhangin are the major areas for the exchange of goods and services.\n\nOn March 3, 2003, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo issued Presidential Proclamation No. 337 designating the Santa María Industrial Park as a Special Economic Zone (Ecozone).\n\nRice, orchard products, corn, vegetables, hogs, cattle, and poultry, and freshwater fish are the major agricultural products of the municipality.\n\nThere are about 36 food processing establishments in Santa María.\n\nIndustrial activities in Santa María are mostly agro-based. For the past two decades, there has been a great boom in its poultry and hog raising industries. Presently, there are around more than 150 poultry and piggery farms.\n\nThe boost in agri-business necessitated the establishment of feed mills and feed trading centres. There are eight commercial feed mills and 15 feed trading centres operating in the town.\n\nThere are 20 rice mills in Santa María that accommodate the milling and storage needs of the farmers for their palay harvest.\n\nThere are 10 furniture-making establishments in the town.\n\nThere are 28 pyrotechnics manufacturers, 5 textile, 87 garment factories, and 9 rubber industries operating in the municipality.\n\nLike other municipalities in the Philippines, Santa Maria is governed by a mayor and vice mayor who are elected to three-year terms. The mayor is the executive head who leads the municipality's departments in the implementation of municipal ordinances and in the delivery of public services. The vice mayor heads a legislative council that is composed of 10 members: 8 councilors and two \"ex-officio\" officers: one for the Sangguniang Kabataan Federation President, representing the youth sector, and one for the Association of Barangay Chairmen President as the barangay sectoral representative. The council is in charge of creating the municipality's policies in the form of ordinances and resolutions.\n\nSanta Maria is part of the 4th District of Bulacan.\n\nSanta Maria is home to ten resorts located in barangays Pulong Buhangin, Balasing, Catmon, Bulac, Mahabang Parang, Tumana and Lalakhan. These resorts have become the main destinations of the residents from Metro Manila and Santa Maria’s nearby towns for their leisure and summer experience. Facilities like swimming pools, convention/seminar rooms, hotel, cottages, and spacious parking spaces that could accommodate fifty buses at a time equipped these resorts. Some resorts accommodate local and foreign tourist for live-in accommodations.\n\nIn 2005, over 138,000 tourists visited the resorts in Santa Maria. Sitio Lucia Resort situated in Pulong Buhangin attracted 36 percent of the total volume of resort visitors. 4K Garden Resort of Barangay Catmon came next with 29 percent share. The Summer Resort in Barangay Mahabang Parang settled at the bottom with 2 percent contribution.\n\n\nThe town fiesta of Santa Maria in honor of its Patroness, the Purisima Concepcion is a month-long celebration in February which clearly shows the Marian devotion of the town. The movable feast is held on the Thursday after February 2 which tradition refers to as La Candelaria. It is preceded by the traditional novena of Masses before the feast and High Masses and processions on the Sundays of the month.\n\nThroughout the month several other events are held such as musical variety shows led by popular personalities, outdoor sports exhibitions of nationally acclaimed players, concerts by well known bands and cultural shows.\n\nMost notable during the month of February is the availability of \"\"Tuge\"\", a ready to eat root crop sold by vendors that signify the ambiance of the festivity together with the cool breeze which last right after the celebration of the town fiesta.\n\nThe joyous celebration of February takes on a somber mood as the liturgical calendar moves on to Cuaresma or Lent.\n\nApparently, the devotion was brought by the Franciscans who evangelized the town where the principal celebrations before the War was celebrated at the Lourdes Church which was then in Intramuros. Lost during the War, it was revived by the Hermandad y Cofradia de la Sagrada Pasion y de Maria Santisima de la Esperanza, a confraternity organized in 1999 to spearhead the revival and promotion of the Lenten traditions of Santa Maria from the Jubilee Year 2000 onwards. Incidentally, the Hermandad de la Sagrada Pasion has been an affiliate of the Hermandad de la Macarena in Seville, Spain since 2008 making it the twenty first confraternity to be recognized, the second outside of Spain and the first in Asia.\n\nThe Philippine Arena is a multi-purpose indoor arena at Ciudad de Victoria, a 75-hectare tourism enterprise zone located in the towns of Santa Maria and Bocaue, Bulacan. With a capacity of up to 55,000, it was the centerpiece of the Iglesia Ni Cristo's (INC) centennial, which was celebrated on July 27, 2014.\n\nSports and recreation activities in the locality are usually basketball, softball, bowling, badminton, tennis and chess. The most common sports and recreational facilities in the town are basketball courts located in school compounds and in other part of 24 barangays. These courts also serve as multi-purpose pavements. A tennis court and a gymnasium named after the late Ricardo D. Nicolas, Jr. was constructed at the FFHNAS campus in Barangay Guyong. There are also two badminton courts in the town.\n\nSanta Maria has one public wet and dry market, the \"Pamilihang Bayan ng Santa Maria\", in Poblacion and several private wet and dry markets (one each in Cay Pombo and in Pulong Buhangin).\n\nThe mall has a supermarket (Waltermart Supermarket), Kiosks (Jr. Memoxpress), department store (mi Department Store), school and office supplies store Expressions, bookstore (National Bookstore), drugstore (Mercury Drug), 3 state-of-the-art cinemas, hardware (Handyman), and several restaurants (Jollibee, KFC, Chowking, Mang Inasal, Greenwich, etc.). Convenience stores can also be found in the neighborhoods of the municipality.\n\nAs of 2004, Santa Maria has a network of ten (10) bridges passing rivers and other waterways of the town. All are made of reinforced concrete design girders which are in good condition and passable.\n\nCommunication facilities in Santa Maria are provided by government telegraph (BUTEL), postal system, the Philippine Long Distance and Telephone Company (PLDT), Radio City Telephone Company (RACITELCOM), Digitel telephone Company, the three major cellular companies (Smart Communications, Globe Telecom, Sun Cellular) and two MVNO: (Talk N' Text and Touch Mobile).\n\nWater supply is provided by LWUA (Local Water Utilities Administration) through the Santa Maria Water District.\n\nThe Manila Electric Company (MERALCO) is the sole electric distributor in Santa Maria.\n\nSanta Maria has one government-run hospital and seven private hospitals.\n\nSanta Maria also have veterinary clinics and an animal pet corner center.\n\nThese veterinary clinics handle farm animals and pets. Services range from simple to major surgeries, microchip implantation, vaccinations, laboratory works, confinements, emergency cases, and grooming.\n\nSanta Maria is generally peaceful being served by 51 policemen and 15 firemen. The backlog of manpower requirement is complemented with 480 \"barangay tanods\" coming from 24 barangays. Crime incidence is low with 37 cases reported and 33 case were solve resulting to 89.19% crime solution efficiency.\n\nSanta Maria is part of Division of Bulacan under the Department of Education (DepEd). There are 32 public elementary schools and 5 public secondary schools in the municipality. The public schools are divided into three educational districts for representative purposes. Private schools can also be found in the municipality.\n\nThere are two tertiary institutions in the municipality. The Polytechnic University of the Philippines operates a campus in Santa Maria.\n\n\nSanta Maria is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004746", "title": "Jannali railway station", "text": "Jannali railway station\n\nJannali railway station is located on the Illawarra line, serving the Sydney suburb of Jannali. It is served by Sydney Trains T4 line services.\n\nJannali station opened on 7 February 1931. The development was requested and largely funded by Sutherland Shire Council. The road bridge over the railway at Jannali was constructed at the same time as the station.\n\nA minor upgrade was completed in April 2013. Improvements included redesigning and rebuilding the ramp on the western side of the station and upgrading the footpath on the eastern side of the station.\n\nThe station received a more substantial upgrade in 2017, when a footbridge with lifts was built.\n\nTransdev NSW operates two routes via Jannali station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2004761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004761", "title": "Minto railway station", "text": "Minto railway station\n\nMinto station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Minto. It is served by Sydney Trains T8 Airport & South line services.\n\nMinto station opened in May 1874 as Campbellfields, being renamed on 1 March 1882.\n\nThe Southern Sydney Freight Line passes by the western side of the station. As part of its construction work, Minto received an upgrade with lifts to the platforms.\n\nSince the second half of 2017, Minto railway station has been served exclusively by the Airport and East Hills line, meaning commuters have to change at Glenfield to travel to either the city via Granville or to Blacktown via the Cumberland Line.\n\nSince 2013, long distance freight trains have had their own separate track, the Southern Sydney Freight Line.\n\nAn Inland port is located south of Minto station. It consists of a crossover and a siding. Because there are no facilities for locomotives to change ends of the train, the container trains must have engines at both ends.\n\nBusabout operates one route via Minto station:\n\nInterline Bus Services operate four routes via Minto station:\n\nMinto station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2004766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004766", "title": "Party for Neighbourly Love, Freedom, and Diversity", "text": "Party for Neighbourly Love, Freedom, and Diversity\n\nThe Party for Neighbourly Love, Freedom, and Diversity or The Charity, Freedom and Diversity Party (\"Partij voor Naastenliefde, Vrijheid en Diversiteit\", PNVD) was a Dutch political party with no representation in parliament, and only three known members. It was commonly known as \"\"pedopartij\"\" (\"pedo party\") in the media, due to its advocacy for legalization of child pornography and the lowering of the age of consent to age 12. PNVD was founded on 31 May 2006 by three self-described pedophiles. Its motto is \"sapere aude\" (\"Have courage to use your own reason\"). PNVD has not participated in any election. In 2006, it did not receive the 30 signatures from each of the 19 Dutch electoral regions it would need to get on the ballot for the 2006 elections. On March 14, 2010, the party was dissolved.\n\nThe party was restarted in January 2020, with its website proclaiming \"the PNVD is returning in early 2020\". Its leader Marthijn Uittenbogaard has announced he will not be a part of the party due to a police raid at his home. \n\nAccording to their official statement, the PNVD's platform aimed to maximize diversity and liberty. They proposed allowing individuals, from the age of 12, to vote, have sex, gamble, choose their place of residence, and use soft drugs. Hard drugs would be legal at 16, as that would be the new age of majority. They also intended to eliminate marriage in the law, permit public nudity anywhere in the country, make railway travel free, and institute a comprehensive animal rights platform. They were opposed to immigration and religious elementary schools.\n\nThe PNVD sought to have the legal age of consent lowered to 12, and, in the long run, completely eliminated (except in dependent or intrafamilial relationships). They reason that only \"coerced\" or \"dangerous\" sexual activity should be punished. They also aimed to equalize the legal age where one can perform in pornography with the legal age of consent. Prostitution would be legal at the age of 16. The PNVD wanted to legalise private use of child pornography (calling outlawing thereof \"censorship\" in the platform) and allow non-violent pornography to be screened on daytime television. Their platform also included legalization of humans engaging in sex with animals.\n\nTreasurer Van den Berg claimed that, \"Rearing is also about introducing children to sex\". Because of their controversial viewpoints on children and sexuality, they were often called the \"paedo-party\" by the people and in the media.\n\nAlso, the party's platform called for separate imprisonment facilities for sex offenders, arguing that the country would otherwise have indirect torture laws.\n\nThe PNVD ultimately aimed to establish a universal treaty guaranteeing all animals basic rights.\n\nIn addition, the party planned to heavily restrict animal testing and completely prohibit the consumption of meat and fish: they viewed the killing of animals, no matter what purpose it serves, as murder. Industries currently depending on the sale of animal meat would receive provisional financial support from the government. Hunting and fishing for sport would also be banned. The party also supported laws criminalizing the \"sexual maltreatment\" of animals.\n\nMultiple positions taken by the PNVD were controversial, especially those concerning children. In a May 2006 opinion poll, 82% of respondents wanted the Dutch government to stop the party from competing in the elections. The anti-pedophile foundation \"Soelaas\" petitioned the courts to ban the party, but the judges ruled in the PNVD's\nfavour. \"The freedom of expression, the freedom of assembly and the freedom of association … should be seen as the foundations of the democratic rule of law and the PNVD is also entitled to these freedoms,\" the court said in a statement.\nThe party's ties to paedophile activism have also drawn much attention: Marthijn Uittenbogaard (who also starred in the controversial documentary \"Are All Men Pedophiles?\") was earlier the treasurer of Vereniging MARTIJN, an organization which advocates romantic and sexual relationships between adults and children, and all of its founders have identified as pedophiles. The treasurer, Ad van den Berg (then 43), was convicted in 1987 for molesting an 11-year-old boy. He was fined and given a suspended prison sentence. The Dutch television show \"Netwerk\" monitored Van den Berg for three months. They discovered that he still has an under-age boyfriend.\n\nIn June 2006, Norbert de Jonge was expelled from his special education course at the Radboud University Nijmegen, owing to his involvement with the party and identification as a pedophile.\n\nThe Dutch Zoo Federation and which used the initials 'NVD' forced the party to switch to using the initials 'PNVD' to protect their reputation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004774", "title": "St. Paul's College (Manitoba)", "text": "St. Paul's College (Manitoba)\n\nSt. Paul's College is a Roman Catholic College on the Fort Garry campus of the University of Manitoba and is the major Catholic higher education institution in the Province of Manitoba.\n\nSt. Paul's College on the University of Manitoba campus is the major Catholic higher education institution in Manitoba.\n\nIn 1926 the Oblate Fathers, with a staff of six and a student body of one hundred, opened St. Paul's College as the first English Catholic High School for boys in the Province of Manitoba. Fr. Alphonse Simon, OMI was the first Rector. There was a rapid increase in students and the building on Selkirk Avenue soon proved inadequate. In 1931 Archbishop Sinnott, who had worked tirelessly to get the College started from as early as 1916, purchased the old Manitoba College (which had opened in 1882) at the corner of Ellice and Vaughan Streets in downtown Winnipeg and the College moved to this new location. The direction of the College passed into the hands of the diocesan clergy and Fr. C. B. Collins was appointed Rector. In the same year, the College became affiliated with the University of Manitoba.\n\nThe University of Manitoba, as founded in 1877, was a federation of three denominational colleges: St. Boniface (Catholic), St. John's (Anglican), and Manitoba (Presbyterian). In 1888 Wesley College (Methodist) became affiliated. On October 27, 1931, at the time of its affiliation, St. Paul's had a staff of 15 (eight priests and seven laymen), and a total of twelve students in the University program. The University of Manitoba Yearbook for 1932, The Brown and Gold, displays the photographs of the first two graduates of the College.\n\nAt the request of the Archbishop, the Jesuit Fathers undertook direction of the College in 1933. Fr. John Holland, S.J., was appointed Rector, and Fr. Erle Bartlett, S.J. was appointed Dean of Studies. Their photographs and those of their successors line the corridor of the administrative wing of the College. In 1936, St. Mary's College for Women became the women's division of St. Paul's, until the College opened on the Fort Garry campus in 1957 when it became co-educational and St. Mary's eventually withdrew from university work.\n\nThe facilities available to the College on Ellice Avenue were never fully adequate. Largely through the generosity of Mrs. Margaret Shea, a new unit, Paul Shea Hall, had been erected, providing a separate High School building in 1932. In 1939, six more classrooms were added and paid for through the Archdiocese and generous friends of the College. By the mid-1940s, students were being turned away because of the lack of space. A building fund drive at that time was not particularly successful and attention was turned again to relocating on the University of Manitoba campus with whom ongoing negotiations about relocation had been taking place. Following a pressing invitation from the University in 1954, there was much discussion and finally a decision was made in 1956 to accept the University's offer. In 1957 a 99-year lease for land on the campus was signed and a cornerstone was laid and blessed by Archbishop Pocock. At that ceremony, the Honourable Mr. Miller, Minister of Education, speaking on behalf of the government, congratulated the College for undertaking the move and added to the Archbishop's blessing \"if you want governmental blessing, you have it.\" The Canada council contributed $100,000 towards the construction costs. The architect was Mr. Peter Thornton, the contractors were Wallace and Aikens.\n\nIn the fall of 1958, the basic buildings and administrative offices containing classrooms, library, cafeteria, faculty offices, and the chapel were ready for the first students. About 200 registered that year.\n\nIn 1962 the Science Wing was added, containing well-furnished laboratories, further class rooms, and faculty offices. The student cafeteria was extended in 1964 and the Residence of the Jesuit Fathers was added. 1972 saw the construction of our beautiful library, a theatre to seat 200, and the addition of further classroom and faculty office space. A larger library and a student residence were part of the original plan, but were never constructed.\n\nPresently the College is under the direction of the St. Paul's Corporation and an 18-person Board of Governors. The Archbishop of Winnipeg is the College Chancellor and the College continues to value its commitment as a Catholic College in the Jesuit tradition.\n\nThe new millennium saw the construction of the Arthur V. Mauro Centre for Peace and Justice - an addition that provides graduate and undergraduate studies in peace-building and conflict-resolution. These programs that will help the community close to home and around the globe.\n\nThe Government of Canada sponsors an Aboriginal Bursaries Search Tool that lists over 680 scholarships, bursaries, and other incentives offered by governments, universities, and industry to support Aboriginal post-secondary participation. St. Paul's College scholarships for Aboriginal, First Nations and Métis students include: Sundance Aboriginal Student Award.\n\nThe Arthur V. Mauro Centre at St. Paul's College, University of Manitoba, is dedicated to the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution, global citizenship, peace, and social justice through research, education, and outreach.\n\nThe Mauro Centre's initial emphases has been the cultural, religious, and philosophical dimensions of peace; social, economic, and environmental justice; peace education; human rights; and the role of international organizations and standards in the quest for peace and justice. The Centre is also interested in the role of the Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in pointing ways for people to live in peace and harmony in a post-modern world.\n\nThe Joint M.A. Program in Peace and Conflict Studies (governed jointly by the University of Manitoba and the University of Winnipeg) is housed at the Mauro Centre (U of M) and the Global College (U of W).\n\nThe Centre is home to the University of Manitoba's Ph.D. Program in Peace and Conflict Studies, which seeks to prepare leaders in a multiplicity of contexts who make a difference locally, nationally, and globally.\n\nStorytelling for Peace and Renewing Community (SPARC) is an initiative of the Centre that encompasses the Winnipeg International Storytelling Festival: Storytelling on the Path to Peace; the Youth Forum on Human Rights, Peace, and Social Justice; a 6-credit master's-level Summer Institute on Storytelling for Peace and Human Rights; and the Mauro Centre Storytelling Working Group.\n\nThe Near Eastern and Biblical Archaeology Laboratory (NEBAL) was established in 2010 by St. Paul’s College at the University of Manitoba. The goal is to have a single integrated location for the study of the ancient cultures of the Near East and eastern Mediterranean. It provides a focus for seminars and lectures related to Near Eastern and Biblical Studies at the University of Manitoba. All related archaeological remains scattered throughout the university are being gathered in this location for analysis and curation. NEBAL also provides a single integrated research and administrative facility for faculty and students.\n\nThe Fr. Harold Drake Library at St. Paul's College focuses on supporting the teaching and research needs of staff and students at St. Paul's College including the University One programme, the Jesuit Centre for Catholic Studies and the Arthur V. Mauro Centre for Peace and Justice.\n\nThe Library holds over 70,000 volumes including the following special collections:\n\nCatholic Studies: Theology and history of the Catholic Church, contemporary Catholic issues.\nMedieval Studies\nPhilosophy (including Bernard Lonergan)\nPeace and Conflict Studies\nHistory (European, British, Canadian)\nFrench literature (20th century) and English literature\n\nThe Fr. Harold Drake Library offers a full range of library services including access to the entire University of Manitoba Libraries collections, reference and reserve services, patron print, scanning and photocopying. The Library’s attractive and comfortable study facilities offer a supportive work environment. The Library’s collections and services are open to all University of Manitoba Libraries patrons.\n\nThe historical relationships and ongoing encounters that the members of the Roman Catholic Church have had with disciplines such as history, the arts and sciences, as well as human thought comprise the framework around which the Catholic Studies program is formed.\n\nThe Catholic Studies program at St. Paul's College was designed as an interdisciplinary unit that fosters an intellectual and academic approach to Catholicism. It seeks to explore the Catholic tradition in ways that do justice to its full contributions and challenges as a historical and contemporary phenomenon. In order to provide crucial perspectives on the Catholic culture, the program itself includes the findings of many academic disciplines such as Religion, History, Fine Arts, and Philosophy.\n\nThe Catholic Studies Program appeals to students from a wide variety of intellectual and religious backgrounds. Its goal is to study, explore, and engage Catholicism in all its social, political, and religious complexities. The program is aimed at students who wish to pursue Catholic Studies as a minor as well as for those students who only want to take one or two courses that would expand and deepen their understanding of Catholicism.\n\nThe St. Paul's College Students' Association (SPCSA) consists of students pursuing any program of study at U of M, who are registered members of the college. SPCSA members are elected annually by students. Its purpose is to organize and promote events and special initiatives, and represent students' interests (academic, spiritual, and social). SPCSA relies on the active involvement and interest of the students.\n\nEvents are planned throughout the year such as an Welcome Back BBQ, Sibling Rivalry BBQ with St. John's College, Back to School Bash,Valentine's Day Bash, St. Patrick's Day Bash, and closing ceremonies. All students, faculty and staff at U of M are welcome to attend social events at St. Paul's College.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004775", "title": "Leumeah railway station", "text": "Leumeah railway station\n\nLeumeah station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Leumeah. It is served by Sydney Trains T8 Airport & South line services.\n\nLeumeah station opened in 1886. The station is the main access station for Campbelltown Stadium, home of the Wests Tigers National Rugby League team and the Western Suburbs Magpies.\n\nIn January 2013, the Southern Sydney Freight Line opened to the west of the station.\n\nSince the second half of 2017, Leumeah railway station has been served exclusively by the Airport and East Hills line, meaning commuters have to change at Glenfield to travel to either the city via Granville station or to Blacktown station via the Cumberland Line.\n\nBusabout operate two routes via Leumeah station:\n\nInterline Bus Services operate three routes via Leumeah station:\n\nLeumeah station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "2004784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004784", "title": "Kathiawari horse", "text": "Kathiawari horse\n\nThe Kathiawari or Kathiawadi () is a breed of horse from the Kathiawar peninsula in western India. It is associated with the Kathi people of that area. It was originally bred as a desert war horse for use over long distances, in rough terrain, on minimal rations. It is closely related to the Marwari horses of Rajasthan; both breeds have been influenced by imported Arab horses. It is found in all colours except for black, and is most commonly chestnut. Its numbers diminished after Indian independence, and today there are few Kathiawaris left. In the past it was used as a war horse and cavalry mount. Today it is used for riding, in harness and for sports; it may be used as a police horse and for the sport of tent-pegging. A breed register is kept by the Kathiawari Horse Breeders' Association, which also organises annual shows.\n\nThe average height at the withers is . Height should not be more than about ; taller horses may seem coarse. Chestnut is the most common colour, followed by bay, grey and dun. Dun horses may have primitive markings, a dorsal stripe and zebra stripes on the legs. The black color does not appear in the breed. Skewbald patterns can occur. The Kathiawari has a concave facial profile, with a broad forehead and short muzzle. The neck and body are proportional and relatively short, while both the head and tail are carried high. Although well-proportioned, many Western breeders consider them to be lacking in bone in the legs. However, soundness is an inherent characteristic of the breed. One of the breed's most distinctive features is its ears, which curve inward to touch and sometimes overlap at the tips. The Kathiawari has the most extremely curved ears of any breed of horse. At some points in the breed's history, breeders focused on the preservation of these curving ears, to the detriment of some other, more important, physical characteristics. Like many desert breeds, the Kathiawari can subsist on minimal rations and water and is more resistant to the heat than breeds developed in colder climates. As well as the usual gaits, the Kathiawari also performs a swift, lateral pace, called the \"revaal\". It is a high-spirited, intelligent and affectionate horse.\n\nThe Kathiawari is closely related to the Marwari breed from the Marwar region of Rajasthan, which borders with northern Gujarat. Genetic diversity analysis groups the two breeds, while the other four Indian horse breeds – the Bhutia, the Manipuri, the Spiti and the Zaniskari – form a distinct and separate group. The Kathiawari and the Marwari are also phenotypically similar; in particular, they have the same unusual in-curved ears. The Kathiawari is not as tall as the Marwari, and has a smaller thoracic circumference; it is most commonly chestnut, while the Marwari is usually black. Kathiawaris tend to have slight facial differences from the Marwari. The Kathiawari also resembles the Arab horse, which contributed significantly during the development of the breed.\n\nThe origins of the Kathiawari are unknown. There were indigenous horses on the western coast of India before the arrival in the early sixteenth century of the Turco-Mongol invaders who later established the Mughal Empire. Beginning during the Mughal reign, and continuing during the British Raj, Arab horses were imported to India and crossed with native stock, creating the ancestors of the modern Kathiawari breed. The Kathiawari may have also been influenced by the Mongolian horse. Traditionally, noble households specialised in their own strain of horses, naming their lines of horses after a foundation mare; 28 of these lines still exist. These noble houses selectively bred horses that could withstand extreme temperatures and minimal rations, carry a man with weapons and armour for long periods in rough terrain, and still be swift and nimble. They bred for wiry, sleek horses that were ideal for war, and Kathiawaris were noted for their loyalty and bravery in battle, often defending their riders even when wounded themselves. This breeding was maintained until the Independence of India.\n\nAlthough still mainly bred in the Kathiawar peninsula, it is also found in the Maharashtra and Rajasthan states. The Kathiawari Horse Breeders' Association maintains a register. The Gujarat government maintains stud farms in eleven different locations; one in Junagadh holds both mares and stallions and is tasked with preserving the breed, while the other ten hold Kathiawari stallions that are used for improving the local stock of other or mixed breeds. In 2007, only about 50 Kathiawaris were held by private breeders.Today, the Panchaal region is renowned for its Kathiawari horses, often producing the most beautiful horses of the breed.\n\nIn 2007 the conservation status of the Kathiawari was listed as \"not at risk\" by the FAO. No breed numbers have been reported to DAD-IS since 1997, when there were about 7500. A breed standard was drawn up in 2008.\n\nIn the past, the Kathiawari was considered a good cavalry mount. It was used by Maratha cavalry, and later – until the end of the First World War – by the Indian Army. In modern times it is used as a riding horse or as a harness horse. Some are used by Indian police forces, sometimes for tent-pegging, to which the Kathiawari is well suited. In 1995, annual breed shows were hosted by the breed association.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004786", "title": "Okean Elzy", "text": "Okean Elzy\n\nOkean Elzy (, translation: \"Elza's Ocean\") is a Ukrainian rock band. It was formed in 1994 in Lviv, Ukraine. The band's vocalist and frontman is Svyatoslav Vakarchuk. In April 2007 Okean Elzy received \"FUZZ Magazine\" music awards for \"Best rock act\".\n\nThe band Okean Elzy was founded in 1994 by four young men from Lviv; who were former members of the band Klan Tyshi (, translation: \"Clan of Silence\") which was founded in 1991. The original line-up featured a lead vocal, lead guitar, bass guitar and drums. Throughout 1994 the band spent their time rehearsing.\n\nTheir first concert took place in front of the Lviv Opera Theatre on 14 January 1995. Shortly after that appearance they released a demo tape called 'DEMO 94-95'. In 1995 they also participated for the first time in the two biggest (at the time) Ukrainian music festivals - Chervona Ruta and Melodiya, also participated in \"Is\", a personal project of Lviv musician Oleg Sook, performed the song Long time ago.\n\nIn 1996 the band establish themselves on the festival circuit in Ukraine and beyond. Okean Elzy participated at Sribna Pidkova Festival, Alternative 2, Perlyny Sezonu, Tavriyski Ihry, Trust Open Air Gernsbach (Germany), Trash 96, and R.F.I. 96 (France).\n\nIn 1996 Okean Elzy also held their first concert outside Lviv. Their first appearance in the capital Kyiv took place in 1996 where they supported Deep Purple. In November–December of that year they recorded and released the group's first maxi-single \"Budynok zi skla\" (\"House of glass\"). Shortly afterwards the first movie about the group was made by TV Channel TET and was broadcast nationally.\n\n1997 saw tours in the south of France and in the west of Germany. Back to Ukraine they held a concert in their hometown of Lviv, drawing massive crowds.\n\nThe band's big break came in 1998, when they made the decision to move to Kyiv. There they started working on their first album \"Tam, de nas nema\" (\"There, where we are not\"). The group's first music video was recorded for the song \"Tam, de nas nema\". This video was the first piece of modern Ukrainian music to make its mark on MTV Russia, as well as France's MCM Channel.\n\nAt the very beginning of 1999, Okean Elzy started working on their second album \"Ya na nebi buv\" (\"I was in the sky\"). In May the group decided to try to expand their fan base into Russia. Their first concert was at the festival Maxidrom. There were thousands of people there who already knew their songs, with many singing along.\n\nOn 16 September they played a solo concert at the MCM Cafe in Paris.\n\nIn 2000 exactly one year after they started working on \"Ya na nebi buv\" the album was released.\n\nOn 5 February Okean Elzy held a solo concert at legendary Astoria Club (London). In March the keyboard player joined the band.\n\nIn 2001 Okean Elzy became new face of Pepsi Cola in Ukraine as the new millennium dawned. They have released their third album \"Model\". They started a big tour around Ukraine called \"Ask For More\". In August they started working on their fourth album - \"Supersymetriya\" (\"Supersymmetry\"). The album was eventually released in 2003 and immediately the group embarked on their biggest tour ever.\n\nAt the end of 2003 Svyatoslav Vakarchuk as the frontman of the band became an official Ambassador of Ukrainian Culture.\n\nIn 2004 Denys Dudko (one of the best jazz bass players in Ukraine) and Miloš Jelić (composer from Novi Sad, Serbia) joined the band.\n\nDuring the \"Orange Revolution\" Okean Elzy actively supported the democratic changes which the population were demanding, with Slava emerging as a figurehead of the revolution.\n\nIn 2005 Petro Cherniavsky joined the band.\n\nOn September 22, 2005, Okean Elzy released their new album \"GLORIA\". After that the band went on tour (30 cities in Ukraine and 10 in Russia) with audio crew Sergey Kamenev, Alexandr Kostin, Yurii Barybin and Vyacheslav Lavrinenko.\n\nIn September 2005, Vakarchuk became UN's Ambassador of Good Will. Also, in September Okean Elzy started joint campaign with IOM and MTV Europe Foundation – fighting human trafficking. Svyatoslav Vakarchuk as UN's Ambassador of Goodwill during 2006 year had different meetings with students at Ukrainian and Poland universities. Now Vakarchuk provides a huge social project running to propagate reading as a natural process. The general idea of this project is to draw the attention of young people to books and help fight illiteracy.\n\nIn November 2006, Okean Elzy visited Kosovo, where musicians had a concert for peace makers from Ukraine, Poland, Germany, United States and other countries, which include international contingent of peace makers.\n\nDuring the Football World Cup 2006 in Germany Okean Elzy actively supported the Ukrainian national team and cheered the fans with their songs. The last song of the band called \"Veseli, brate, chasy nastaly...\" (\"Oh, brother, merry times came...\") as always made a huge splash in Ukraine. The song and the video were released as a single and all money profited would be donated to the child care center treating AIDS. Charity activities play a major role in OE's life.\n\nIn April 2006 OE went on tour, which includes Chicago, New York City and Toronto, where thousands sang along their songs.\n\nOn April 25, 2007, Okean Elzy released a new album \"Mira\" (\"Measure\"). After that the band went on a huge nationwide tour. During the month they held tremendous concerts in 27 Ukrainian cities. The outstanding feature about \"Mira\" was that all the concerts were held at large cities, mostly stadiums and sports palaces. The concerts were attended by more than 120,000 fans, which has become a record for the group. For the two Kiev concerts the attendance was about 24,000 total. In the history of Ukraine only Okean Elzy \"for the second time (after round of \"GLORIA\") brought so many people in one place in such a short time.\n\nIn 2010 Okean Elzy went on their Dolce Vita Tour, in support of their latest album \"Dolce Vita\", which included over one hundred concerts in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Europe and North America.\n\nIn December 2013 the band performed during Euromaidan-protests.\n\nIn 2013, Okean Elzy announced on their website a new album and new tour through Ukraine.\n\nOn June 21, 2014, for their 20th anniversary Okean Elzy performed in front of 70,000 fans in Kyiv at NSC Olimpiyskiy. This concert was the largest in Ukrainian history.\n\nSince the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea the band stopped performing in Russia, being one of the few Ukrainian bands to do so.\n\nOn August, 24 the band had gathered around 100,000 fans on its concert at NSC Olimpiyskiy dedicated to Ukraine's independence day. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004787", "title": "Beatty, Oregon", "text": "Beatty, Oregon\n\nBeatty is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Klamath County, Oregon, United States. Beatty is along Oregon Route 140 at the confluence of the Sycan and Sprague rivers and is by highway northeast of Klamath Falls.\n\nBeatty was named for J. L. Beatty, a missionary who lived nearby when the area was in the Klamath Indian Reservation. The post office in Beatty, ZIP code 97621, was established in 1913. Toby \"Winema\" Riddle is buried near Beatty.\n\nBeatty had a station on the Oregon, California and Eastern Railway, which by 1927 reached from Klamath Falls to Bly. A 1941 timetable lists Beatty as the 13th stop east of Klamath Falls between Sprague River and Sycan. After 1990, the rail line passing near Beatty became part of a rail trail, the OC&E Woods Line State Trail, managed by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department.\n\nThis region experiences warm (but not hot) and dry summers, with no average monthly temperatures above . According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Beatty has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csb\" on climate maps.\n"}
{"id": "2004791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004791", "title": "Sprague River, Oregon", "text": "Sprague River, Oregon\n\nSprague River is an unincorporated community in Klamath County, Oregon, United States. It is about northeast of Klamath Falls near the Sprague River, northwest of Oregon Route 140.\n\nThe Sprague River was named for Captain Franklin B. Sprague, who participated in the Snake and Paiute Indian wars, and was in command of Fort Klamath in 1866. His name was applied to the river by 1864, and perhaps earlier. The Klamath name for the stream was \"Plai\" or \"Plaikni Koke\". \"Koke\" was the generic word for \"river\" and \"plai\" meant the river came from upper or higher country. Sprague River post office, named after the stream, was established September 14, 1923, with Benjamin E. Wolford as the first postmaster. There was an earlier post office named Sprague River farther east and upstream of the current community, at the site of the current town of Bly, Oregon \n\nSprague River had a station on the Oregon, California and Eastern Railway, which by 1927 reached from Klamath Falls to Bly. A 1941 timetable lists Sprague River as the 12th stop east of Klamath Falls between East Switch Back and Beatty. After 1990, the rail line near Sprague River became part of a rail trail, the OC&E Woods Line State Trail, managed by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department.\n\nAt one time there was a sawmill in Sprague River, which shut down in 1943. There was also a box factory.\n\nSprague River has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate (Csb) according to the Köppen climate classification system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004800", "title": "Choose the right", "text": "Choose the right\n\n\"Choose the Right\" is a saying or motto among members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) that is taught to children and used by members of the church as a reminder to make choices that will help an individual to live righteously. The phrase is taken from an LDS hymn Choose the Right.\n\nThe letters CTR, a reference to this phrase, are incorporated into a shield logo designed by Helen Alldredge, Margery Cannon and Lurene Wilkinson who were Primary General Board members in the 1960s. In 1970, a church committee headed by Naomi W. Randall recommended that the shield be incorporated into official church material. Since then, both the phrase and symbol have been used in religious educational materials for LDS youth of Primary age. The symbol is also used in LDS culture by members of all ages, both as a reminder of the motto, as well as an indicator of religious affiliation. The CTR initials, displayed on the shield and in other forms, can be seen mainly on CTR rings as well as other types of jewelry, tee shirts, bookmarks and stationery.\n\nAccording to the US Patent and Trademark Office, the LDS Church's stylized \"CTR\" abbreviation and shield with the CTR symbol are trademarked for use on finger ring jewelry by Intellectual Reserve. The phrase \"Choose the Right,\" however, is not trademarked in the United States and may be used by anyone for commercial purposes.\n\nA ring with the letters \"CTR\" on is often worn by members of the LDS Church as a reminder of the \"Choose the Right\" motto, and as a symbol of their religious affiliation.\n\nCTR rings were introduced at the same time as the CTR shield in 1970 by Primary general president LaVern W. Parmley after being recommended by a committee chaired by Naomi W. Randall. In connection with the children's Sunday School program, each LDS child in this age group is given an adjustable ring with a green escutcheon bearing the letters \"CTR\" in silver.\n\nOver the years CTR rings have become popular with both children and adults in the LDS Church. They are now available in a variety of designs in over 30 languages.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004804", "title": "Medscape", "text": "Medscape\n\nMedscape is a website providing access to medical information for clinicians; the organization also provides continuing education for physicians and health professionals. It references medical journal articles, CME (Continuing Medical Education), a version of the National Library of Medicine's MEDLINE database, medical news, and drug information (Medscape Drug Reference, or MDR). At one time Medscape published seven electronic peer reviewed journals.\n\nMedscape launched May 22 1995 by SCP Communications, Inc. under the direction of its CEO Peter Frishauf. In 1999, George D. Lundberg became the editor-in-chief of Medscape. For seventeen years before joining Medscape he had served as Editor of the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\".\n\nIn September 1999, Medscape, Inc. went public and began trading on NASDAQ under the symbol MSCP. In 2000, Medscape merged with MedicaLogic, Inc., another public company. MedicaLogic filed for bankruptcy within 18 months and sold Medscape to WebMD in December 2001. In 2008, Lundberg was terminated by WebMD. The following year the \"Medscape Journal of Medicine\" ceased publishing. In January 2013, Eric Topol was named editor-in-chief of Medscape. The same year, Lundberg returned to Medscape as editor-at-large.\n\nIn 2009, WebMD released an iOS application of Medscape, followed by an Android version two years later. In 2015, WebMD launched Medscape CME & Education on iOS.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004806", "title": "Regal Petroleum", "text": "Regal Petroleum\n\nRegal Petroleum plc is a petroleum company based in London with assets in Romania, Ukraine, Greece, and Egypt. It was founded by Frank Timiş in November 1996, and is listed on the London Alternative Investment Market.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004817", "title": "Commuter Cars Tango", "text": "Commuter Cars Tango\n\nThe Commuter Cars Tango is a series of prototype ultra-narrow electric sports car designed and built by Commuter Cars of Spokane, Washington.\n\nCommuter Cars was founded in Spokane, Washington by Rick Woodbury and his son Bryan Woodbury in 1998. Woodbury says his father came up with the original idea some time in the early 1980s. Woodbury learned that 106 million U.S. commuters were driving to work alone. He decided to produce a single occupant fast electric car. Starting in the 1980s, Woodbury started researching hydrogen power leading to fuel cells. The weight of fuel cells led to the idea of a stable, narrow vehicle with a low center of gravity. While waiting for fuel cell technology to catch up, he eventually settled on a design for the car to have individual small electric motors for each wheel. In his spare time, he worked on building his first car. In 1998, he sold his yacht to fund the company. He eventually settled on a plan to use parts that were already produced, instead of producing every part for the Commuter Cars. Commuter Cars uses various assemblies manufactured for other, more common cars. Among those assemblies is a safety cage made to NASCAR specifications.\nProduction of the first of their line of ultra-narrow electric sports cars began, the Tango T600. The company designed a small ( 69 in. long and 29 in. wide) electric cars. Commuter Cars said production of the first version, at a rate of about 100 cars per year, was set to begin in late 2005. Actor George Clooney took delivery of the first Tango kit on August 9, 2005, which was a major milestone for the company. Clooney appeared in the press with the car, explaining and promoting it. Difficulties with their UK manufacturer forced Commuter Cars to take over manufacturing themselves; for this reason the second vehicle did not ship until February 11, 2008, and was completely assembled in Spokane, Washington. The second car eventually found its way into the second-floor office of Google CEO Eric Schmidt as part of an April Fools' Day joke. \n\nBy 2008 Commuter Cars had only produced 10 cars which sold for an average of $121,000 each. The first production car was sold to actor George Clooney who took delivery on August 9, 2005. The company generated a significant amount of media interest with the sale to Clooney. However, that initial media attention did not lead to a production deal. \n\nIn 2010, the company entered the Progressive Insurance Automotive X Prize in the \"Alternative\" category. The vehicle entered was a Tango T600 owned by Google founder Sergey Brin, borrowed back for the competition. After passing many of the performance tests with ease, the car failed to complete the 100 mile durability run (one of the complicated set of requirements for the prize) and was eliminated from the competition. The company did not get a production deal with a manufacturer, and by 2014, fewer than 20 cars had been built in the United States.\n\nThroughout the company's history, Commuter Cars has had limited financial resources. When the company did generate a small profit, they reinvested the money in research and production capacity for their future vehicles. When the company had sufficient funding during 2007, it employed eight workers and was able to manufacture one car each month.\n\nBy 2018 \"Car and Driver\" magazine gave the company a chance of survival.\n\nThe Tango is thinner than some motorcycles and may be small enough to legally ride side-by-side with other small vehicles in traffic lanes in some jurisdictions. Capable of seating two passengers in a tandem seating arrangement, it only takes up one-quarter of a standard parking space and is able to park sideways in many cases. One prototype vehicle has been produced by the company and was shipped to Prodrive in the United Kingdom in January 2005, where the design was refined for production models.\n\nCommuter Cars says the Tango's heavy battery pack and low ground-clearance combine to give it a center-of-mass from the ground, allowing for stable handling. About two-thirds of the curb weight in the prototype is taken up by the batteries, twin motors, and controller, mounted low in the frame. Commuter Cars says production models are expected to weigh less, ranging from . Propulsion is provided by two electric motors. To extend its range, an optional generator cart can be attached to the Tango.\n\nCommuter Cars notes that a dryer outlet will give most of the charge in an hour, or a full charge in less than 3 hours. With a 110-volt outlet, the batteries can fully charge overnight. With a 200-amp off-board charger, the Tango can be charged to 80% in about 10 minutes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004820", "title": "John McCrea (musician)", "text": "John McCrea (musician)\n\nJohn McCrea (born June 25, 1964) is an American singer and musician. He is a founding member of the band Cake. He is the vocalist and primary lyricist for the band, in addition to playing rhythm acoustic guitar, vibraslap, and piano. He also programs drums and does mixing work while he and the rest of the band have produced all of their albums.\n\nPrior to Cake, McCrea spent most of the 1980s playing in various bands or performing solo. His mid-1980s band John McCrea and the Roughousers recorded the songs \"Love You Madly\" and \"Shadow Stabbing,\" which were later re-recorded by Cake (both featured on 2001's \"Comfort Eagle\"). This band included Michael Urbano (drums), Pete Costello (bass), and Robert Kuhlmann (guitar).\n\nIn the late 1980s, McCrea moved to Los Angeles and began playing acoustically in local coffee shops. His first solo release was a double-sided single on vinyl only called \"Rancho Seco\". One side was electric and the other acoustic. The single was a protest song against the now-decommissioned nuclear power plant Rancho Seco built southeast of Sacramento.\n\nMcCrea's voice has a distinctive \"rough-around-the-edges\" quality, which is especially evident when he sings in the lower part of his vocal range. He is also known for half-singing, half-speaking lyrics in many of his songs, sometimes in a kind of energetic monotone, such as the hits \"The Distance\" and \"Never There.\" He is also known for \"back-singing\" some of his lyrics as he does in Cake's cover of Gloria Gaynor's \"I Will Survive\" from \"Fashion Nugget\". McCrea also commonly sings with off-beat rhythms and emphasizes the consonants in words instead of the vowels. The single \"Perhaps, Perhaps, Perhaps,\" is a good example of this.\n\nMcCrea is a vocal activist for various causes, notably global warming and world poverty. He frequently uses the band's website and concerts as a platform to increase awareness about these and other issues. He is a member of the board of directors of HeadCount, a non-profit organization that uses music to promote voter registration and participation. He is also the founder of the Content Creators Coalition, a group of musicians and creatives that advocates for the rights of artists.\n\nHe has collaborated with Ben Folds, singing on the track \"Fred Jones, Part 2\" from 2001's \"Rockin' the Suburbs\" and performing the song live with Folds and on Folds' 2002 album \"Ben Folds Live\".\n\nJohn McCrea contributed vocals to \"The Headphonist,\" a track from Mexican rock band Kinky's 2003 \"Atlas\" album.\n"}
{"id": "2004827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004827", "title": "Bocal", "text": "Bocal\n\nA bocal is a curved, tapered tube, which is an integral part of certain woodwind instruments, including double reed instruments such as the bassoon, contrabassoon, English horn, and oboe d'amore, as well as the larger recorders. In the double reed instruments, the bocal connects the reed to the rest of the instrument; in the case of larger recorders, the bocal directs air from the player's mouth to the fipple. Bocals can be made from a variety of metals, including nickel silver, brass, sterling silver, or even gold, and are covered at the lower end with a cork sleeve, allowing the bocal to fit tightly in the socket at the top of the instrument. More recently, at least one maker is producing bocals made of hardwood. The reed either fits directly on to the tapered end of the bocal (as with the bassoon) or is tied to a metal tube which fits to the bocal (as with the English horn).\n\n"}
{"id": "2004837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004837", "title": "Hankyū Itami Line", "text": "Hankyū Itami Line\n\nThe is a railway line of Hankyu Railway in Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan, connecting Tsukaguchi Station in the city of Amagasaki and Itami Station in the city of Itami. It extends .\n\nThe line opened, electrified at 600 VDC in 1920, and duplicated in 1943. The voltage was raised to 1500 VDC in 1967.\n\nThe Itami station building collapsed during the Great Hanshin earthquake in 1995, and a temporary station opened 400m south of the original station three months later while the original station was torn down and rebuilt. A single track was restored to the rebuilt station site in 1998, and dual track service resumed in 1999.\n\nThis article incorporates material from the corresponding article in the Japanese Wikipedia\n"}
{"id": "2004845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004845", "title": "Metron (comics)", "text": "Metron (comics)\n\nMetron is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics.\n\nMetron first appeared in \"New Gods\" #1 (February–March 1971) and was created by Jack Kirby for his \"Fourth World\" series in DC Comics. Metron was based on actor Leonard Nimoy's portrayal of the \"Star Trek\" character Spock and designed as a character who \"would frequently change sides (between New Genesis and Apokolips)\".\n\nAlthough he possesses the powers of a god, Metron is typically depicted as a passive observer in the DC Universe rather than an active participant. He wanders in search of greater knowledge beyond his own, riding on his Mobius Chair, which can traverse time and space instantaneously. Metron is of neither New Genesis nor Apokolips, and usually avoids the struggle between the two worlds almost entirely. As he states in \"New Gods\" #7, \"The Pact,\": \"I have no link with the Old Gods -- or New!! I am something different! Something that was unforeseen!! -- On New Genesis -- or here!!\"\n\nMetron invented the \"Boom Tube\" technology used by the New Gods to teleport vast distances.\n\nIn 1989's \"Legend\" mini-series, Metron confides in Darkseid about the Anti-Life Equation. Apparently, Metron holds the key to the Anti-Life Equation. However, he is a seeker of knowledge and so will tell no one of his knowledge. In the 1982 DC/Marvel crossover, \"The Uncanny X-Men and The New Teen Titans\", Metron tells Darkseid that Dark Phoenix is a part of the Anti-Life Equation. In the 2007 \"Death of the New Gods\" miniseries leading into \"Final Crisis\", the Source explains the origin of the Anti-Life Equation to Metron.\n\nMetron helped contact most of Earth's superheroes in order to gather them during the Zero Hour crisis. During 's return, he fought alongside the Justice Society of America in defeating Extant after he gained control of the omnipotent Worlogog.\n\nIn Kurt Busiek's \"JLA/Avengers\" miniseries, Metron observes the events in that story, and gives Iron Man a Mother Box to balance the power given to the Justice League by Grandmaster. His main role during the miniseries is to observe and investigate Krona's actions, refusing to deviate from his non-involvement at the end when Krona demanded his aid. At the end, Metron kept guard over the newly formed Cosmic egg.\n\nIn the 2005 \"Mister Miracle\" miniseries, Metron contacts Shilo Norman (the current Mister Miracle) during a stunt gone wrong, making him aware of the Fourth World. In his first appearance in the book, he looks like he has before, but later he disguises himself as an epileptic man in a wheelchair.\n\nDuring the events of Death of the New Gods, where the mysterious deaths of the entire Fourth World accelerated, Metron tracked and discovered the mastermind: the Source itself, which has in truth been lurking in the backgrounds for millennia trying to reacquire its original powers and reunite with its other half: the Anti-Life Entity. In true form, Metron sought not to stop the Source, but rather to stand by the Source's side to watch and learn as the Fourth World of the New Gods came to an end.\n\nEventually, after the death of Mister Miracle at the hands of the Source, Metron grows disgusted and demands his own death. The Source complies, and kills Metron before going to confront Darkseid.\n\nOn the first page of \"Final Crisis\" #1, an all silver being appears to Anthro the First Boy and proclaims, \"I am Metron.\" Later in the issue, Doctor Light and Mirror Master are sent by Libra to recover a device that resembles Metron's chair. Other characters come to believe that Metron gave the invention of fire to mankind through Anthro.\n\nLater, the \"Mister Miracle\" version of the character restores Nix Uotan, the fallen Monitor, to his god-like status, solving a Rubik's Cube in 17 moves—one move less than the minimum supposedly required for a human being to crack the cubes, triggering the conclusion of the \"Final Crisis of Humanity\".\n\nThe Mobius Chair is later harvested by Superman to gain the precious \"Element X\" needed to power up the Miracle Machine enough to restore the Multiverse and undo all damages brought by the dark god Darkseid: in the new universe, it is revealed that every other denizen of Apokolips and New Genesis, except for Darkseid, is fated to be reborn (including Metron).\n\nMetron appears in a near-death hallucination experienced by Bruce Wayne after his return to the present, encouraging Wayne to resist Darkseid's offer to embrace anti-life by encouraging him to recognize the first truth of Batman; that, despite his claims to the contrary, he has never been alone.\n\nIn \"The New 52\" (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe), Metron consults with Highfather about the various uses of the Lantern rings. About twenty members of the interstellar police force, the Green Lantern Corps confront Highfather and his military forces. They are trying to recover the power ring belonging to the sentient planet Mogo, who needs it to remain sentient and viable. Highfather leaves the matter to his subordinates, who slaughter most of the Lanterns. This was an action Highfather later regretted.\n\nMetron confronts the Anti-Monitor on Earth 3 in an attempt to divert a war between the Anti-Monitor and Darkseid. A conversation between Metron and the Anti-Monitor suggests that he once sat on the Mobius Chair himself prior to Metron. Metron says that while he is sitting on the Mobius Chair, the Anti-Monitor is unable to hurt him. On the other hand, he is not immune from the attacks of others as Metron is struck from behind by Grail, Darkseid's Amazonian daughter, presumably leaving him for dead there in the Crime Syndicate's universe.\n\nDespite this, Metron subsequently returns to confront the Justice League and warn them that they should evacuate Earth as it is impossible to win against the Anti-Monitor and Darkseid. However, Diana uses the Lasso of Truth to make Metron admit that they can find the answers if they take the chair from him, prompting Diana to pull him off the chair and Batman to sit in it, giving him access to all of Metron's accumulated knowledge.\n\nAfter the Anti-Monitor and Darkseid are destroyed in battle, Metron appears on the moon where he trains Owlman, who now controls the Mobius Chair after Batman separates it, and warns him not to seek many answers. As Owlman demands to know the secrets of the universe, he and Metron are immediately vaporized in a flash of blue light by the mysterious entity, with only the Mobius Chair left intact. On a related note, Batman used Metron's Mobius Chair to learn the true identity of Joker. It told him that there are \"three separate versions\" of him on the loose.\n\nLike most of the New Gods, Metron is immune to all diseases, being virtually immortal. His advanced physiology provides superhuman strength and endurance in any physical activity. Metron has demonstrated numerous god-like abilities somewhat inconsistently throughout his history. Metron is a super genius who has explored the universe and gained a vast amount of knowledge. Although the New God Himon is his superior at devising scientific theories, Metron surpasses Himon as a creator of inventions based on scientific theories. Metron has also created incredible technological wonders that are too numerous to mention here.\n\nMetron travels in his flying Mobius Chair, which enables him to travel through time, outer space, and other dimensions. Its tractor beams are powerful enough to carry a planet along behind the chair and can create an impenetrable energy wall.\n\nIn the JLA storyline \"Rock of Ages\", an insane, evil Metron from an alternate future, where he is in service to Darkseid, has taken over Earth and possibly the entire universe. He is defeated when Batman asserts that the sole gap in his knowledge is his ignorance of what it means to be human, prompting him to use his powers to renounce his godhood, allowing Batman to knock him out with a single punch.\n\nIn Grant Morrison's \"Seven Soldiers\" mega series, Metron is a homeless paraplegic man in a wheelchair, having been cast out of the Fourth World as a result of Darkseid winning the war between Apokolips and New Genesis. He is seen playing chess with The Black Racer, and his wheelchair is sometimes pushed by Orion. While this story takes place in regular continuity, the section where Metron and the other New Gods appear in this state is revealed to have been one in a series of possible worlds experienced by Shilo Norman, and not the actual present.\n\nThe miniseries \"Captain Carrot and the Final Ark\" features a satirical version of the New Gods, in which they are anthropomorphic canines called the New Dogs. Metron is known as Muttron, and the Mobius Chair is known as the Bark-o-lounger.\n\nMetron causes Kal-El's rocket to divert from Earth to Apokolips in the Elseworld comic \"\".\n\nMetron appears briefly in the 1982 Marvel/DC crossover special \"The Uncanny X-Men and The New Teen Titans\", wherein the two teams battle Darkseid, Deathstroke and a resurrected Dark Phoenix.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004851", "title": "Žemaitukas", "text": "Žemaitukas\n\nThe Žemaitukas (plural: Žemaitukai, literally: \"little Samogitian\") is a historic horse breed from Lithuania. It may be classified as a pony, due to its relatively short stature (between 131–141 centimeters at the withers). Known from the 6–7th centuries, it was used as a war horse by the Lithuanians during the Northern Crusades and is hailed in Lithuania as part of the state's historic heritage. Its origin is uncertain, but it is related to indigenous forest horse breeds, Estonian native horse and the Konik, a Polish breed, which were both probably descended from the Tarpan. The breed contributed to the foundation of the Trakehner. Once popular, the breed was brought to the brink of extinction by changing agricultural demands and World War II. As of 2010, the total population is estimated at 400 individuals.\n\nKnown in written sources since the 6–7th centuries, the Žemaitukas became famous as an excellent war horse during the Northern Crusades. During the centuries, the breed was influenced by Tatar, Russian, light Polish, and other horses. Once widespread, the breed went almost extinct three times. In the 19th century, new agricultural machinery required taller and stronger horses. Therefore the horses were crossed with the Trakehners, Arabians, and draft horses threatening survival of pure breed Žemaitukas. The breed was saved by the Ogiński family, who established Žemaitukas breeding societies in Raseiniai, Plungė, and Rietavas between 1881 and 1890. The Ogińskis popularized the breed and exhibited it at the Paris International Agricultural Show in 1900 where the horses won two gold and one silver medals. At the end of World War II, the Germans took all Žemaitukas horses from the Gruzdžiai stud farm. A single stud was found in 1958 in Užventis. The stud was transferred to the Vilnius State Stud Farm, where a new generation of Žemaitukas horses was bred. A new challenge was presented by the dissolution of the Soviet Union and rapid de-collectivization in 1990. Horses, that belonged to the kolkhozes (collective farms), were distributed to private owners who often showed little interest in the survival of the breed. In 1994, only 30 adult individuals remained. However, the Vilnius State Stud Farm preserved its horses and remains the major breading center. As of 2010, it had 98 Žemaitukas horses.\n\nArabian blood was added during the 19th century, giving the horse an Arab-type head, including the characteristic dish-shaped Arabian profile. The infusion of Arabian blood created two subtypes of the Žemaitukas: those with Arabian ancestry were considered suitable for riding, while the other, more closely related to the indigenous horses, was better adapted to farm work. After World War II, the distinction was muted. With limited crossbreeding with North Swedish Horse, a deliberate effort was made to increase the size and bulk of the animals so that they could be used for both riding and draft work.\n\nThe ponies are said to be hardy, possessing excellent stamina, disease resistant, and displaying a willing temperament. It is now a multi-purpose breed; it is ridden, used in farm work, and crossed with lighter and larger breeds to produce sport horses. The horses are usually a dun color and often display the primeval dorsal stripe, but they may also be brown, bay, black, or palomino. The Žemaitukas generally stands high, placing it among the taller pony breeds.\n\nAs with other domestic animals around the world, studies have been carried out on this horse's genetic heritage, since it may possess unique characteristics. Maternal DNA sequencing indicated that one of its haplotypes is similar to an old haplotype present in horse breeds of the North East European area. In 2004 study, scientists discovered allele T, common among the Žemaitukas and observed only a few times among all other tested horse breeds. The FAO Mission Conference for Central and Eastern European countries recognized the Žemaitukas as an internationally watched breed, and included it into the FAO World Watch List for Domestic Animal Diversity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004854", "title": "Alux", "text": "Alux\n\nAn alux (Mayan: , plural: \"aluxo'ob\" ) is the name given to a type of sprite or spirit in the mythological tradition of certain Maya peoples from the Yucatán Peninsula and Guatemala, also called Chanekeh or Chaneque by the Nahuatl people. Aluxo'ob are conceived of as being small, only about knee-high, and in appearance resembling miniature traditionally dressed Maya people. Tradition holds that aluxob are generally invisible but are able to assume physical form for purposes of communicating with and frightening humans as well as to congregate. They are generally associated with natural features such as forests, caves, stones, and fields but can also be enticed to move somewhere through offerings. Their description and mythological role are somewhat reminiscent of other sprite-like mythical entities in a number of other cultural traditions (such as the Celtic leprechaun), as the tricks they play are similar.\n\nSome Maya believe that the Aluxob are called into being when a farmer builds a little house on his property, most often in a maize field (\"milpa\"). For seven years, the alux will help the corn grow, summon rain and patrol the fields at night, whistling to scare off predators or crop thieves. At the end of seven years, the farmer must close the windows and doors of the little house, sealing the alux inside. If this is not done, the alux will run wild and start playing tricks on people.\n\nSome contemporary Maya even consider the single- and double-story shrines that dot the countryside to be \"kahtal alux\", the \"houses of the alux\" (although their true origins and purpose are unknown).\n\nStories say that they will occasionally stop and ask farmers or travellers for an offering. If they refuse, the aluxo'ob will often wreak havoc and spread illness. However, if their conditions are met, it is thought the alux will protect a person from thieves or even bring them good luck. If they are treated with respect, they can be very helpful.\n\nIt is believed that it is not good to name them aloud, as it will summon a disgruntled alux from its home.\n\nThe word \"duende\" is sometimes used interchangeably with \"alux\". Duende is a Spanish word for a supernatural creature (commonly a goblin) or force. In fact, because of such striking similarities, some suspect that the Maya's belief of aluxob developed through interactions with the Spanish or pirates during the 16th century. Pirates of that era were often from the British Isles, where belief in faeries was quite common, especially amongst those of lower socio-economic class (as pirates generally would have been). However, the Maya themselves would claim that the alux are the spirits of their ancestors, or the spirits of the land itself, preceding contact with Western civilization.\n\nThe supposition that aluxob featured in the mythical traditions of the pre-Columbian Maya is possibly supported by similar conceptions postulated from depictions in pre-Columbian artworks, but there is no direct evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004855", "title": "Tarsem Singh", "text": "Tarsem Singh\n\nTarsem Singh Dhandwar (born 26 May 1961), known professionally as Tarsem, is an Indian director who has worked on films, music videos, and commercials.\n\nTarsem was born in Jalandhar, Punjab to a Punjabi Sikh family. His father was an aircraft engineer. He attended Bishop Cotton School in Shimla, Hans Raj College in Delhi, and is a graduate of the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California.\n\nTarsem began his career directing music videos, including those of \"Hold On\" by En Vogue, \"Sweet Lullaby\" by Deep Forest and R.E.M.'s \"Losing My Religion\", the latter of which won Best Video of the Year at the 1991 MTV Video Music Awards. He has directed commercials for brands such as Nike and Coca-Cola. Tarsem's feature film directorial debut was \"The Cell\" (2000), starring Jennifer Lopez.\n\nIn 2003, Tarsem directed one of the most elaborate Pepsi commercials to date. It combined a gladiator theme with Queen's \"We Will Rock You\". The commercial starred Enrique Iglesias in the version of the commercial aired in Europe and North America and Amr Diab in the version aired in the Arab world.\n\nTarsem's second film, \"The Fall\", debuted at the 2006 Toronto International Film Festival and was released theatrically in the United States in 2008. His third film was 2011's \"Immortals\". He directed an adaptation of the Brothers Grimm story of \"Snow White\", called \"Mirror Mirror\" (2012).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004858", "title": "Klaf", "text": "Klaf\n\nKlaf or Qelaf () is the designation given a particular piece of skin. The Talmudic definition includes both the form of the skin and the way it is processed, in particular that it must be tanned. Since the innovative ruling of \"Rabbeinu Tam\" (12th century Tosafist) it is primarily used to refer to parchment or vellum. It is one of the materials upon which a Sofer writes certain Jewish liturgical and ritual documents.\n\nKlaf is a specially prepared tanned, split skin of a kosher animal - goat, cattle, or deer. Rabbinic literature addresses three forms of tanned skin: \"Gevil\", consisting of the full, unsplit hide; and \"klaf\" and \"dukhsustus\" which are the two halves of the full hide. Rabbinic literature is divided upon which is the inner and which is the outer of the two halves. \n\nAccording to the \"Halakhot Gedolot\", klaf is the inner layer, adjacent to the flesh, while \"dukhsustos\" is the outer layer, on which the hair grows:\n\nThe same view is expressed in the oldest extant manuscripts and critical editions of Maimonides' Mishneh Torah and the Babylonian Talmud (\"Shab. 79b\").\nThis is also the same definition which appears in the minor Talmudic tractate called Sofrim. \nHowever, more recent authorities reverse the two descriptions, and many printed editions of the Mishneh Torah are \"adjusted\" to reflect this. The reason for this reversal of terms is a mystery. Some suspect that copying errors are to blame. As a result, many have become confused, in terms of which part of the skin should be used for writing. Using the full hide known as gevil for Sifrei Torah does avoid this issue, but unfortunately this solution won't work for tefilin which must be written on Klaf and are not kosher if written on gevil.\n\nThis dispute may be of very little practical significance as the main schools of thought today on each side are in agreement over the identity of the klaf, with the only dispute being whether Duchsustus is the skin layer on the outside or the membrane on the inside, with writing on duchsustus having fallen out of all common practice centuries ago. \n\nHowever, there is a small group which breaks with the tradition and understands that the Klaf is the thin outer layer with the Duchsustus being the thicker, inner layer.) In any event in agreement is that klaf can only be written upon on its own inner layer and \"Duchsustus\" on its own outer layer. For each of sifrei torah, tefilin, and mezuzos there are different guidelines and restrictions of which form of the skin may be used i.e. \"tefilin\" can only be made from \"klaf\".\n\nThe legally required method of cleaning and preparing \"klaf\" has been altered over the centuries. During Talmudic times, salt-water and barley (or flours) were sprinkled on the skins which were then soaked in the juice of \"afatsim\" (gall nuts, or Oak apples). Nowadays, most processors dip the skins in clear water for two days, and then soak them in limewater for nine days to remove the hair. When it is a hairless surface, the scribe stretches it on a wooden drying frame and scrapes it until it is dry. Creases are ironed out with presses. Then it is sanded until it becomes a flat, smooth sheet fit for writing. The reasons for the change in this process are lengthy and controversial. Today, a few Jewish scribes still prepare \"klaf\" in precise accordance with the Jewish Law.\n\nSome parchment (usually poor quality) is smeared with \"log\", a chalky substance, to make it whiter. Occasionally this is only done on the reverse. Some scribes object to the use of \"log\" as it forms a barrier between the ink and the parchment.\n\nIn Talmudic times klaf was primarily only used for tefilin and at times mezuzos however since the 9th or 10th centuries it has become more widespread to write Sifrei Torah on \"klaf\" however, even today, there are still groups who continue to adhere to the ancient prescription described in the Talmud, and continue to write on gevil.\n\nThe parchment must be prepared \"for the sake of heaven\" (i.e. with the intent of performing a Divine act) and the processor must declare what he is preparing it for, as one cannot use \"k'laf\" destined for a lesser holiness (\"kedusha kallah\") - e.g. a mezuzah to write tefillin or a Sefer Torah, which are of weightier holiness (\"kedusha chamurah\"). If necessary, the scribe should state that he is preparing for the sake of a Sefer Torah but that he may change his mind if he wishes. Some believe that when a Jew is unable to prepare the parchment, then in exceptional circumstances, a non-Jew may prepare it. However, a Jew must stand over him, directing him in his work and stating that the preparation is for the sake of heaven. However, this issue is not universally accepted.\n\nToday there is a large amount of Klaf processed under rabbinical supervision, and the variety, quality and quantity is increasing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004862", "title": "Ray Martin (television presenter)", "text": "Ray Martin (television presenter)\n\nRaymond George \"Ray\" Martin AM (born Raymond George Grace, 20 December 1944) is an Australian television journalist and entertainment personality. Having won the Gold Logie five times he is the most awarded star of Australian television, along with Graham Kennedy (although Kennedy won the \"Star of the Year Award, the forerunner of the Gold Logie in 1959).\n\nHe is best known for his various on-air roles on Channel Nine from 1978, particular his long tenure as host of the variety/talk show The Midday Show. In 2011 he returned to Current Affairs \"60 Minutes\", in which he had been an original presenter, albeit only in a part-time capacity.\n\nHe was born Raymond George Grace into an Irish-Australian Catholic family in Richmond, New South Wales, Australia. He was the youngest of four children and their only son. His mother changed the family surname to \"Martin\" to prevent her abusive, alcoholic husband from finding her and their children after they fled from him in c. 1955. She and the children moved many times, settling in Adelaide and in Tasmania. In the early 1990s, he found out that his great, great grandmother was an Indigenous Australian woman from the Kamilaroi nation, near Gunnedah.\n\nHe attended Launceston College and the University of Sydney, where he studied engineering on scholarship at university, but changed his mind and studied to become an English and History teacher. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1967.\n\nMartin began working for Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) in Sydney as a cadet in 1965. He was appointed the ABC's New York City correspondent in 1969. Over the next 10 years his coverage included race riots, anti-Vietnam War protests, Olympic Games and presidential elections for news and current affairs television and radio, from \"Four Corners\" and \"This Day Tonight\" to science and religion programs.\n\nIn 1978 he joined the Nine Network to launch \"60 Minutes\", along with reporters George Negus and Ian Leslie.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1993 he presented the daily variety show \"Midday with Ray Martin\" and hosted top-rating specials such as \"Ray Martin Presents\", \"Up Close and Personal\" and \"The Ray Martin Show\", interviewing entertainment celebrities including Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman, Robin Williams, Elton John, Michael Crawford, Russell Crowe and Madonna.\n\nHe hosted \"A Current Affair\" from 1994 to 1998 and went on to present three series – \"Our Century\", \"The Great Debates\" and \"Simply the Best\" – before returning to \"60 Minutes\" to do special reports. In 2003 he resumed as host of \"A Current Affair\". It was announced in December 2005 that he would become the Nine Network's Senior Reporter. This quashed much speculation that he would return to \"Four Corners\" at the ABC, as the fluctuating ratings for \"A Current Affair\" had decreased. Over the past few years he has assisted in reporting with some major events including the Indonesian tsunami disaster in 2005. Former \"Today Show\" co-host Tracy Grimshaw replaced Martin on \"ACA\" at the beginning of 2006. He was then a senior correspondent for Channel Nine.\nHe has also hosted diverse television events, from the Logie Awards, Commonwealth Games, World Cup Cricket, 1988 Bicentenary Spectacular and Federal and State Election nights to the aftermath of the 11 September terrorist attacks. From 16 September 2007, Martin took over as co-host of \"Sunday\" replacing Ross Greenwood.\n\nMartin left the Nine Network in February 2008, allegedly due to differences with management over budget cuts and a time slot change for the \"Sunday\" program.\n\nOn 28 March 2008 it was announced that Martin would lead the official broadcast of the World Youth Day event in Sydney from 15 to 20 July 2008.\n\nIn October 2008, Martin criticised the Nine Network and other commercial television operations during an address at the annual Andrew Olle Media Lecture. The subject of Martin's criticism was an alleged \"dumbing down\" of journalism and news coverage.\n\nSince 2014, Martin has been the presenter for the SBS series \"First Contact\". In 2015, he featured on the SBS Australian version of the popular international franchise genealogy television documentary series \"Who Do You Think You Are?\".\nIn 2017, he hosted Look Me In The Eye.\n\nIn August 2018, Martin was announced as a presenter on the Nine Network's new travel series Helloworld, which aired on 7 October 2018.\n\nJohn Safran, an Australian documentarian and media personality, created a television pilot called \"John Safran: Media Tycoon\" which was focused on the media industry. It became infamous for a segment where Safran turned up to Martin's house and harassed him in the tabloid style characteristic of \"A Current Affair\" and its peers. Martin was in contact with the ABC and specifically warned Safran in the segment that he had spoken to Roger Grant, the then Head of Corporate Affairs at the ABC. The segment was later played on \"Media Watch\" on ABC and on \"Enough Rope\". Safran went through Martin's garbage and took Shane Paxton (a former \"A Current Affair\" story subject) to embarrass Martin.\n\nMartin has received five Gold Logie Awards for the Most Popular Personality on Australian Television, Australia's most popular television award. He received his first at the Logie Awards of 1987 as host of \"Midday\", then he received four in a row at the Logie Awards of 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996; the first two were as host of \"Midday\" and the last two as host of \"A Current Affair\". He has also received Silver Logies, People's Choice Awards, Variety, Mo and Queensland Entertainer awards.\n\nMartin was awarded a star on Caloundra's Walk of Stars in early 2007.\n\nMartin was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia on 26 January 2010 for service to the community through voluntary roles with charitable, Indigenous, health and sporting organisations, and to the media as a television journalist.\n\nMartin was awarded the Centenary Medal on 1 January 2001.\n\nIn 2018, Martin was honoured with a special collection of post stamps issued by Australia Post, with his portrait featured on the stamp, as part of the legends of television series.\n\nRay Martin is married to Dianne Martin, with whom he has two children.\n\nAlthough his parents split, they never divorced owing to a huge stigma regarding divorce and separation. His father died in the mid-1980s.\n\nMartin is a republican and has called for a change in the Australian flag to reflect the nation's increasing multicultural identity. \n\nHe is a supporter and current board member of the South Sydney Rabbitohs NRL team.\n\nHe was Chairman of the Australian Indigenous Education Foundation, was Chairman of The Fred Hollows Foundation and has supported children's services at Royal North Shore Hospital. From 1991 to 2000, he was a full-term member of the Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation.\n\nHe is a Brand Tasmania Ambassador.\n\nHe is an Ambassador of the Australian Indigenous Education Foundation\n\n"}
{"id": "2004867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004867", "title": "Mobile Wizards", "text": "Mobile Wizards\n\nThe Mobile Wizards were an af2 arena football team that played their home games in Mobile, Alabama at the Mobile Civic Center.\n\nOn June 15, 2001, the af2 awarded a franchise to Mobile businessman Norris Armstrong, who ran the team with his wife Beth. The af2 club replaced the Mobile Seagulls in the market, who played the 2000 season in the IPFL and 2001 in the NIFL. The Civic Center (capacity: 10,112) was a hub of activity in early 2000s, as it also hosted the ECHL's Mobile Mysticks and the NBDL's Mobile Revelers.\n\nThe Wizards were anything but on the turf or at the box office. They lost all sixteen games they played in 2002, often by ugly scores such as 80-18 and 72-6. They did manage to draw 5,427 – barely half-filling the arena – for their first home game, but averaged less than 2,000 a night the rest of the season. The Wizards disbanded after only one season, making them the only af2 team never to have won a game in their history.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004873", "title": "Jack's Mannequin", "text": "Jack's Mannequin\n\nJack's Mannequin was an American rock band formed in 2004, hailing from Orange County, California. The band originally began as a solo project for Andrew McMahon, the frontman of Something Corporate.\n\nThe band was signed to Maverick Records and released \"Everything in Transit\" in August 2005, peaking at 37 on the \"Billboard\" 200. \"The Glass Passenger\" was released in 2008 on Sire Records, sold 49,000 copies in its first week, and peaked at number eight on the \"Billboard\" 200. \"People and Things\" was released October 4, 2011. Shortly afterward, it was announced that McMahon would discontinue releasing music under the name Jack's Mannequin, choosing to release music under his own name henceforth.\n\nOn November 30, 2015, McMahon announced that he will reunite Jack's Mannequin for a tenth-anniversary tour of \"Everything In Transit\".\n\nAndrew McMahon began his musical career as the lead vocalist and pianist for the Orange County piano rock band Something Corporate. The primary impulse behind McMahon's solo project, Jack's Mannequin, was a song he recorded in December 2003 titled \"Locked Doors.\" He felt the song had too different a style from previous Something Corporate material to be one of their songs. He realized that if he ever decided to release it, it would be on a solo album rather than a Something Corporate record. Exhausted from months of touring in late summer 2004, the band decided to take a temporary break. During his time off, McMahon laid down piano and vocal tracks for a song on Hidden in Plain View's \"Life in Dreaming\" and two songs on Tommy Lee's \"\".\n\nWhile Something Corporate's other songwriter and lead guitarist Josh Partington created a side project of his own called Firescape, McMahon started writing his own songs. He did not expect the songs to be released. McMahon took a more therapeutic approach in writing these songs, resulting in a more personal and intimate testament of his songwriting. McMahon stated in an interview that they dealt with \"coming home, and having home be way different than I had remembered it [...], abandoning a lot of people, and things, that I had normally been so attached to [...], exploring and being okay with myself, and not having to make excuses for who I am, and accepting who I am.\" Although he just planned on recording these songs, they began to take shape collectively. He paid for the production out of his own pocket, which ultimately led to a record deal with Maverick Records.\n\nHe formed the band under the name Jack's Mannequin, which came to be after McMahon had considered the name \"The Mannequins.\" However, after growing \"bored of 'the' band names,\" he decided to sandwich it together with the title of a song he had completed for the record, \"Dear Jack.\" Originally, there was said to be \"not much significance behind the name,\" but upon McMahon's diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, \"the band name became ironic--considering the Jack I wrote the song for & ultimately named the project after, suffered from childhood leukemia.\"\n\nTheir first album, titled \"Everything in Transit\", was released in August 2005 and received a positive response from fans and critics alike. A summer tour was scheduled to support the record release, but was canceled after McMahon was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and received a stem cell transplant from his sister Kate.\n\nMusic by Jack's Mannequin from \"Everything in Transit\" was featured in Season Three, Episode Fifteen of the TV series \"One Tree Hill\". Hilarie Burton's character on the show, Peyton Sawyer, appeared in the music video for 'The Mixed Tape,' from Everything In Transit.\n\nIn May 2013, nearly eight years after its 2005 release, the track Dark Blue went gold.\n\nThe band began recording their second album in the summer of 2007. In August 2007, McMahon posted the lyrics to the song \"Cellular Phone\" on his blog, which the band played live at several shows in 2007 and 2008. Also, in February 2008, videos of live performances of two songs off the record (\"Caves\" and \"Suicide Blonde\") were uploaded onto YouTube for public viewing. McMahon then appeared on the cover of the January 2008 issue of \"Alternative Press\".\n\nThe album was entitled \"The Glass Passenger\", and is a transcendent step-up, a catchy and listenable journey through McMahon's stories of love, life, and loss that moves from full-on upbeat rock (\"Spinning\") to melancholy introspection (\"Annie Use Your Telescope\") and all that lies between. It was originally set for release on April 22, 2008 but the date was then tentatively set to June 3, and eventually delayed to be released on September 30, 2008.\n\n\"The Ghost Overground\" EP was released to iTunes on August 5, 2008. The EP contains two tracks from the second album, \"The Resolution\" and \"Bloodshot,\" and two live tracks from \"Everything in Transit\". Another EP, \"In Valleys\", was released on iTunes on September 9, containing one song from the album, \"Swim,\" and three b-sides, \"Cell Phone,\" \"Sleazy Wednesday,\" and \"At Full Speed\".\n\nOn August 28, 2008, in an interview with MTV, Andrew revealed that the author Stephenie Meyer had written the treatment for the music video for \"The Resolution\" and was set to direct it the following week. McMahon said of the filming, \"It was a very cool shoot. Music videos are a tricky thing. They require a lot of trust in the team creating the visuals and that can be a little scary. That said, there was a great vibe on the set, and shooting by the water really made it an especially peaceful day, despite all the hard work that goes into it.\"\n\nOn September 3, 2008, it was announced that Jack's Mannequin would be the headliner on a fall tour that featured the album. The tour was called \"Hammers and Strings: An Evening with Jack's Mannequin and The Glass Passenger.\" The band toured many cities and played much of the album at these shows. This much-awaited tour saw many of the shows sell out in a few days. It was the first tour after \"The Glass Passenger\"'s release.\n\nOn October 4, 2009, McMahon began a solo tour across the country to raise awareness of leukemia and to support the release of the \"Dear Jack\" documentary due out on November 3, 2009. On November 3, 2009, the EP associated with the \"Dear Jack\" documentary, also of the same name, was released, including the songs \"Dear Jack,\" \"Diane, the Skyscraper,\" \"There, There Katie,\" and \"Swim (Music Box)\".\n\nIn an \"Alternative Press\" article, Andrew revealed that he planned to return to the studio in Spring 2010 to record his third full studio album with Jack's Mannequin. According to a LiveDaily interview with Relient K's lead vocalist, Matt Thiessen, Thiessen contributed around four songs or so to this Jack's Mannequin album. 3 of these songs, \"Amy, I\", \"People, Running\", and \"Platform Fire\", were included on the album.\nThis newest album was released on October 4.\n\nMcMahon debuted a new song titled \"Restless Dream\" during an acoustic tour in Australia in February 2011. This song, along with \"Hey Hey Hey (We're All Gonna Die)\", and \"Platform Fire\", which was debuted in late 2010, are on the new album.\n\nOn March 21, 2011, McMahon sent an email to his fans announcing a summer tour with Guster and revealing the title of Jack's Mannequin's third studio album: \"In a perfect world we will be finished with Jack's third album, 'People and Things', by the end of this month.\"\n\nOn July 19, 2011, it was announced that \"People and Things\" would be released on October 4, 2011. The first single, \"My Racing Thoughts\", was released on August 2, 2011.\n\nAccording to AbsolutePunk.net, McMahon had this to say about the new album, \"I consider 'People and Things' a relationship record. My goal with many of the songs was to strip away the flowery language and sentiment attached to newer love and replace it with starker, less blinded language about more binding love. In the time following the last Jack's album the people in my world were moving in together, getting married, trying to find quote unquote 'real jobs' and reconciling new lives that looked a lot less like youth than some of us cared for. Marriage is a bit of a beast to tackle in a pop record but when I wrote 'My Racing Thoughts,' it became clear how powerful and loaded a subject this kind of love is and somewhere in that moment I began to lock into the broad concept for the writing sessions to come.\" In another (unrelated) interview, McMahon established \"this album should be different than the previous few. The first (\"Everything In Transit\") was about breaking up, the second (\"The Glass Passenger\") was about getting sick and recovering from it. I hated that album at first, until we wrote this one (\"People and Things\") and I then realized how proud I am of all of my work. This album will be much more 'cheery' than the last one(s).\"\n\nOn February 2, 2012, McMahon foreshadowed the end to the band, saying, “I foresee an end to the usage of the name. I don’t know that it’s doing for me what it used to, in the sense that Jack’s sort of really represented a freedom from something. And a really free approach to creating things that now is certainly wrapped up in a whole lot of turmoil and tumult in a very difficult time in my life. And to acknowledge that, I certainly think at some point I’m going to have to find a way to shake that loose. And I think to some extent that might mean retiring the name.”\n\nOn August 25, 2012, the Jack's Mannequin website redirected to andrewmcmahon.com, with McMahon decidedly putting out new music under his own name.\n\nIt was announced in September 2012 that Jack's Mannequin would perform their final show together at the 3rd Annual Dear Jack Benefit on November 11 in Los Angeles. The show sold out faster than any other show of McMahon's career, and because of this, an additional performance was added for November 12. Both of the two performances were recorded with the intention of releasing the concerts on DVD. In May 2013, a pre-order for \"Live From The El Rey Theatre\" was announced through McMahon's webstore, with profits benefiting the Dear Jack Foundation.\n\nOn November 30, 2015, McMahon announced that Jack's Mannequin would reunite for a short \"Everything in Transit\" tour called \"Ten Years in Transit\" to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the release of their debut album. \"I am pleased to announce, the Jack's Mannequin band and I will be getting together for a handful of exclusive engagements to celebrate the album Everything in Transit. I will be the first to admit, I prefer keeping my focus in the present, but I cannot deny Transit's place in my life and the lives of my fans. Even as I announce these shows I know there will be disappointment over the fact this will not be a full tour. To those of you in markets we are not playing, please know we picked the routing that allowed us to play the most shows in the short time that was available.\"\n\nThe lineup consisted of McMahon, Bobby \"Raw\" Anderson, Jay McMillan, and Mikey \"The Kid\" Wagner, with Zac Clark as a guest on keys.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004878", "title": "Welara", "text": "Welara\n\nThe Welara is a part-Arabian pony breed developed from the Arabian horse and the Welsh pony. It was originally bred in England by Lady Wentworth at the Crabbet Arabian Stud in the early 1900s from imported Arabian stallions and Welsh pony mares. Breeding then spread throughout North America. In 1981, a breed registry was formed in the United States, and a studbook began to be published. They are used for many disciplines of English riding, and are known for their refinement, hardiness and spirit.\n\nWelara stallions average and mares . To be registered, Welaras must stand between high. Crosses between Arabians and each of the four sections of Welsh Pony (A, B, C and D) tend to produce slightly different types of pony. Section A Welsh Pony crosses (the smallest) tend to be under , and be used mainly as light driving ponies and mounts for small children. Section B crosses usually stand and can be used for driving and as riding ponies for larger children and small adults. Section C crosses average hands and tend to be a heavier pony, sometimes with feathered feet, although still showing the refinement of their Arabian ancestors. Section D crosses generally stand high. The latter two types are suited to riding by average and slightly larger adults and for the majority of disciplines.\n\nAll colors other than Appaloosa are allowed for registration. Welara Sport Ponies may be of any color or size, without the restrictions of the purebred Welara. The mix of Arabian and Welsh blood gives the breed refinement, spirit and hardiness, as well as good movement. The head is small and slightly concave, the neck is arched (and prone to be cresty in stallions). The shoulders and croup are long and the back short. Welaras are used mainly in English riding, especially in hunter classes. They are also seen in show jumping, three-day eventing, pleasure driving and as general leisure riding horses. Welara/Thoroughbred crosses are popular mounts for riders competing in hunter and jumper classes.\n\nCrosses began to be made between the Arabian horse and the Welsh Pony in Sussex, England the early 1900s, by Lady Wentworth of the Crabbet Arabian Stud. She began breeding Arabian stallions, including Skowronek (1909–1930), a Polish Arabian stud, to Welsh mares from North Wales, especially the Coed Coch stud farm, which she imported beginning in the early 1920s. Other breeders in England and North America soon followed suit, although at this time they were not focused on creating a new breed, and the cross became known as the Welara.\n\nIn 1981, a breed registry, called the American Welara Pony Registry, was created in the US in order to develop and promote the breed. A studbook also began to be published, and pedigrees of Welaras were collected and preserved. Only Welsh and Arabian blood is allowed for purebreds, and all registered ponies must have at least 1/8 and no more than 7/8 blood from each breed. As of 2005, the registry claimed slightly over 1,500 ponies registered in North America, with around 100 new foals registered annually. Welara Sport Ponies may also be registered – these are ponies at least 50 percent Welara but with blood from other breeds, often the Thoroughbred. The association also registers pureblood Welsh and Arabian foundation stock.\n\nWelaras have now spread to additional areas of the world, including the Caribbean, Oceania and Europe. In Europe, Welsh/Arabian crosses, sometimes with additional Thoroughbred blood, are often called \"riding ponies\" or \"sport ponies\". In the US, the breed is seen most often in the central and western parts of the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004884", "title": "Trinity School", "text": "Trinity School\n\nMany schools use the name Trinity School:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004887", "title": "Kyong Won-ha", "text": "Kyong Won-ha\n\nKyong Won-ha (, born 1928) is a nuclear scientist who may have participated in developing the North Korean nuclear program.\n\nAccording to a report published in the \"Weekly Australian\" he left North Korea in 2002 with help from Spanish officials.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004888", "title": "Contextual theatre", "text": "Contextual theatre\n\nContextual theatre is a form of theatre and the art of creating a context in which an actor, player or audience is encouraged to suspend their disbelief and feel as if they freely exist within the context. The most common forms of contextual theatre are theme parks, video games and haunted houses.\n"}
{"id": "2004903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004903", "title": "Vyatka horse", "text": "Vyatka horse\n\nThe Vyatka or Viatka (, vyatskaya loshad) is an endangered breed of horse native to the former Vyatka region, now the Kirov Oblast of the Russian Federation. It is mainly found there and in the Udmurt Republic. It is named for the Vyatka River.\n\nThe Vyatka was influenced by the climate and terrain of the Kirov, Udmurtia and western Perm regions; Estonian horses and Kleppers brought to northern Russia in the fourteenth century by Novgorod colonists may have affected its conformation, as may later imports of Estonian horses for mining work in the Ural Mountains. The Vyatka was valued for its endurance, speed and frugality. By the middle of the nineteenth century it was considered the best horse for pulling troikas; some were exported from the Vyatka region, including to Poland.\n\nIn 1917 the breed was virtually extinct; some efforts at re-establishment were made after the Russian Revolution. Numbers in the Kirov and Udmurtia were estimated at 2000 in 1980. In 2003 the known population numbered 560, and in 2007 the Vyatka was on the Endangered List of the FAO.\n\nThe average height at the withers of Vyatka mares is , and the average weight . The usual coat color was originally a striped dun with primitive markings – zebra stripes and a dorsal stripe; it has become more variable, and may also be roan, bay, brown or chestnut, or occasionally black.\n"}
{"id": "2004924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004924", "title": "Al McGuire Center", "text": "Al McGuire Center\n\nThe Al McGuire Center is a 3,700-seat arena in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, which houses the women's volleyball and basketball teams at Marquette University. It also serves as a practice facility for the men's basketball team. It was opened in 2004, replacing the venerable Marquette Gymnasium. The complex is a $31 million athletic facility named for Al McGuire, the coach who led the men's basketball team to an NCAA championship, an NIT title, and 295 victories in 13 seasons. The McGuire Center offers state-of-the-art practice facilities for men's and women's basketball, including strength and conditioning and sports medicine facilities, an academic center for student athletes, and a Marquette Athletics Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004933", "title": "Polytan", "text": "Polytan\n\nPolytan GmbH is a Burgheim, Germany-based manufacturer and installer of synthetic sport surfaces, including running tracks and synthetic turf. Polytan sports surfaces have been in use for more than 37 years, with more than 25 million square meters of sports surface installed across the world.\n\nPolytan manufactures and installs both 1* and 2* FIFA RECOMMENDED artificial fields, using a monofilament fiber. Only synthetic turf installations attaining 2* certification are permitted by FIFA to be used for World Cup qualifying and Champions League matches. All other matches must be played on natural grass.\n\nPolytan supplies their own raw materials, manufactures their product, and installs it in the field. Polyurethane raw materials and artificial grass fibers are developed and formulated in its own laboratories and then manufactured ready for laying in its own production facilities.\n\nThe product range includes running tracks, all-weather pitches, elastic layers and shockpads for non-sandfilled and filled artificial grass, the installation of asphalt substrates, lining, repairs and the cleaning of synthetic sports surfaces.\n\nSince 1989, Polytan sports surfaces have been subject to annual national quality assurance inspections carried out by the Otto Graf Institute, FMPA, of Stuttgart University in accordance with RAL-GZ 943/1 and RAL-GZ 943/2 as well as inspections to DIN V 18035/7 standard.\nPolytan surfaces are tested and certified to standards in European countries. \n\nPolytan surfaces hold certification confirming compliance with the standards of all major international sports governing bodies, e.g. IAAF, FIFA, UEFA, and FIH.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004935", "title": "Ricardo La Volpe", "text": "Ricardo La Volpe\n\nRicardo Antonio La Volpe Guarchoni, (; born 6 February 1952) is a former Argentine footballer and former manager of Mexican club Toluca. He is a World Cup-winning goalkeeper who played for most of his career in Argentina and Mexico.\n\nAs a coach, La Volpe was in charge of both the Mexico and Costa Rica national teams, coaching the former at the 2006 World Cup. As a club manager, he won the league title in the 1992–93 season with Atlante.\n\nOn April 22nd, 2020, in an interview with David Faitelson, he announced his retirement from management.\n\nIn Argentina, La Volpe played for Banfield and San Lorenzo. In Mexico he played for Atlante and Oaxtepec.\n\nLa Volpe made eight total appearances with Argentina throughout his career. He won, as the reserve goalkeeper, the 1978 FIFA World Cup with Argentina.\n\nRicardo La Volpe began his career as a coach in the Mexican league in 1989, managing several teams such as Oaxtepec, Puebla, Atlante, Guadalajara, Querétaro, América, Atlas, Toluca, and Monterrey. Despite mixed results, La Volpe earned a reputation for his offensive-style of football. He led Atlante to the 1992–1993 season championship and reached the league final with Atlas in 1999.\n\nIn 2002 La Volpe was named coach of the Mexico national team. He led the team to win the 2003 CONCACAF Gold Cup and qualified for the 2006 World Cup, as well finishing in fourth place at the 2005 Confederations Cup, most notably defeating eventual champions Brazil in the group stage. With La Volpe at the helm, Mexico reached fourth place in the FIFA World rankings.\n\nAlso under his leadership at the 2004 Copa América, Mexico managed to defeat Argentina for the first time in years, but lost to Brazil in the quarterfinals. Mexico also lost at the 2005 CONCACAF Gold Cup quarterfinals to Colombia. Mexico was also eliminated at the 2004 Olympic Games after losing to South Korea in the group stage.\n\nAt the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Mexico finished second in their group, qualifying to the Round of 16 before going out 1–2 in extra time to Argentina. The Guardian named him \"Best Coach of the World Cup\" for his attitude.\n\nAfter leaving the Mexico national team, he met with Boca Juniors officials on 24 July 2006. After several weeks of negotiation, it was agreed on 22 August that La Volpe would take over as Boca manager on 15 September, replacing Alfio Basile who had been selected to manage the Argentina national team.\n\nLa Volpe had a bumpy start with Boca Juniors, including a 3–1 loss against archi-rivals River Plate on 8 October. On 12 October, Boca lost 3–1 to Uruguayan club Nacional on penalty kicks in the Copa Sudamericana, and so were out of the competition. Boca failed three times to claim the Apertura Championship in the final weeks of the season, and then lost a playoff against Estudiantes. Keeping his word that he would quit if he lost, La Volpe resigned after the match.\nLater that year he became the new Vélez Sársfield manager, but did not stay in the job long. After watching his team suffer bruising defeats by River Plate and Boca Juniors in the Apertura 2007, and his team in 10th place, he resigned as coach.\n\nIn 2008, Ricardo La Volpe returned to Mexico as manager of Monterrey. After several days of speculation, the decision was finally announced in the club's official website, as the replacement of former manager Isaac Mizrahi. He had a bumpy start, and didn't win until his fifth match. Monterrey finished the season in 8th place and had the league's leading goal scorer, Humberto Suazo. Monterrey's league would end in the semi-finals in which they were eliminated by Santos Laguna after an aggregate score of 3–3 Fans of Monterrey spoke highly of La Volpe for helping the team reach the playoffs again after two dismal seasons of not qualifying including a last place finish during the last tournament. In the Apertura 2008 the team would have a fairly good start, but completely fell apart towards the end of the tournament placing Monterrey in the bottom of the table, hence not qualifying to the playoffs. After the disappointing tournament, the team did not offer the money La Volpe was looking for and he decided to leave the team.\n\nOn 28 January 2009, La Volpe signed, once again, with Atlas. Fans of the team had been yearning for him to come back to the squad in which many said he had his most success. The tournament was not successful with the team failing to qualify to the playoffs, finishing 13th. On 18 November the Argentine coach quit Atlas due to poor results, and was replaced by Carlos Ischia.\n\nOn 9 September 2010, the former Atlas coach became the new manager of Costa Rica, replacing interim coach Rónald González. The Argentine had originally signed until July 2014, however, poor performance during the 2011 Gold Cup and 2011 Copa América, ended his contract prematurely on 11 August 2011.\n\nLa Volpe was named Guadalajara manager after a 4–0 loss against América with just four games to go in the tournament. After a win against Pachuca on his debut, he finished the league with a draw and 2 losses. However, on 30 April 2014, La Volpe was fired by Vergara after an accusation by a female staff member of improper behavior by La Volpe on her and Vergara announced that there was a lawsuit against La Volpe for that matter.\n\nFollowing the sacking of Club América's manager Ignacio Ambríz, La Volpe was announced as manager on 22 September 2016. He won his first game in charge two days later, defeating Universidad Nacional 2–1. He led América towards a strong final stretch at the end of 2016, culminating with a fourth place finish at the FIFA Club World Cup and finishing runners-up in the Apertura championship match against Tigres UANL.\n\nAlthough contributing by debuting major prospects such as Diego Lainez and Edson Álvarez, Lavolpe and America decided to part ways after a lackluster Clausura 2017 where America failed to qualify to the playoffs for the first time since 2011.\n\nLa Volpe's philosophy, style of play, and attitude is referred to as \"\"Lavolpismo\"\". Coaches who have studied under and continue to use a modified version of his style of play and philosophy are referred to as \"\"Lavolpistas\"\".\nNotable managers directly influenced by La Volpe include Miguel Herrera, José Guadalupe Cruz, Rubén Omar Romano, Hernan Cristante, Jose Saturnino Cardozo and Sergio Bueno.\n\nDuring Mexico's first group-stage match in the 2006 World Cup against Iran, La Volpe was seen chain-smoking in the dugout, leading to an official warning from FIFA that he was not allowed to smoke in the competition area. La Volpe responded by telling FIFA's executives that he would \"rather give up football than smoking\", although he later consented.\n\nHe has also had clashes with the press. During a press conference at the 2006 World Cup, La Volpe told a journalist: \"¡Fuera de mi cara! Tú no sabes nada. No te rompes mis huevos, idiotas.\" [\"Get out of my face! You know nothing. Don't break my balls, you idiots.\"]\n\nHe has odd superstitions some which include wearing a lucky tie, performing oriental rituals and avoiding shaking the opposing managers hand prior to or after the game.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004936", "title": "Northern Eagles", "text": "Northern Eagles\n\nThe Northern Eagles were a rugby league team, that competed in the National Rugby League (NRL) between 2000 and 2002. The club was formed during the rationalisation process of the NRL by the merger of the Manly Warringah Sea Eagles and the North Sydney Bears in 2000. The team shared home games between Brookvale Oval and Central Coast Stadium, Gosford, New South Wales.\n\nLittle success was had during three seasons (2000-2002), finishing 12th, 10th, and 9th, winning 30 of 76 games. Also, the new club's decision to play games in Gosford instead of the Bears home ground at North Sydney Oval alienated several North Sydney fans, despite North Sydney's planned move to the new Central Coast Stadium, which had been rebuilt for the Bears on the site of the old Grahame Park ground. In spite of this, the club provided more players for the 2001 State of Origin series' New South Wales team than any other club. The partnership folded in 2002, with Manly emerging as the stand-alone entity. The 2002 season was played under the Northern Eagles name, although effectively the club was the Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles by another name. Halfway through the season, the Eagles even abandoned playing games at Gosford, due to a sharp decline in attendances. The people of Gosford preferred to wait until a home grown team was based there. The Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles name and colours returned to the NRL in 2003.\n\nNorth Sydney now field a team in the Canterbury Cup NSW, the competition immediately below NRL level, as a feeder to the Sydney Roosters. There are plans to again be part of the NRL in coming years as the Central Coast Bears.\n\nThe Northern Eagles shared their home games between Brookvale Oval in Sydney and Grahame Park in Gosford. The record attendance for the club was 20,059 for the club's opening game against the Newcastle Knights at Grahame Park on 6 February 2000. The record attendance for the club at Brookvale Oval was 14,521 against Cronulla on 21 July 2002.\n\nA total of sixty nine players played for the club. Steve Menzies played the most games for the club, with 69 caps.\n\n\n\n\nBiggest win\n\nBiggest loss\n\nMost consecutive wins\n\nMost consecutive losses\n\nMost points in a season\n\nRecord attendance\n\nSince the Northern Eagles folded at the end of 2002, Manly-Warringah and North Sydney have gone their separate ways.\n\nManly officially returned to the NRL in 2003 (playing out of Brookvale Oval, though they played at least two games per season in Gosford until 2015) and have since played in four NRL Grand Finals (2007, 2008, 2011 and 2013), winning the premiership in 2008 and 2011.\n\nNorth Sydney began playing in the NSW Cup (formerly known as Reserve Grade) at their traditional base, North Sydney Oval, where they are the feeder team to the Sydney Roosters. Before this, Norths were the feeder team for South Sydney from 2007 to 2018. As of 2014, there have been several attempts for the Bears to come back into the NRL by being based at the Central Coast, North Sydney, Perth, Gold Coast and Brisbane. Former North Sydney internationals Greg Florimo and David Fairleigh play a prominent role in the club's push to join the NRL. So far they have failed to gain a licence to re-enter the NRL with the latest push of buying the Manly Sea Eagles licence from Penn Sports for $6,000,000 after a failed attempt by Qatar to buy Manly for $22,000,000 a week earlier.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004939", "title": "Glory Road (film)", "text": "Glory Road (film)\n\nGlory Road is a 2006 American sports drama film directed by James Gartner, based on a true story surrounding the events leading to the 1966 NCAA University Division Basketball Championship. Don Haskins portrayed by Josh Lucas, head coach of Texas Western College (now known as University of Texas at El Paso or UTEP), coached a team with an all-black starting lineup, a first in NCAA history. \"Glory Road\" explores racism, discrimination, and student athletics. Supporting actors Jon Voight and Derek Luke also star in principal roles.\n\nThe film was a co-production between the motion picture studios of Walt Disney Pictures, Jerry Bruckheimer Films, Texas Western Productions, and Glory Road Productions. It was commercially distributed by Buena Vista Pictures theatrically and by the Buena Vista Home Entertainment division for the video rental market. It premiered in theaters nationwide in the United States on January 13, 2006, grossing $42,938,449 in box office business despite generally mixed reviews from critics. \"Glory Road\" was nominated for a number of awards including the Humanitas Prize; the film won the 2006 ESPY Award for \"Best Sports Movie\".\n\nOn January 10, 2006, the original motion picture soundtrack was released by the Hollywood Records music label. The soundtrack was composed and orchestrated by musician Trevor Rabin. The DVD release, featuring theatrical trailers, extended interviews with players and colleagues of coach Haskins, and deleted scenes, among other highlights, was released in the U.S. on June 6, 2006.\n\nNewly appointed men's basketball coach Don Haskins gets a new job at Texas Western College in El Paso. Lacking necessary financial resources, he makes an effort to recruit the best players regardless of race to form a team that can compete for a national championship. Some of the young men he brings in possess skill, but are raw in talent when it comes to organized teamwork focusing on defense and ball distribution. In the end, his Texas Western Miners team comprises seven black and five white athletes; a balance that raises eyebrows among university personnel. Haskins puts his players through a rigorous training program, threatening to cut anyone who doesn't work as hard as he demands, while trying to integrate his players into a single team with a common goal.\n\nFollowing initial victories against mediocre local teams, Haskins quickly discovers that he has to give his black players more free room on the court. Yet, the more victories his team achieves with its flamboyant style, up until this point rarely seen in college basketball, the more racial hatred mounts on his squad. This culminates in threats to his own family, the beating of a player while on the road and ultimately the vandalism of his team's motel rooms by racists while they are at an away game. Increasingly frightened, the team loses its last game of the regular season after the black players stop playing with passion. Thus, the Texas Western Miners finish the 1965–1966 regular season with a 23–1 record, entering the 1966 NCAA tournament ranked third in the nation.\n\nGoing on to the NCAA final, played at College Park, Maryland, they take on the top-ranked University of Kentucky under legendary coach Adolph Rupp. Rupp, with a well-organized and more experienced all-white Wildcats squad, firmly believes that his opponent stands no chance. On the eve of the decisive game, Haskins decides to experiment with a bold strategy, informing his team that he intends to start an all-black lineup in the game, and also only using the two other black players in the rotation.\n\nIn the midst of seemingly insurmountable odds, Texas Western encounters mounting problems with forward and team captain Harry Flournoy leaving the game with an injury, and their center David Lattin in foul trouble. In a close game, the Miners narrowly lead at halftime, but finally manage to beat Kentucky 72–65 with some impressive steals, rebounding and passing techniques in the second half. The film ends with the players exiting the plane that brought them back to El Paso to the greeting of a raucous crowd.\n\n\n\"Glory Road\" was inspired by a true story, as described by Texas Western's head coach Don Haskins in his autobiography of the same title, a national bestseller released in 2005 by Hyperion Books. The book details Haskins' early life as a player (including a one-on-one game against a black friend that opened his eyes) and women's basketball coach. Like the film, it then focuses on the 1966 Texas Western men's basketball team and the aftermath of the championship. It was reprinted five times in its first four months of release and was selected as an \"Editor's Choice\" by the New York Times Book Review. Additionally, \"Glory Road\" is the name of a street on the UTEP campus near the Sun Bowl which was renamed to commemorate the 1966 NCAA championship.\n\nLater asked about his decision to start five black players, Haskins downplayed the significance of his decision. \"I really didn't think about starting five black guys. I just wanted to put my five best guys on the court. I just wanted to win the game.\" Though credited with advancing the desegregation of college basketball teams in the South, he wrote in his book \"I certainly did not expect to be some racial pioneer or to change the world.\"\n\nDunking was banned in the NCAA from 1967 to 1976, not the least due to the success of the Texas Western team and UCLA player Lew Alcindor (better known later as Kareem Abdul-Jabbar), who was just then becoming NCAA varsity eligible.\n\nNext to the closing credits, scenes from interviews with some of the real-life players from the team are shown, including one player from the opposing University of Kentucky team beaten by Texas Western in the NCAA finals, NBA head coach Pat Riley. The real-life Don Haskins was cast as an extra in the film as a gas station attendant, and David Lattin was cast as an extra as a military bartender.\n\nThe players on the 1966 team were David Lattin, Bobby Joe Hill, Willie Cager, Willie Worsley, Jerry Armstrong, Orsten Artis, Nevil Shed, Harry Flournoy, Togo Railey, Louis Baudoin, Dick Myers, and David Palacio.\nThe team was nominated in its entirety for the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, and was inducted on September 7, 2007, ten years after coach Don Haskins had already been enshrined.\n\nThe movie skipped a crucial game that Texas Western had played. On March 18, 1966, the Miners defeated Utah 85-78 in the Final Four to advance to the national championship game the following night. In the movie the team played against Kansas in the regional final and the following game was the national championship, which is incorrect.\n\nSeveral scenes in this movie were filmed at the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP), which is the former Texas Western College, and El Paso High School in El Paso, Texas. Other scenes were filmed at Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond, Louisiana, Jesuit High School and Douglas High School, formerly F. T. Nicholls High School, in New Orleans, Louisiana, and Chalmette High School in Chalmette, Louisiana. The IHOP scene was filmed in the old Airline Motors Diner on Airline Highway just west of New Orleans. The school shown for the girls' basketball game in Fort Worth, Texas at the beginning of the film is actually the front of El Paso High School, as shown by the engraving on the top of the columns. The lunchroom basketball trash can scene was filmed at Booker T. Washington High School, the first high school built in New Orleans for African-Americans. Towards the beginning of the film for the shot of Texas Western College, the Wells Fargo Plaza and the Chase Bank Building in downtown El Paso can be seen in the top left corner. The Wells Fargo Plaza was not completed until 1971, and the Chase Bank Building was still the Texas Commerce Bank building until the early 1990s. In addition, Ralph Strangis (the former Dallas Stars play-by-play announcer) had a small speaking role as a courtside broadcaster. Ben Affleck was the original choice for the role of coach Don Haskins, but had to drop out of the filming due to prior commitments. NBA point guard Kirk Hinrich was offered a role in the film, but chose not to participate \"because of time constraints\".\n\nDuring the scene of the Texas Western-Seattle University basketball game broadcast the announcers inadvertently used the call letters WTSM, which is an FM radio sports station from Tallahassee, Florida instead of the El Paso station KTSM-AM.\n\nKentucky Wildcat fans and other Rupp supporters said the film at least implicitly portrayed UK coach Adolph Rupp as a racist, with such lines as Bobby Joe Hill's that Rupp would not have recruited him. Like other teams in the Southeastern Conference, Kentucky was indeed all-white, but they were the first (and for about a decade, the only) SEC team to regularly play (inter-conference) opponents with black players (starting in the 1950s) and, in fact, took the place of Alabama (1956) and Mississippi State (1959, 1961) in the NCAA Tournament after their respective state legislatures and/or university leadership refused the invitations because of the possibility of playing against integrated squads. Starting in 1964, Rupp had recruited Kentuckians Wes Unseld and Butch Beard along with eight other black players who received formal scholarship offers before Tom Payne in 1969 became UK's first black player. But while doing so he told them (just as Branch Rickey did to Jackie Robinson) about the racial difficulties they could expect in playing in the SEC and Unseld and Beard went to Louisville instead.\n\nIn the game between East Texas State University, now known as Texas A&M University–Commerce, and Texas Western, East Texas State fans are shown throwing popcorn and drinks, and yelling racial epithets. In a later scene, racial slurs are shown painted onto the hotel rooms of the black Texas Western players. After verification that the events never took place, Texas A&M–Commerce asked for an apology from Disney and the makers of the film. Disney did not directly apologize; rather, it explained that the movie was not a documentary and that it had been necessary to consolidate events given the time limitations of the film, and that Disney did not intentionally set out to misrepresent any group and was sorry for any misunderstanding. The President of Texas A&M–Commerce said that, given the way the school was shown in the film, it was hard to believe that Disney could plausibly argue that the portrayal of the school was unintentional. The scene even prompted the Texas state senate to consider a bill which would allow financial assistance from the state to be withheld for films that portray the state negatively.\n\nOn January 10, 2006, the soundtrack was released on the Hollywood Records label. The film score was orchestrated by musician Trevor Rabin and features music composed by various artists. \n\nFollowing its release in theaters, separate widescreen and fullscreen editions of the motion picture were released on DVD in the United States on June 6, 2006. A UMD version of the film for the PlayStation Portable was also released on June 6, 2006.\n\nA restored widescreen high definition Blu-ray version was released on October 17, 2006. Special features include backstage feature film: Audio commentary with producer Jerry Bruckheimer & director James Gartner; Audio commentary with screenwriters Chris Cleveland and Bettina Gilois; \"Surviving Practice\" – a featurette looking inside a typical grueling Haskins practice with former NBA star Tim Hardaway, and seamless menus.\n\nAmong mainstream critics in the U.S., the film received generally mixed to positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 56% of 152 sampled critics gave the film a positive review, with an average score of 5.9/10. The consensus states, \"As formulaic as sports movies get, this underdog story still triumphs on the strength of its inspiring story.\" At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average out of 100 to critics' reviews, \"Glory Road\" received a score of 58 based on 33 reviews.\n\nThe film won the 2006 ESPY Award for \"Best Sports Movie\". Furthermore, in 2006, \"Glory Road\" was nominated for the Humanitas Prize. In 2007, the film garnered nominations for \"Best Screenplay, Adapted or Original\" and \"Best Original or Adapted Song\" from the Black Reel Awards.\n\nThe film became a box office number-one in the U.S. grossing $16,927,589 on its opening weekend, yet was only released straight to DVD or just shown on TV in some countries that have no connection to college basketball. The film grossed a total of $42,938,449 worldwide.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2004947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004947", "title": "Pescopagano", "text": "Pescopagano\n\nPescopagano (Lucano: ) is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Potenza, in the region of Basilicata (southern Italy). It is bounded by the comuni of Cairano, Calitri, Castelgrande, Castelnuovo di Conza, Conza della Campania, Laviano, Rapone, Sant'Andrea di Conza, Santomenna.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004949", "title": "TZU", "text": "TZU\n\nTZU (pronounced \"Tee Zed Yoo\") was an Australian hip hop group, formed in Melbourne, Victoria. TZU used instruments in live performances, giving their shows a rock-infused feeling.\n\nThe group formed in 1999 as a side project, combining members of the groups Curse ov Dialect and Pan. The name TZU is taken from the Chinese philosopher Lao Tzu. The band name was thought of and gifted to TZU by Lee Hartney from The Smith Street Band. The band originally called itself \"Tzu\" (pronounced \"tsoo\"), but changed its name due to the common mispronunciation of \"T-Z-U\". In 2005, keyboard player Duzy What was added to the group's lineup.\n\nTZU has received regular Triple J airplay of \"Position Correction\" and \"Smiling at Strangers\". In early 2006, they won Yahoo! Music's \"Who's Next\" monthly music poll.\n\nIn 2012, after a period of inactivity for the band, TZU released their last album Millions of Moments. To promote the album, they went on tour. Subsequently, Joelistics pursued a solo career and Count Bounce became a producer.\nThis meant the end of the activity around the band.\n\nThe group has performed at festivals such as the Big Day Out, Falls Festival, MS Fest and the Meredith Music Festival, in addition to smaller shows.\n\n\n\nRichard Kingsmill, Musical Director of Australian radio station Triple J, stated in regard to the band 2008 J Award nomination for \"Computer Love\": \"They open their album saying \"TZU still feelin' awesome\". I couldn't agree more. They keep growing as an act and expanding on their influences. This album has so much life and they're doing all this themselves. No mentors, producers or anyone getting in the way. Pure talent.\"\n\n\n\"Cover up motel\" is an anagram of \"computer love\" and the album of the same name features remixes of all of the tracks from \"Computer Love\" by the group's favourite Australian artists and producers. Remixers included M-phazes, Hermitude, Plutonic Lab, Trials (Funkoars) and Blue King Brown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004954", "title": "Corypha", "text": "Corypha\n\nCorypha (gebang palm, buri palm or talipot palm) is a genus of palms (family Arecaceae), native to India, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, New Guinea and northeastern Australia (Cape York Peninsula, Queensland). They are fan palms (subfamily Coryphoideae), and the leaves have a long petiole terminating in a rounded fan of numerous leaflets.\n\nAll are large palms with leaves ranging from 2–5 metres in length. They reach heights of 20–40 m and with a trunk diameter of up to 1-2.5 m. All the species are monocarpic and die after flowering. The genus is relatively slow growing and can take many years to form a trunk.\n\nSpecies include:\nIn the Philippines, buri trees, like the sago palm, are used as sources of starch made into starch balls called landang. These are traditionally cooked into various desserts and dishes, most notably the binignit.\n\nThe leaves are often used for thatching or can be woven into baskets, etc. Three kinds of fibres, namely buri, raffia, and buntal, may be obtained from the plant. The Buntal (buri palm leaves) Hat Festival is celebrated in Baliuag, Bulacan yearly every May 6\n\n"}
{"id": "2004960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004960", "title": "Travis High School", "text": "Travis High School\n\nTravis High School can refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2004966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004966", "title": "1964 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1964 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on 4 September 1964. The result was a victory for Eduardo Frei Montalva of the Christian Democratic Party, who received 56% of the vote.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates who received the most votes.\n\nThe Church Committee of the US Senate revealed in 1975 that the Central Intelligence Agency interfered substantially with the election to prevent the accession of Marxist Salvador Allende. The CIA secretly funded more than half of Frei's campaign and supported an array of pro-Christian Democratic groups. Two other political parties were funded as well in an attempt to spread the vote. The CIA's assistance to Frei took the form of polling, voter registration and get out the vote drives, in addition to covert propaganda.\n\nThe U.S. was countering the influence of the Soviet Union who was also supporting Allende with $50,000 to $400,000 every year between 1960 and 1969.\n"}
{"id": "2004973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004973", "title": "Shalka", "text": "Shalka\n\nShalka may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2004974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004974", "title": "Redback Networks", "text": "Redback Networks\n\nRedback Networks was a telecommunications equipment company, specializing in hardware and software used by ISPs to manage broadband services. In December 2006, Ericsson and Redback announced they had signed a definitive agreement under which Ericsson would acquire Redback. The transaction was completed in 2007, and Redback Networks is fully integrated in Ericsson in 2010.\n\nRedback Networks was founded in August, 1996 by Gaurav Garg and Asher Waldfogel, and traded on NASDAQ under the symbol RBAK. It was acquired by Ericsson in January 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004989", "title": "Cadoc", "text": "Cadoc\n\nSaint Cadoc or Cadog (; also ; born or before) was a 5th–6th-century Abbot of Llancarfan, near Cowbridge in Glamorganshire, Wales, a monastery famous from the era of the British church as a centre of learning, where Illtud spent the first period of his religious life under Cadoc's tutelage. Cadoc is credited with the establishment of many churches in Cornwall, Brittany Dyfed and Scotland. He is known as \"Cattwg Ddoeth\", \"the Wise\", and a large collection of his maxims and moral sayings were included in Volume III of the Myvyrian Archaiology. He is listed in the 2004 edition of the Roman Martyrology under 21 September. His Norman-era \"Life\" is a hagiography of importance to the case for the historicity of Arthur as one of seven saints' lives that mention Arthur independently of Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\".\n\nCadoc's story appears in a \"Vita Cadoci\" written shortly before 1086 by Lifris of Llancarfan; \"it was clearly written at Llancarfan with the purpose of honouring the house and confirming its endowments,\" Consequently, it is of limited historical merit though some details are of interest. Llancarfan did not survive the intrusion of Norman power into South Wales, being dissolved about 1086.\n\nCadoc began life under a cloud of violence. His father, Gwynllyw the Bearded, was one of the lesser kings of Wales, a brother of Saint Petroc, and a robber chieftain. He wanted to propose to Princess Gwladys, daughter of King Brychan of Brycheiniog, a neighboring chieftain, but Brychan turned away the envoys asking for Gwladys' hand. Wildly in love, Gwynllyw and Gwladys eloped from her father’s court at Brecon and escaped over the mountains in a raid in which 200 of Gwynllyw's 300 followers perished.\n\nBorn into the royal families of Gwynllwg and Brycheiniog, it is said, he worked miracles even before his birth. Strange lights shone in his parents’ house and the cellars were miraculously filled with food.\n\nCadoc was born in Monmouthshire around the year 497. An angel announced his birth and summoned the hermit Meuthi to baptise and teach him. A holy well sprang up for his baptism and afterwards flowed with wine and milk. It is thought that he was baptised as Cathmail (Cadfael). After the birth of his son, Gwynllyw went on a wild celebratory raid with a new band of fearless warriors. Among other livestock, he stole the cow of an Irish monk, St. Tathyw of Caerwent. This is probably Tathan, a reputed early abbot of nearby Caerwent whose dedications appear around Llantwit Major. Tathyw was not afraid of Gwynllyw and boldly went to confront him, demanding the return of the cow. On a sudden impulse, or perhaps guided by divine inspiration, Gwynllyw decided Cadoc would go to live under the monk's care, and he was sent away to be educated at Tathyw's monastery in Caerwent. Cadoc picked up a basic knowledge of Latin and received a rudimentary education that prepared him for further studies in Ireland and Wales. Most important, Cadoc learned to appreciate the life of a monk and a priest.\n\nOne day while in the Cardiff district of Glamorganshire, Cadoc was being chased by an armed swineherd from an enemy tribe. As he ran through the woods looking for a place to hide, he came upon a wild boar, white with age. Disturbed by his presence, the boar made three fierce bounds in his direction, but Cadoc's life was spared when the boar miraculously disappeared. Cadoc took this as a heavenly sign, and marked the spot with three tree branches. The valley was owned by his uncle, King Pawl of Penychen, who made a present of the land to his nephew. The location later became the site of the great church college and monastery at Llancarvan.\n\nMaches (Latin: \"Machuta\"), the sister of Cadoc according to tradition, was killed by robbers who were stealing her finest ram. Tathan, to whom the murderers confessed their crime, built a church on the spot.\n\nIn adulthood Cadoc refused to take charge of his father's army, \"preferring to fight for Christ\". He founded his first monastery at Llancarfan in the Vale of Glamorgan, and from there he went to Ireland to study for three years. Returning to Wales, he studied with Bachan or Pachan, a teacher of rhetoric from Italy. He then travelled to Scotland where he founded a monastery at Cambuslang. Back at Llancarfan, his influence helped it to grow into one of the chief monasteries in South Wales.\n\nOne tradition has it that he went on pilgrimage to Rome, but more certain is the knowledge of time spent in Brittany. He settled there on an island in the Etel river, now called L'Ile de Cado, where he built an oratory, founded a monastery and devoted himself to spreading the Gospel. There are chapels dedicated to him at Belz and Locoal-Mendon in Morbihan and at Gouesnac'h in Finistère, where he is called upon to cure the deaf. His name is also the basis of some thirty Breton place-names.\n\nAccording to Huddleston, most Welsh writers assign the founding of Llancarfan to the period of St. Germanus's visit to Britain in A.D. 447, stating further that the first principal was St. Dubric, or Dubricius, on whose elevation to the episcopate St. Cadoc, or Cattwg, succeeded. On the other hand, he notes that the \"Life of St. Germanus\", written by Constantius, a priest of Lyons, about fifty years after the death of the saint, says nothing at all of any school founded by him or under his auspices, in Britain, nor is mention made of his presence in Wales.\n\nAn alternate tradition holds that Llancarvan monastery or \"Church of the Stags\", in Glamorganshire, and not far from the Bristol Channel, was founded in the latter part of the fifth century by Cadoc. Here he established a monastery and college, which became the seminary of many great and holy men. The spot at first seemed an impossible one, an almost inaccessible marsh, but he and his monks drained and cultivated it, transforming it into one of the most famous and attractive religious homes in South Wales. The plan of the building included a monastery, a college, and a hospital. Having got the community established, he went off to Ireland to study and teach. When he returned three years later, he found the monastery in ruins. Furious, he forced the monks back to manual labour, dragging timber from the woods to begin the work of reconstruction. Two stags came out of the forest to help them, which is said to be why the stream running past the monastery is called the Nant Carfan, the Stag Brook.\n\nRev. Rees suggests that although the monastery was said to have been situated at Llancarfan, the particular spot on which it stood was called Llanfeithin.\n\nAbout 528, after his father's death, Cadoc is said to have built a stone monastery in Scotland probably at Kilmadock, which was named for the saint, north-west of Stirling, where the Annant Burn enters the River Teith about 2 miles upstream from Doune. Near the ruins of the old Kilmadock church and graveyard is Hermit's Croft, thought to be where he lived for seven years. Seven local churches that were built in his name came under the authority of Inchmahome Priory. It is also said that Cadoc's monastery was \"below Mount Bannauc\" (generally taken to be the hill southwest of Stirling down which the Bannockburn flows). It has been suggested that the monastery was where the town of St Ninians now stands, two kilometers south of Stirling. Scottish followers were known as \"Gille Dog\", the servants of Cadog, which appears as a surname, first as Dog, and later as Doig, Dock, and Doak.\n\nCadoc came into conflict with Arthur: the \"Vita\" depicts Arthur as great and bold, but willful. Lifris writes that Cadoc gave protection to a man who had killed three of Arthur's soldiers and Arthur was awarded a herd of cattle from Cadoc as compensation. Cadoc delivered them, but when Arthur took possession of them they were transformed into bundles of ferns. Similar incidents are often described in mediaeval biographies such as those of Carannog, Padern and Goeznovius: miracles in dealings with temporal authority bolster the case for church freedom. In later Arthurian Welsh Triads Cadoc, with Illtud and Peredur, is one of three knights said to have become keepers of the Holy Grail.\n\nThe kings Maelgwn of Gwynedd and Rhain Dremrudd of Brycheiniog also feature in the \"Vita\". Though Saint Cadoc's Church at Caerleon, which, though of Norman origin and much rebuilt, stands on the foundations of the Roman legion headquarters, may memorialize an early cell of Cadoc's. Caerleon was also associated with Arthur.\n\nA certain miraculous spot associated with Cadoc had a reputed healing effect until the time of king Hiuguel (\"Hywel vab weyn\", who died in his old age ca. 1041–44) when, due to a malevolent influence, the spot was lost.\n\nThis Cadoc, grandson of Brychan Brycheiniog, to whose offspring a large number of south-west British cult sites are dedicated, may be identical to or confused with Cadoc son of Brychan, for whom the churches at Llanspyddid near Brecon and at Llangadog Carmarthenshire, are said to be named along with a former chapel in the parish of Kidwelly. According to Serenus de Cressy this Cadoc died AD 490, is buried in France, and is commemorated in the Calendar on 24 January.\n\nThe epithet of Doeth (Welsh for \"wise\") induced some writers to confound him with St. Sophias (Greek for wisdom), bishop of Beneventum in Italy. Hence he is said sometimes to have died at Bannaventa (Weedon, five kilometres east of Daventry in Northamptonshire), in an episode towards the end of his \"vita\" Cadoc is carried off in a cloud from Britannia (\"de terra Britannie\") to Beneventum, where a certain prior is warned of the coming of a \"western Briton\" who is to be renamed Sophias; as \"Sophias\" Cadoc becomes abbot, bishop and martyr. A \"magna basilica\" was erected over his shrine, which visiting Britons were not allowed to enter. A fictitious \"Pope Alexander\" is made to figure in the narrative.\n\nIn \"Lives of the Cambro British saints\" (1853), Rev W. J Rees wrote:\n\nThe genealogy of the blessed Cadoc arises from the most noble emperors of Rome, from the time of the incarnation of Jesus Christ, Augustus Cesar, in whose time Christ was born, begat Octavianus, Octavianus begat Tiberius, Tiberius begat Caius, Caius begat Claudius, Claudius begat Vespasian, Vespasian begat Titus, Titus begat Domitian, Domitian begat Nero, under whom the apostles Peter and Paul suffered, Nero begat Trajan, Trajan begat Adrian, Adrian begat Antonius, Antonius begat Commodus, Commodus begat Meobus, Meobus begat Severus, Severus begat Antonius, Antonius begat Aucanus, Aucanus begat Aurelian, Aurelian begat Alexander, Alexander begat Maximus, Maximus begat Gordian, Gordian begat Philip, Philip begat Decius, Decius begat Gallus, Callus begat Valerian, Valerian begat Cleopatra, Cleopatra begat Aurelian, Aurelian begat Titus, Titus begat Probus, Probus begat Carosius, Carosius begat Dioclesian, who perscuted the Christians throughout the whole world; for in his time the blessed martyrs Alban, that is Julian, Aaron, and many others suffered. Dioclesian begat Galerius, Galerius begat Constantine the Great the son of Helen, Constantine begat Constantius, Constantius begat Maximianus, with whom the British soldiers went from Britain, and he slew Gratian the Roman emperor, and held the government of all Europe; and he did not dismiss the soldiers, which he brought with him from Britain to return to their country on account of their bravery, but gave them many provinces and countries, that is from the pool which is on the top of the mountain of Jupiter to the city named Cantguic, and until the western mound that is Cruc Ochideint; and from those soldiers arose a nation which is called Lettau. Maximianus therefore begat Owain, Owain begat Nor, Nor begat Solor, Solor begat Glywys, Glywys begat Gwynlliw, Gwynlliw begat the most blessed Cadoc of whom we are speaking.\n\nIn the 2004 edition of the Roman Martyrology, Cadoc is listed among saints thought to have died on 21 September, with the Latin name \"Cadóci\". He is mentioned as follows: 'In the monastery at Llancarfan in South Wales, Saint Cadoc the Abbot, under whose name many monasteries in Cornwall and Brittany were established.' He does not appear in the current Roman Catholic liturgical calendar of saints celebrated annually in Wales.\n\n21 September is, however, the feast day of the Apostle Saint Matthew, and in Cardiff, St Cadoc's Day has traditionally been kept on 25 September; on the French , a major pardon is traditionally celebrated on the third Sunday in September. Elsewhere his traditional feast day is 24 January.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005005", "title": "Black Eagle (tank)", "text": "Black Eagle (tank)\n\nThe Black Eagle tank (, \"Čërnyj Orël\", or \"Object 640\"), was a presumed prototype main battle tank produced in the Russian Federation. It was thought to have been developed by the KBTM design bureau in Omsk in the late 1990s. A production version of this tank has never been publicly demonstrated. The Black Eagle has been cancelled, with all production and development halted.\n\nThe company that was developing the tank, Omsktransmash, has gone bankrupt, and its designs and projects have been absorbed into Uralvagonzavod and state owned services. Uralvagonzavod was developing the T-95 in competition to the Black Eagle, and now owns the rights to both projects, but the Russian government has withdrawn all support and funding for the project.\n\nDevelopment started during the 1980s, when the design bureau of the Leningrad Kirov Plant (LKZ) developed a new design based on the stretched T-80U chassis. Later, when the bureau closed, the documentation was transferred to KBTM in Omsk.\n\nA mock-up of the Black Eagle was first demonstrated at the VTTV arms exposition in Omsk, in September 1997, making a single brief pass, far from the reviewing stands. The tank appeared to be a standard T-80U hull, topped by a very large turret and gun, obscured by camouflage netting and canvas. The turret later turned out to be a crude mock-up.\n\nAn early prototype was shown at an arms exposition in Siberia, in June 1999. This tank had an elongated hull with seven pairs of road wheels instead of the T-80's six, and a turret still mostly obscured by camouflage netting.\n\nThe tank was based on a lengthened T-80U hull, with an extra pair of road wheels and a brand new turret. It appeared to have had very thick front armour and new-generation \"Kaktus\" explosive reactive armour on the hull and turret. The turret had a very large, box-shaped turret bustle instead of the traditional dome shape of previous Soviet and Russian main battle tanks. According to Russian reports, the Black Eagle design had abandoned the carousel-style autoloader in the fighting compartment for an autoloader mounted in the large western-style turret bustle, which incorporates a blow-out armoured ammunition compartment for crew safety, like the U.S. M1 Abrams, the German Leopard 2, British Challenger 2, French Leclerc and several other modern western tanks. The prototype had a 125 mm tank gun, but it was stated that it may have accommodated a larger 152 mm gun (compared to the 120 and 125 mm-calibre guns of main battle tanks in service). There was debate about whether the Black Eagle would incorporate the Drozd or Arena (countermeasure).\n\nThe Black Eagle project was formally cancelled in 2001. Development of the Black Eagle was stopped due to financial problems, questions about the reliability of the design and, most importantly, the terrible performance of the T-80, upon which it was modeled, in the first Chechen war. The T-80 performed so poorly that after the conflict General-Lieutenant A. Galkin, the head of the Armor Directorate, convinced the Minister of Defence to never again procure tanks with gas-turbine engines. This included the Black Eagle, which was promptly cancelled. The manufacturers, Omsk Transmash, attempted to appeal the decision, but were unable to pursue the appeal after filing for bankruptcy in 2002. As of July 2008, the Russian army planned to adopt a new Uralvagonzavod tank after 2010, possibly designated T-95. However, development of the T-95 tank was also cancelled, in May 2010.\nColonel Vladimir Voitov, head of research at the Main Directorate of the Armored Troops, denied the existence of the tank in an interview with the Echo Moskvy radio in September 2009. \"There was no such project...and those 20-year-old pictures show a mock-up of a futuristic tank which remained just a product of someone's imagination,\" ... \"the turret of the vehicle did not have anything inside.\" It was announced that some technical solutions developed for the Black Eagle tank will be incorporated into the Armata Universal Combat Platform which is currently in production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005008", "title": "Operation Platinum Fox", "text": "Operation Platinum Fox\n\nOperation Platinum Fox (; ) was a German and Finnish military offensive launched during World War II. Platinum Fox took place on the Eastern Front and had the objective of capturing the Barents Sea port of Murmansk. It was part of a larger operation, called Operation Silver Fox (\"Silberfuchs\"; ).\n\nAt the beginning of Operation Barbarossa German units of Army of Norway, commanded by Nikolaus von Falkenhorst, attacked from Norway to secure Petsamo at the Finnish-Soviet border as part of Operation Reindeer. They joined Finnish forces on the border of Soviet territory. These divisions consisted of elite mountain troops mostly from Austria specially trained to operate above the Arctic Circle. The Finnish-German forces launched Operation Silver Fox (\"Silberfuchs\"), attacking Murmansk from two directions. The assault from Finnish Petsamo directly towards the port of Murmansk was codenamed Platinum Fox (\"Platinfuchs\"). The other assault was an attack Kandalaksha from Salla and to isolate Murmansk from the south by cutting off the Murmansk railway. This concurrent operation was codenamed Operation Arctic Fox (\"Polarfuchs\").\n\nOn 29 June 1941 the Platinum Fox phase of Silver Fox was launched. Mountain Corps Norway under the command of \"Generalleutnant\" Eduard Dietl, consisting of the German 2nd Mountain Division and German 3rd Mountain Division together with the Finnish \"Ivalo\" Border Guard Battalion crossed the border and advanced on Murmansk. They were opposed by units of the Soviet 14th Army, namely the 14th and 52nd Rifle Division, which were commanded by Valerian A. Frolov. After some initial successes the advance was slowed. The German offensive met with lots of problems from the start on, as the rough terrain with bad roads made any advance difficult. The German units also lacked proper maps and had to move mostly through unknown terrain.\n\nThe two divisions advanced in two directions. In the south the 3rd Mountain Division was able to penetrate the Soviet lines at the Titovka Valley in one day after fierce fighting and secured a bridge over the river. In the north the 2nd Mountain Division also made good progress in the first hours to secure the neck of the Rybachy Peninsula.\n\nNevertheless, the offensive soon met with heavy Soviet resistance, especially from some ad-hoc ground units of the Soviet Northern Fleet. The 2nd Mountain Division could not advance into the Rybachy Peninsula, and already at the start of July had to go into the defensive in this sector. Further south, after a heavy Soviet counterattack, the Germans resumed their offensive to the east to reach the Litsa River, with joint forces from both divisions. With the element of surprise lost, the Germans were only able to establish a small bridgehead over the river. After a heavy Soviet counterattack on 7 July, Dietl requested more reinforcements, but he received only a motorized machine-gun battalion from Norway.\n\nOn 10 July a new plan had to be made, after a copy of the offensive plan fell into Soviet hands. The 2nd Mountain Division had to expand the bridgehead, while the 3rd Mountain Division had to advance on the south and establish another bridgehead. The renewed attack was again initially successful, but after the Soviets landed with two battalions on the other side of the Litsa Bay further north, Dietl had to stop the offensive. The situation now became worse for the Germans, as the thinly stretched forces had to hold a 57 km long frontline along the Litsa River to the Rybachy Peninsula. With the absence of roads, the supply situation also deteriorated and the offensive stalled. Dietl asked for more reinforcements and Hitler, after initially being reluctant, agreed to transfer the 6th Mountain Division from Greece to Dietl's command. After more arguing, in August the 388th Infantry Regiment and the 9th SS Regiment from Norway were also assigned to the operation.\n\nDietl now made plans to renew the offensive, with the fresh SS regiments leading the assault, in September before the onset of the winter would make it difficult to fight. But a combination of British and Soviet surface ships and aircraft, which constantly attacked German shipping to the northern ports, hampered the arrival of reinforcements and supplies and would delay the arrival of the 6th Mountain Division to October. Nevertheless, on 8 September Dietl started with the renewed offensive without the 6th Mountain Division. The initial assault failed badly and the SS regiments, untrained for arctic warfare, took heavy casualties. The Germans made some initial progress, but a Soviet counterattack stopped the offensive soon after.\n\nConstant attacks by Soviet submarines and British surface ships (consisting of a force of two aircraft carriers, two cruisers and six destroyers) also sank numerous German ships and worsened the supply situation even more. For this reason von Falkenhorst prohibited German shipping from sailing east of the North Cape on 13 September. Hitler again pressured to continue the offensive, but Dietl made it clear, that with the dire supply situation and without further reinforcements no further advance was possible. On 19 September the Germans retreated from their bridgehead east of the Litsa river. More Soviet reinforcements arrived in the area and on 21 September the German offensive was broken off. Mountain Corps Norway was ordered to now defend the frontline and secure the Petsamo area and its nickel-mines, as a renewed offensive was ruled out. In mid-October the 2nd Mountain Division withdrew to Petsamo and the 6th Mountain Division replaced the 3rd Mountain Division along the Litsa line. The 3rd Mountain Division was then moved back to Germany in December.\n\nDuring the winter of 1941, the Soviets launched several heavy attacks on the Litsa as well as the Rybachy Peninsula front. The dug-in German units were able to hold it, cementing the front line for the next years.\n\nOperation Platinum Fox was a German failure. Although Dietl was able to make some ground, his insufficient forces were soon stopped by the Soviets. The presence of British-Soviet naval forces at the Barents Sea hampered German efforts to adequately supply his forces and the general unwillingness of the German High Command to reinforce something which they considered as a secondary theater paved the way for the only successful Soviet resistance in the early stages of Operation Barbarossa. The failure of Platinum Fox had a significant impact on the course of the war in the east. Murmansk was a major base for the Soviet Northern fleet and it also was the destination of shipped Western Allied aid to the Soviet Union. With the entry of the United States into the war in December 1941, the stream of supplies intensified even more through the Lend-Lease pact. A large part of this was delivered via the Northern route to the port of Murmansk, and the port of Arkhangelsk, contributing to its continued resistance.\n\nIn recognition of its role in the successful defense of Murmansk, the Soviet 52nd Rifle Division was renamed 10th Guards Rifle Division on 26 December 1941.\n\n\nUnder the direct command of AOK Lappland:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005009", "title": "List of United States state and local law enforcement agencies", "text": "List of United States state and local law enforcement agencies\n\nThis is a list of U.S. state and local law enforcement agencies — local, regional, special and statewide government agencies (state police) of the U.S. states, of the federal district, and of the territories that provide law enforcement duties, including investigations, prevention and patrol functions. In addition, the Attorney General's office of each state may have their own investigators.\n\nThe Bureau of Justice Statistics conducted a census of state and local law enforcement agencies every four years 1992-2008.\n"}
{"id": "2005010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005010", "title": "Annihilus", "text": "Annihilus\n\nAnnihilus () is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, primarily as an adversary to the Fantastic Four and first appeared in \"Fantastic Four Annual\" #6, published in November 1968. He was created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby. He was responsible for the attacks in the \"Annihilation\" comic book event.\n\nAnnihilus has at various times been the ruler of the Negative Zone, controlling its inhabitants via his powerful Cosmic Control Rod. He first encountered the Fantastic Four after Reed Richards discovered how to travel to the Negative Zone from Earth. Over the years he clashed with the Fantastic Four on many occasions, often with the group foiling his plans to invade Earth. He is often the partner of Blastaar, who started out as a rival to Annihilus' rule of the Negative Zone before becoming allies.\n\nHe would later lead an enormous fleet of space ships from the Negative Zone into the main universe, setting off the Annihilation Wave by destroying or subjugating many planets. The armada was opposed by a number of cosmic heroes such as Star-Lord, Drax the Destroyer, and Silver Surfer, and was ultimately stopped by the cosmic entity Galactus, with the Earth born hero Nova killing Annihilus in the process. He was later reborn as an infant in the aftermath of the \"Annihilation\" storyline.\n\nAnnihilus has appeared in a number of Marvel media, including several Fantastic Four shows, \"The Super Hero Squad Show\", \"\", \"Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H.\" and \"Ultimate Spider-Man\". In 2009, Annihilus was ranked as IGN's 94th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nThe character first appears in \"Fantastic Four Annual\" #6 (1968), and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. He had a recurring role in the series, including issues #108-110, #140-141, #181-183, #251-256, #289-290, and \"Fantastic Four Unlimited\" #3.\n\nHe played a small role in the Kree-Skrull War issues of \"Avengers\", #89, 96-97. Other appearances include \"Avengers\" vol 1 #233, \"Marvel Team-Up\" #2, \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #75, and \"Thor\" #404-405, #434-435.\n\nThe character was the main antagonist in \"Annihilation\", appearing in the prologue, the second issue of the \"Silver Surfer\" mini-series, and all six issues of the main title. He died in issue six, but has since been reborn. He appeared as an infant in \"War of Kings: Ascension\" #2.\n\nAnnihilus first encountered the Fantastic Four when they entered the Negative Zone seeking anti-particles needed to treat Sue's cosmic ray-related pregnancy complications. Annihilus's minions captured the heroes, but they escaped, stealing his Control Rod. They returned it after siphoning off the needed anti-particles and returned to Earth.\n\nAnnihilus was challenged by a research scientist, Janus the Nega-Man, who developed a module capable of harnessing antimatter energy within the Negative Zone. Annihilus defeated Janus, forcing the Nega-Man to lead him to Earth, but Janus was instead seemingly killed in the exploding atmosphere where matter meets antimatter. Annihilus nearly crossed over to Earth through one of Mister Fantastic's portals, but was driven back by the Avengers. Annihilus battled the Frightful Four, and once again attempted to escape the Negative Zone, but was foiled by Spider-Man and the Human Torch.\n\nSensing great power within Franklin Richards, Annihilus abducted him, along with the Fantastic Four, Medusa, Wyatt Wingfoot, and Agatha Harkness into the Negative Zone. He used a machine to prematurely release the child's full power potential, hoping to transfer the expended energies into himself. The Four defeated Annihilus and escaped back to Earth. Annihilus later allied with Mr Fantastic against the Mad Thinker.\n\nBlastaar, a fellow Negative Zone warlord, stole the Control Rod and left Annihilus to die. Desperate, Annihilus tried to escape to Earth. He was defeated by the Avengers and Fantastic Four before returning to the Negative Zone. He was revived by Blastaar and regained his Control Rod.\n\nAnnihilus attacked the dimension of Asgard, home of the Norse Gods, but was repelled by King Odin. Annihilus later kidnapped a sleeping Odin, transporting him to the Negative Zone to steal his power. Annihilus was defeated by Thunderstrike.\n\nSoon after, Annihilus and Blastaar joined forces with fellow Negative Zone warlord Syphonn. During a confrontation with Adam Warlock, Annihilus and Blastaar betrayed Syphonn, allowing him to be defeated.\n\nAnnihilus began leading the Annihilation Wave, an enormous fleet of Negative Zone battleships, ostensibly claiming to have the goal of conquering the universe. He claims that the universe is expanding into areas of the Negative Zone, making the universe now rightfully his territory. His forces destroy the Kyln, an intergalactic power station and maximum security prison, and the planet Xandar, headquarters of the Nova Corps. He allies with Thanos and two beings that were trapped in the Kyln by Galactus, Tenebrous, and Aegis. Tenebrous and Aegis defeat Galactus and the Silver Surfer, and the two are connected to a giant mechanism in Annihilus' starship. Annihilus' goal is actually creating a massive Power Cosmic bomb that will destroy the Universe and the Negative Zone, leaving Annihilus the only survivor. Drax and the Silver Surfer manage to free Galactus, who destroys the Annihilation Wave. Nova battles and kills Annihilus. Annihilus was later reborn as an infant with all of the original's memories.\n\nDuring the War of Kings, the Negative Zone is invaded by Darkhawk and his ally Talon. They discover the infant Annihilus and his Cosmic Control Rod have been placed under the care of a lesser lord of the Negative Zone, Catastrophus. Catastrophus had been using the Cosmic Control Rod to stunt the development of the infant Annihilus, hoping to prolong his own rule. Talon slew Catastrophus and seized the Control Rod, before calling out to the infant Annihilus and asking it to remember in the future that he had spared the creature's life.\n\nDuring a later incursion into the Negative Zone, Johnny Storm discovers that Annihilus's forces have been rebuilt to \"pre-Crunch assault levels,\" but are currently embroiled in a struggle with Blastaar's forces. Central to that struggle is a city built from the remains of the Negative Zone Prison Alpha. The war is further complicated by the involvement of the Universal Inhumans.\n\nThe Human Torch dies stopping a horde of aliens from the Negative Zone. Later, when Reed Richards opens a window to the Negative Zone and menaces Annihilus with the Ultimate Nullifier, Annihilus in return brandishes Johnny's uniform to Reed.\n\nAnnihilus uses regenerative surgery to revive the Human Torch, turning him into a gladiator when he refuses to reopen the portal from the Negative Zone.\n\nAnnihilus is contacted by an alternative version of Reed Richards (one of the last survivors of the Council of Reeds) via the Cult of the Negative Zone, a religious movement worshipping Annihilus. As part of a plan to orchestrate an event known as the \"War of Four Cities\", Richards offers to open a massive portal between the Negative Zone and Earth, allowing the Annihilation Wave to pass through. Annihilus agrees, and sends forces to attack the Baxter Building and secure its Negative Zone gateway.\n\nJohnny Storm learns of the plan and enlists the Inhumans Light Brigade in an uprising, attacking Annihilus' forces as they prepare to cross over. With the aid of Light Brigade member Kal Blackbane, Johnny wrests the Cosmic Control Rod away from Annihilus, and takes control of the Annihilation Wave armada, using it to battle the Kree fleet as well as the Mad Celestials. Annihilus is captured and a leash is placed around his neck.\n\nAfter a rebellion breaks out for free elections in the Negative Zone, Annihilus wins as a write-in candidate for new leader of the Negative Zone, with 14,980,336,901,214 votes for him.\n\nDuring the \"Infinity\" storyline, Annihilus appears as a member of the Galactic Council.\n\nIt is later revealed that Annihilus is still trapped in a child form, and has been using a mechanized stand-in for public appearances. Seeking to return to a more impressive size, he has his agents arrange the abduction of Bruce Banner. After his scientists study Banner's physiology and learn what allows him to transform into the Hulk, Annihilus is mutated into a gigantic, more monstrous form. With this new form, Annihilus and his army make another attempt to conquer the universe. They are successful, ravaging many worlds and killing most of Earth's heroes. However, with help from Above-All-Others, Thanos and Adam Warlock are able to travel back in time and prevent Annihilus' invasion from ever occurring. Warlock then uses his powers to devolve Annihilus into a primitive insect, which is then stepped on by Thanos.\n\nAnnihilus, now back to a more standard form, later begins kidnapping and enslaving shipwreck survivors on a desolate world. Using the Nega-Bands to open a portal out of the Negative Zone, Annihilus plots to destroy Earth and the rest of the universe by using a powerful energy cannon. However, he is thwarted by the All-New, All-Different Avengers, who are able to steal the Nega-Bands and destroy the weapon.\n\nAnnihilus is capable of self-propelled flight and can withstand the vacuum of space. He wears \"armor\"—actually an insectoid exoskeleton with some armored components—that grants him resistance to most forms of injury (extreme temperatures, ballistic force, bullets, etc.) He has superhuman physical abilities. He is able to breathe in the vacuum of empty space, and his wings can carry him at speeds of up to 150 miles per hour.\n\nAnnihilus wields the Cosmic Control Rod, a weapon of great power. It allows him to manipulate cosmic energy in order to control the molecular structure of matter. The rod is capable of projecting vast amounts of destructive energy and concussive force. Continuous exposure to the cosmic energies of the rod has also retarded the aging process of its wielder, making Annihilus virtually immortal. Though not always engaging himself in direct combat, Annihilus has proved to be a very formidable opponent, and was able to defeat the Thing, Thor, Nova Prime, Quasar, and Blastaar in individual fights with relative ease. Annihilus also sometimes wields energy pistols based on Tyannan technology that he has modified.\n\nIn \"Annihilation: Nova\", Annihilus killed Quasar, and gained his Quantum Bands, adding to Annihilus's power. By using these in combination with most of his stored power reserves Annihilus was able to withstand a massive blast from Galactus in the \"Annihilation \" series. While the blast destroyed his entire army, along with several solar systems, Annihilus was able to survive.\n\nHe also leads an elite personal guard, the Centurions, 200 superpowered aliens, each from a different Negative Zone world. They are extremely loyal to him and form a devastatingly effective army.\n\n\"Fantastic Four\" #600 reveals that Annihilus is always reborn upon death, as he was at the conclusion of the \"Annihilation\" miniseries. This is described by Annihilus as \"endless resurrection . . . can't stop living.\"\n\nWhen the mutant known as Legion traveled back in time to kill his father's long time nemesis Magneto to prevent Xavier from dealing with years of conflict, so Charles could be a true father to him, Legion failed and accidentally killed Xavier instead.\n\nWith the battle between Legion and a team of X-Men sent back in time to stop him seen worldwide on television, mutants were revealed for the first time a full decade before they were seen in the normal Marvel Universe. Apocalypse made the decision to move up his quest for the creation of a world in his image: a world where mutants ruled and Survival of the Fittest was the only law.\n\nIn this harsh world, the X-Man known as Blink would travel to the Negative Zone where she met Ahmyor, a freedom fighter native to the Negative Zone who joined the rebellion against their malicious leader, Blastaar. The two would exchange fists rather than greetings at first, though the battle would end in a stalemate. Once Ahmyor realized she meant him no harm, the two called a truce and he began to explain to her his situation. The people wanted to restore control to their previous ruler, Annihilus, who was also malevolent, but the lesser of two evils in this case. For some time, Ahmyor had been haunted by visions of their tortured leader Annihilus who had been made undone in his quest for order through domination. He could feel his gnawing need for power, the endless struggle that drove him to madness, but blue-clad interlopers called the Fantastic Four would inevitably see to his end.\n\nDespite not having any memories of herself, the girl found the spirit of rebellion to be a familiar one and joined his cause. Over the course of a week, Ahmyor would fall in love with this angel. She made him extremely happy as both a warrior and as a man and helped restore his soul. Eventually, the couple was captured and taken to Blastaar who revealed that Ahmyor was actually Annihilus. Blink felt betrayed as she believed she had done the honorable thing by aiding in a rebellion, but it appeared that she was only helping a dictator reclaim his empire. Ahmyor explained that he was amnesiac just like Blink was and had no recollection of his former life. When he was removed from power, he regressed to an earlier, humanoid stage in his being. However, his knowledge of the truth caused him to begin reverting into his insectoid form.\n\nBlastaar had previously acquired the Annihilation Cannon, a deadly invention made by Annihilus that could not be fired without the Cosmic Control Rod joined to the form of its creator. With Ahmyor/Annihilus now in his clutches, Blastaar finally had the key to active this ultimate weapon and he planned on using it to destroy Earth. Suddenly, Blink with a renewed dedication to her beloved and found him bound to the Annihilation Cannon. She moved quickly to free him, but discovered that the device had been altered so that it would explode if Annihilus was removed from it. Ahmyor's transformation into Annihilus was nearly complete and he urged her to leave him and the Negative Zone as he was no longer the man she loved. With tears in her eyes, Blink teleported Ahmyor away, sent the Annihilation Cannon to Blastaar's position, and teleported herself back home where the X-Men had been frantically searching for her. Subsequently, Annihilus was once again himself. An image fluttered across his mind's eye, causing him to pause, and giving him a moment's worth of peace. It was an image of the only being ever to reach him, the only one he ever loved. However, it faded just as quickly as it had come and was replaced with rage that burned in his heart as thoughts of revenge boiled within him.\n\nIn the Marvel Mangaverse, Annihilus is a gigantic, monster that attacks the Earth in order to destroy it. He is confronted and defeated by the Fantastic Four.\n\nThe Ultimate Fantastic Four encountered an Annihilus-like creature in their first foray into the N-Zone. Translating machines implanted in the Four's space suits dubbed the creature Nihil, though Nihil himself stated this is a caste title and not his proper name. Nihil ruled over a space station composed of the fused remains of several alien space ships. It orbited near a dying red dwarf star for warmth because the whole N-Zone is experiencing entropic decay.\n\nLike Annihilus, Nihil and his caste are from a species that can live over a million years. Not wanting to die before he is supposed to naturally, when Nihil learned that the UFF were from a different, younger universe he engineered a plan to escape and kill them. Johnny Storm, who for the entire trip had been experiencing discomfort, fell ill and was rushed by Sue back to their ship. Reed Richards and Ben Grimm went along with her but once they returned to tell Nihil of their situation Nihil revealed his intention to steal their ship, named by Johnny as the \"Awesome\", and go to Earth. He exploded his translation devices, thereby rupturing Reed and Ben's space suits and exposing them to the N-Zone's highly acidic atmosphere. Nihil then sent his previously unseen soldiers to kill them but Reed sealed his damaged suit by covering his shattered face mask with his hand, and Ben discovered his lungs filter out poisons, enabling him to battle Nihil.\n\nIn the ensuing fight, Ben ripped Nihil's right wing off, most of Nihil's soldiers were beaten by the enslaved alien refugees living on the space station, and Ben and Reed escaped to the \"Awesome\". Nihil then launched a bioship after the UFF when they were racing back to Earth. Nihil's flagship managed to make it through but both ships crashed on to the Las Vegas Strip. Another battle started between Nihil and the Fantastic Four. During it, Johnny Storm emerged from the \"Awesome\", discovering that he would periodically enter hibernation and shed his dead skin cells so that his powers would regenerate, and then entered the fight. At the climax of the battle, Nihil pinned Reed to the ground and opened his jaws to consume him, but Reed, stating that he was better than Nihil because he could adapt and Nihil just wanted to rule, stretched and jammed a plasma emitting weapon into Nihil's mouth. Nihil tried to pry the rod out by the trigger and his head was subsequently blown up. Nihil is at this time presumed dead and his body is most likely in government possession. Many of Nihil's soldiers survived and they were presumably captured if not killed. The lasting effect of this battle is that the Fantastic Four's secrecy was blown and the team had to be given a formal introduction to the world.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005011", "title": "1958 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1958 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on 4 September 1958. The result was a victory for Jorge Alessandri, who ran as an independent.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates that received the most votes.\n"}
{"id": "2005019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005019", "title": "Wolverine World Wide", "text": "Wolverine World Wide\n\nWolverine World Wide, Inc. or Wolverine Worldwide, is a publicly traded American footwear manufacturer based in Rockford, Michigan. The shoemaker is known for its eponymous brand, Wolverine Boots and Shoes, as well as other brands, such as Hush Puppies and Merrell. The company also manufactures licensed footwear for other firms, such as Caterpillar and Harley-Davidson. In 2012, Wolverine World Wide added Saucony, Keds, Stride Rite and Sperry Top-Sider to its list of brands, after acquiring the Performance Lifestyle Group of Collective Brands in a $1.23 billion transaction that also involved the sale of Payless ShoeSource and Collective Licensing International to private equity firms Blum Capital Partners and Golden Gate Capital. \n\nG. A. Krause and Fredrick Hirth founded the company in 1883. Fredrick Hirth and Mr. Krause bought a small leather shop in Grand Rapids, Michigan, starting with a capital investment of $2,900. In 1901, they decided to build a plant in Rockford Michigan, just north of Grand Rapids. They purchased and expanded the Rogue River Electric Light and Power Company to power their new plant and the city of Rockford. In 1903, operations began and in 1908, a tannery followed. The company now processed its own raw materials and manufactured its own shoes sold through the Hirth-Krause Company. In 1921, the company changed its name to Wolverine Shoe and Tanning Corporation. From 1916-1923, its earnings increased 700%.\n\nIn 1964, the company changed its name to Wolverine World Wide, Inc. and in 1965 became a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Hush Puppies, a casual footwear brand founded by the company in 1958, quickly rose to popularity in the 1960s.\n\nIn 1994, Wolverine World Wide introduced Cat Footwear, a licensed brand of shoes using the Caterpillar Inc. name.\n\nIn 1995, the Council of Fashion Designers of America voted Hush Puppies as Fashion Accessory of the Year.\n\nIn 1997, the company continued expanding by purchasing the Merrell brand.\n\nIn 1998 Wolverine World Wide acquired the global license for footwear from the Harley-Davidson Motor Company.\n\nWolverine World Wide acquisitions in the 2000s included the 2003 purchase of Sebago and 2009 purchases of Chaco and the UK-based brand Cushe. The company discontinued the Cushe brand in 2015 and sold Sebago to Italian publicly-traded company BasicNet in 2017.\n\nIn 2006 Wolverine World Wide entered into a global footwear licensing deal with Patagonia. The company stopped production of Patagonia footwear in 2014.\n\nWolverine World Wide nearly doubled in size after its 2012 acquisition of the Performance Lifestyle Group of Collective Brands, which added Saucony, Keds, Stride Rite and Sperry Top-Sider brands to its portfolio. In 2017 the company sold its United States Department of Defense footwear business along with a factory in Big Rapids, Michigan to Tennessee-based footwear manufacturer Original Footwear. In the same year Wolverine World Wide converted Stride Rite to a licensed brand operated by New York City-based Vida Shoes International.\n\nThe company is based out of corporate offices in Rockford, Michigan and Waltham, Massachusetts. Wolverine World Wide also operates three distribution centers in the U.S., one in Canada and one in the Netherlands. As of December 29, 2018, Wolverine World Wide operated 80 retail stores in the U.S. and Canada and 42 consumer-direct eCommerce sites. According to the company's 2018 annual report, \"substantially all of the units sourced by the Company are procured from numerous third-party manufacturers in the Asia Pacific region. The Company maintains offices in the Asia Pacific region to develop and facilitate sourcing strategies.\"\n\nWolverine World Wide had various PFAs dumpsites throughout Belmont and Rockford that poisoned the drinking water of residents. These sites poisoned the water for hundreds of residents and have been linked to various negative health effects, including cancer. \n\nIn 2019, Wolverine World Wide reorganized into two operating segments:\n\n"}
{"id": "2005022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005022", "title": "Ukrainian Riding Horse", "text": "Ukrainian Riding Horse\n\nThe Ukrainian Riding Horse () or Ukrainian Saddle Horse is a modern Ukrainian breed of warmblood sport horse. Breeding began in the years after the Second World War at the stud farm of Dnipropetrovsk in central Ukraine – at that time in the USSR – and later expanded to three other state stud farms. It derives from cross-breeding of Hanoverian, Thoroughbred and Trakehner stallions with local mares or with Hungarian Furioso, Gidran Arab or Nonius mares. It incorporates the last bloodlines of the extinct Orlov-Rostopchin or Russian Saddle Horse. It was bred to compete in show jumping, three-day eventing and dressage, but is also suitable as a general riding horse.\n\nBreeding of the Ukrainian Saddle Horse began in the years after the Second World War at the stud farm of Dnipropetrovsk, in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast in central Ukraine, which at that time was part of the Soviet Union. Breeding was based principally on cross-breeding of Hanoverian, Thoroughbred and Trakehner stallions with mares of local or of Hungarian Furioso, Gidran Arab or Nonius stock, but also incorporated the last bloodlines of the extinct Orlov-Rostopchin or Russian Saddle Horse. \n\nBreeding expanded to three other state stud farms: the Oleksandriysky stud at in Oleksandriia Raion of Kirovohrad Oblast in central Ukraine: the Provalsky stud at in Sverdlovsk Raion of Luhansk Oblast in the easternmost part of Ukraine; and the Skadovsky stud at Bilozerka in Kherson Oblast in the south of the country. When these were closed, breeding continued at Dnipropetrovsk, and some horses were moved to the historic at , in Bilovodsk Raion of Luhansk Oblast, and to the at Yahilnytsia in Chortkiv Raion of Ternopil Oblast in the western part of the country. From 1975 breeding was also carried out at the Lozivsky stud farm at , in Lozivsky Raion of Kharkiv Oblast in eastern Ukraine.\n\nThere are seven lines within the breed, of which the Bespechny is closest to the extinct Orlov-Rostopchin breed.\n\nA stud-book was begun in 1971. The breed received the official approval of the State Committee for Food and Procurement of the Council of Ministers of the USSR in 1990, not long before the break-up of the Soviet Union and the independence of Ukraine.\n\nIn 2004 there were 1393 horses registered, distributed among 5 state stud farms and 20 breeders in 13 of the oblasts of Ukraine; of these, 84 were stallions. This represented about 23% of the total purebred horse population of the country, and was slightly lower than the numbers of the Russian Trotter, the most numerous breed.\n\nThe Ukrainian Riding Horse is muscular and solidly built, with high withers, a broad deep chest, a long straight back, a long sloping croup and strong legs well set on. The head is well proportioned, with a straight profile.\n\nThe Ukrainian Riding Horse has been bred to compete in show jumping, three-day eventing and dressage. It is also suitable as a general riding horse.\n"}
{"id": "2005025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005025", "title": "Blastaar", "text": "Blastaar\n\nBlastaar (, ), sometimes called the Living Bomb-Burst and Blasstaar, is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Blastaar is an opponent of the Fantastic Four and lives in the Negative Zone. He is also an enemy of Annihilus, another Fantastic Four villain.\n\nBlastaar first appeared in \"Fantastic Four\" #62 (May 1967), and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.\n\nBlastaar is a member of an alien race known as the Baluurians, of the planet Baluur in the Negative Zone (in Sector 56-D, as charted by Reed Richards). He ruled the Baluurians as their monarch ruthlessly until his subjects rebelled and rose against him. Blastaar was deposed as monarch, and became a Negative Zone outlaw. Blastaar was locked up in a special containment suit and set adrift in outer space in the Negative Zone. When he broke loose he sighted Reed Richards, who had been trapped in the Negative Zone as well and followed him and Triton back to Earth. He fought with the Sandman and Reed Richards' group of superheroes, the Fantastic Four but was driven back to the Negative Zone by Mister Fantastic.\n\nOver the following years Blastaar would repeatedly return to Earth to attempt to conquer it and fight the Fantastic Four many times, as well as the Avengers, Thor and other superheroes.\n\nBlastaar went into a coma at one point, but was revived by Professor Paxton Pentecost and became an unwilling servant of Pentecost. Blastaar was forced to battle the Human Torch and the Hulk. He was defeated and imprisoned in adamantium and sunk into the Atlantic Ocean. Blastaar was later freed from his adamantium prison, and battled the Inhumans.\n\nBlastaar later made his first alliance with Annihilus, another conqueror living in the Negative Zone. Blastaar utilized the Super-Adaptoid in an attempt to regain the throne of Baluur. He was opposed by his wife Nyglar, who summoned the Thing and the Avengers to thwart Blastaar and his allies. Blastaar later did regain the throne of Baluur and started to conquer Negative Zone, only opposed by Annihilus. Blastaar led a fleet of warships to conquer Earth, and captured Reed Richards. Blastaar freed Annihilus in an attempt to prevent the Fantastic Four from thwarting his conquest of Earth. Blastaar and Annihilus battled, however. Blastaar was betrayed by his subordinate, Tanjaar, and paralyzed.\n\nBlastaar was later discovered in the Negative Zone by the Eternals. He overthrew the Eternals, but was then defeated by the Avengers and remanded to custody of the Eternals.\n\nAnnihilus and Blastaar have teamed up at times, but usually they are fierce enemies. Blastaar's son, Burstaar, has helped his father, but has his own ambitions and allied himself with the Kree.\n\nBlastaar was seen with the Spaceknights, aiding Nova's attempt to assassinate Annihilus.\n\nBlastaar also appeared in the opening pages of \"\" #1. Blastaar is seen leading a group of Kree soldiers against the Phalanx, but the group is defeated and Blastaar is captured. The Phalanx interrogates Blastaar, and continue to torture him until he apparently dies when he doesn't say a word. This death appears to be simply a hibernation that Blastaar can reverse, which he has used to fool the Phalanx temporarily.\n\nPrior to his appearance in \"Guardians of the Galaxy\" #7, Blastaar became king of the Negative Zone. He and his forces seize control of Negative Zone Prison Alpha and recruit a number of the imprisoned Earth superhumans there into his army. Later he is approached by the Raptors Talon and Razor, who offer Blastaar the Cosmic Control Rod they took from Catastrophus, in exchange for his assistance in influencing the outcome of the War between the Shi'ar and the Inhumans. The prison is taken away from Blastaar by super-powered forces of the US Government. The convict Hardball assists in this setback for Blastaar.\n\nFollowing the climax of the war, Blastaar had an encounter with Nova and his fellow Centurions who were in the process of battling renegade Kree and Shi'ar soldiers. Blastaar wished to capture the soldiers for himself to further assert his own position as ruler over Kree territories. Avoiding a fight, Nova appealed to Blastaar's desire to be seen as a legitimate king and ruler and convinced him to acknowledge the jurisdiction of the Nova Corps.\n\nBlastaar and his forces allied with the consortium of galactic rulers who fought off infection from the Cancerverse. Although he regularly antagonized his more heroic and altruistic allies such as Medusa, the Guardians of the Galaxy and Nova. Eventually, he opted to retreat his forces in an act of self-preservation and no longer aid the heroes.\n\nBlastaar made a bid to become King of the Kree, Shi'ar and Inhumans by staging a coup against Medusa shortly after the depletion and exhaustion of her armies following Thanos Imperative. He beat Medusa but before he could truly claim the throne, his mutiny was thwarted by the arrival of the Annihilators. The new superteam made short work of Blastaar and banished him back to the Negative Zone.\n\nBlastaar has superhuman strength and endurance, and is incredibly durable and resistant to injury. Conventional weapons and even ballistic missiles could have no effect on him. His superhuman constitution can withstand extreme variations in temperature and pressure. He is virtually tireless. He can live without nourishment for several weeks and survive in the vacuum of space by inducing himself into a state of hibernation.\n\nHe is capable of self-propelled flight at escape velocity. He can project blasts of highly concussive kinetic force from his hands. He can channel the same concussive force to give him flight by propelling himself through the air like a rocket, and can maintain this thrust almost indefinitely. His energy blasts can temporarily disrupt the molecular integrity of the Eternals.\n\nHe is also highly trained in the arts of warfare of and by his race and has access to advanced technology from his home world such as starships and powerful plasma-based weapons. Most often, however, he only uses his powers without augmentation.\n\n\n\nThe following trade collections contain appearances by Blastaar.\n"}
{"id": "2005028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005028", "title": "1952 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1952 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on 4 September 1952. The result was a victory for Carlos Ibáñez del Campo, who ran as an independent.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates who received the most votes.\n\nAlfonso was the candidate of the Radical Party, and was also supported by the social democratic parties. His government would have become the fourth consecutive Radical administration, since Pedro Aguirre Cerda was elected President.\n\nAllende, a Senator, was the candidate of the Socialist Party, and was running for President for the first time. He had the support of the banned Communist Party. Allende would run three more times, winning in 1970.\n\nFormer President Ibáñez was an independent Senator for Santiago, and was attempting to reach the presidency, once again, by popular vote. He had the support of minor parties, like the Socialist Popular Party and the Agrarian Labor Party, among others.\n\nMatte was a Liberal Party Senator supported by the Liberal and Conservative parties. He was Finance Minister under the administration of Juan Antonio Ríos.\n"}
{"id": "2005029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005029", "title": "1942 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1942 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on February 1, 1942. The result was a victory for Juan Antonio Ríos of the Radical Party, who received 56% of the vote.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates who received the most votes.\n\nIn 1941, due to his rapidly escalating illness, President Pedro Aguirre Cerda appointed his Minister of the Interior, Jerónimo Méndez as vice-president and died soon after, on November 25, 1941. Aguirre Cerda's two natural successors were Juan Antonio Ríos and Gabriel González Videla, both members of his Radical Party, while the right-wing coalition was united by a common candidate, former President Carlos Ibáñez del Campo, who had the support of the Conservative party, Liberal Party, National Socialist Party, Popular Socialist Vanguard and the majority of the independents.\n\nRíos started to campaign early but two days before the internal primaries of his party, Gabriel González Videla (the ambassador to Brazil) returned to Chile to dispute him the nomination. The results were too close to call, so a \"tribunal of honor\" (electoral commission) was constituted, and Juan Antonio Ríos was finally proclaimed the candidate of a left-wing coalition of parties, the Democratic Alliance, which was formed by the Radical Party, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, the Democratic Party and the Workers' Socialist Party.\n"}
{"id": "2005033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005033", "title": "The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged)", "text": "The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged)\n\nThe Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged) (also known as The Compleat Wrks of Wllm Shkspr (Abridged)) is a play written by Adam Long, Daniel Singer, and Jess Winfield. It parodies the plays of William Shakespeare with all of them being performed in comically shortened or merged form by only three actors. Typically, the actors use their real names and play themselves rather than specific characters. The fourth wall is nonexistent in the performance, with the actors speaking directly to the audience during much of the play, and some scenes involve audience participation. The director and stage crew may also be directly involved in the performance and become characters themselves.\n\nThe script contains many humorous footnotes on the text that are often not included in the performance. However, improvisation plays an important role and it is normal for the actors to deviate from the script and have spontaneous conversations about the material with each other or the audience. It is also common for them to make references to pop culture or to talk about local people and places in the area where the play is being performed. As a result, performances differ, even with the same cast.\n\nThe writers, Long, Singer, and Winfield—former founding members of the Reduced Shakespeare Company—first performed at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 1987 and later played at the Criterion Theatre in London, where it ran for nine years. It has become one of the world's most popular shows, playing frequently in a variety of languages. It is notable for holding the world record for the shortest-ever performance of Hamlet, clocking in at 43 seconds, as well as the fastest performance of Hamlet backwards, at 42 seconds.\n\nThe three actors first introduce themselves to the audience, the first actor (Daniel Singer) reminding the audience not to record the show, the second (Jess Winfield) giving a speech about how unappreciated William Shakespeare is and the third (Adam Long) giving a biography of Shakespeare mixed up with a biography of Adolf Hitler.\n\nThey begin with a parody of \"Romeo and Juliet\". Next, they do a parody of \"Titus Andronicus\", portraying it as a cooking show. Following it is \"Othello\", which is done through a rap song. The rest of the first act demonstrates most of the other plays. All the comedies are combined into one convoluted reading (the justification being that they all recycle the same plot devices anyway). All the histories are acted out through an American football game with the British Crown as the football (or as a soccer match in at least one German production or an Australian Rules football game in an Australian production). \"Julius Caesar\" is reduced to his death, followed immediately by a reduction of \"Antony and Cleopatra\", and a reduction of \"Macbeth\" to one duel while explaining all about ketchup and mustard and other elements (witches, Macbeth's downfall, etc.) in poor Scottish accents. There is also a failed attempt at scholarly discussion of the Shakespeare Apocrypha. \n\nAt the end of the act, the characters realise that they forgot to perform \"Coriolanus\" which Adam refuses to do due to the vulgarity of the title, and \"Hamlet\", Shakespeare's greatest work. Adam becomes nervous and petulant about performing such a famous and difficult play, so he runs around the theatre and then out the door with Jess chasing him. Daniel is left alone to improvise before calling for intermission.\n\nAfter the intermission, Jess and Adam return, saving Daniel from having to cover the sonnets by writing them down on a 3x5 card and passing it around the audience. Adam is convinced to continue with the performance. The entire second act is the performance of \"Hamlet\". The audience gets involved during this segment when one audience member is asked to portray Ophelia for the Nunnery Scene. The rest of the audience makes up Ophelia's subconscious, with three sections that each represent her ego, superego, and id. After the portrayal of \"Hamlet\", the actors play it out several times increasing their speed of delivery. They finish by performing it backwards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005043", "title": "1938 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1938 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on 25 October 1938. The result was a narrow victory for Pedro Aguirre Cerda of the Radical Party, who received 50.5% of the vote.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates that received the most votes.\n"}
{"id": "2005044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005044", "title": "Negative Zone", "text": "Negative Zone\n\nThe Negative Zone is a fictional setting, an antimatter universe appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The location is depicted in various publications from Marvel, most frequently in \"Fantastic Four\" and \"Captain Marvel\". Created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, it first appeared in \"Fantastic Four\" #51 (June 1966).\n\nThe Negative Zone in the Marvel Universe is used as a fictional dimension. Essentially, it is a universe parallel to Earth's. The two have many similarities, but a few noteworthy differences include: all matter in the Negative Zone is negatively charged; the Negative Zone is entirely filled with a pressurized, breathable atmosphere; and near the center of the Negative Zone is a deadly vortex of unspeakable power. Since the Negative Zone is largely uninhabited, several would-be conquerors have attempted to bridge the gap to Earth and take over its population. A few notable residents of the Negative Zone include Blastaar, Annihilus, Stygorr and Noktiis.\n\nThe Negative Zone is often visited by the Fantastic Four as Mister Fantastic discovered it, and has mapped portions of it extensively. The \"Age of Apocalypse\" version of Blink also visited it once, which proved that there's only one Negative Zone, as Annihilus remembered the Fantastic Four even though they never existed in the \"Age of Apocalypse\".\n\nFor a number of years, Captain Mar-Vell and Rick Jones were bonded to each other, causing one of them to exist in the Negative Zone while the other would exist in the regular universe. They exchanged places by clasping the special bracelets each wore or automatically after a few hours.\n\nSpider-Man has also visited the Negative Zone, and acquired a costume that allowed him to merge with shadows and become practically invisible. When he was framed by Norman Osborn a few weeks later, he used the costume to become the dark, mysterious Dusk (one of his four new superhero identities during the \"Identity Crisis\" story arc). A few months later after Spider-Man's name was cleared, Cassie St. Commons was given the guise of Dusk and joined the Slingers. Cletus Kasady also visited the Negative Zone, finding an exact replica of the Carnage symbiote there, the original one which he had lost when Venom absorbed it into his own symbiote.\n\nThe earliest origins of the Negative Zone and its culture have not been revealed, but rough estimates place its height of science and art over 1.5 million years ago, nearly coinciding with the rise of the Skrull and Kree races. It is believed that around that time the Negative Zone began \"the Big Crunch\", ceasing expansive progress and contracting to a central nexus. Some of the most powerful and influential races faced destruction and sought to preserve their lives.\n\nOne of the more aggressive races at this time were the Tyannans. The lion-like bipeds explored much of the Negative Zone, and eventually began to seed many of the planets, including Baluur, with their \"spores of life\". However, their final mission went awry.\n\nA debris field had begun forming around Tyanna, which was at the very heart of the Negative Zone. The Big Crunch had begun pulling the universe back towards its center and planets crumbled under the increased pressure. One of the last remaining Tyannan ships careened off a large chunk of rock and crashed on the desolate planet of Arthros. The ship's engines dead and food processors destroyed, the Tyannan captain ordered the release of their life spores. Life slowly began to evolve on the planet, much as it did on Earth.\n\nFarther from the core of the Negative Zone, other cultures thrived. One culture had gone so far as to cover half of their planet with a giant city, and then developed an artificial brain for it. The city, Ootah, even began to develop a sense of self-preservation and drove the inhabitants out of its boundaries, building up greater defenses to prevent them from returning.\n\nFarther still from the core, the world of Kestor also flourished. It was the first recorded world beyond Tyanna that faced obliteration at the hands of the Big Crunch, roughly 10,000 years ago. Unlike Tyanna, whose gravitational force became greater than could sustain life, Kestor's sun was pulled toward the nexus. This caused the planet's several moons to shift their respective orbits and wreak havoc on the planet itself. As 20,000 beings left Kestor in a great space ark, the sun exploded with the fury of a supernova, substantially damaging their ship. All but 500 of the crew died and the navigational systems were destroyed, eliminating all hope of finding a new planet to call home.\n\nOne of the planets the Tyannans spored, Baluur, developed in a more barbarous manner. The inhabitants grew very large and powerful, and even the meek among them were stronger than an ordinary human. While they did progress technologically, their advances were at least partially driven by war. But they apparently began to experience the effects of the Big Crunch and several millennia ago they took their cities underneath the planet's surface. A sole entrance exists and is known only to the Baluurians themselves. They established a quiet monarchy and became very reclusive, only venturing into space on rare occasions.\n\nSentient life eventually developed on Arthros. A lone insect-like creature emerged from the primordial marsh one thousand years ago, and began to reason. A frail creature, he used his superior intellect to avoid larger predators and soon stumbled upon the Tyannan's derelict ship. Inside the craft, he donned a helmet in an attempt to warm himself. The helmet in fact had recordings of all the Tyannan technology and culture, and the creature was able to deftly assimilate all of it. He took the power from discarded life canisters and created a Cosmic Control Rod, capable of granting the wielder great power. Taking the name Annihilus, he set out to not only right those who wronged him, but to ensure that no one should ever harm him again.\n\nWhile Annihilus forcibly took control of his immediate sector of space, a king rose to prominence on Baluur. Blastaar was a ruthless and powerful leader who sought to expand Baluurian domain. The other Baluurians feared him and were eventually able to depose him by sedating him heavily and sending him to what they hoped would be his destruction in the center of the Negative Zone.\n\nWhile searching for a way to travel through sub-space, Reed Richards stumbled upon a gateway to the Negative Zone. He spent a fair amount of time studying it through probes, and determined that it was largely unpopulated. So much so, in fact, that he—and others—used the Negative Zone on several occasions to get rid of difficult enemies, such as the Mad Thinker's android, the Super-Adaptoid, and even Galactus. Reed and the Fantastic Four have since done more detailed explorations of the Zone and no longer use it to dispose of villains.\n\nFor some time, the Norse realm of Asgard was lost in the Negative Zone.\n\nIn the Super-Hero Civil War, a group of heroes led by Iron Man, Mister Fantastic and Yellowjacket have created a massive prison in the Negative Zone (similar to the Vault) to house captured non-registering heroes as they wait for their trials. It is designated Negative Zone Prison Alpha but nicknamed \"Fantasy Island\" by inmates. Tony Stark himself named it \"Project 42\", as it had been the 42nd idea out of a hundred that he, Reed Richards and Hank Pym had created following the Stamford Disaster. There are portals to it planned for every single state so prisoners can be transported there by the different teams in the - including one at Ryker's Island. It is very clean, with sanitation, but extremely heavily guarded, including password-changes every ten minutes. Its most notable former inmates were Iron Fist (posing as Daredevil at the time), Cloak and Dagger, Speedball, Prodigy and Prowler.\n\nIt is also the setting for the final battle of the super hero civil war, as Iron Man lays a trap for Captain America but the Captain retaliates by using his planted mole, Hulkling, to release all the prisoners of 42 who come to his aid. Though in the ensuing battle Cloak manages to teleport all its superhuman detainees out, it remains as a prison for villains such as Lady Deathstrike and Taskmaster. (Taskmaster was later released to become the trainer for new Initiative recruits and Deathstrike seemingly escapes to assist in the Purifiers crusade during the \"Messiah Complex\".) It also holds many of the Sakaaran forces from \"World War Hulk\".\n\nIn the one-shot \"Civil War: The Return\", the Prison's warden was revealed as the first Captain Marvel, apparently back from the dead. Although he was later revealed as a Skrull sleeper agent named Khn'nr, whose conditioning was so strong he kept believing he was the Captain even after he had realized he really was not.\n\nIn the \"Secret Invasion: Fantastic Four\" limited series, the Skrull warrior Lyja (posing as Susan Richards) sends the Baxter Building into the Negative Zone. She reveals herself to Johnny Storm (her former spouse) and attacks him, feeling angry that he had forgotten her. During the course of their battle, Johnny saves Lyja from being hit by a police car, pulled in through the portal. The two reconcile after that, but a Negative Zone creature attacks them. They manage to defeat the creature, but Lyja passes out from her injuries. A bit later, when the \"new\" Fantastic Four fly off to the prison, Franklin and Valeria are grabbed by Negative Zone creatures, but Lyja saves them. Later when Ben, Johnny, Franklin, Val and the Tinkerer are ready to leave the Negative Zone she refuses to leave, because she wants to find out who she is.\n\nAfter the events of Secret Invasion, the inmates of the prison took control of the facility after their correction officers abandoned the prison. Blastaar later overrun the prison during the prelude to the \"War of Kings\" story arc.\n\nThe Negative Zone is used to dispose of Earth-616's Galactus when he is accidentally transferred to the Ultimate Marvel universe due to the temporal distortions caused by the events of \"Age of Ultron\". The heroes of the Ultimate Marvel universe reasoned that Galactus will starve to death in the Negative Zone because it is a universe made of antimatter and Galactus would not have anything to eat there.\n\nThe Negative Zone is later visited by the Sentry, who is struggling to understand his new state of self and find a way to separate himself from the Void. Upon soaking up the negative cosmic rays, the Sentry is able to separated himself from the Void but is left in the powerless form of Bob Reynolds. The Void was then drawn to the Cancerverse realm, where nothing could die, and impersonating and taking on the appearance of the Sentry, the Void became the new leader of its forces. He then led them back to the Negative Zone, forcing longtime enemies Blastaar and Annihilus to team up against them to prevent the Negative Zone kingdoms from being ravaged by the Undying Ones. Lead by the Revengers, an ever-growing army of zombie-esque drones slaughter and infect their way from world to world giving no quarter as they leave destruction in their wake. As their desperate attempt to defend their domain fails, both rulers discover in the process that the Void is planning to conquer the Negative Zone and its denizens before returning to his own universe to spread the Cancerverse's infection even further. Annihilus then crosses into the positive matter universe to seek assistance, only to land right in the lap of Richard Ryder the last Nova, however, the past trauma at the hands of the Cancerverse, caused Ryder to flee, leaving Annihilus at the mercy of his enemies. The Void then attempt to cross over into the positive Universe, but was stopped by Beta Ray Bill and Lockjaw, with Beta Ray Bill forced to sacrifice his magical hammer, Stormbreaker, in the process.\n\nInitially, it was generally believed that getting caught in the gravitational pull of the vortex at the center of the Zone meant certain death. However, some theorized that if one could survive entry into the vortex, one could travel to another dimension. However, this was only a theory until Doctor Doom gambled the lives of the Fantastic Four to prove it. Once inside the so-called Crossroads, individuals flip through a series of other parallel dimensions while progressing through. Coming to a halt seems to stabilize the Crossroads and then allows movement in the universe arrived in.\n\nHowever, it still remains a risky trip for a number of reasons. First and foremost is the expenditure of energy necessary to keep from imploding. On one occasion, it required the use of both Annihilus' Cosmic Control Rod and the Invisible Woman's force field to stave off death. Second, and almost equally important, is the lack of control one has while passing through different dimensions. Even with the precise calculations of Dr. Doom, it required several hops to reach the dimension he sought.\n\nStaying on a straight course to the very heart of the Crossroads leads one to Tyanna. Although it was believed to have been destroyed centuries earlier, the Tyannans' technology proved capable of sustaining them within the center of the vortex. Using their advanced machines, they were able to modify their bodies to exist safely in the immense pressures, but at the cost of being forced to remain hidden within the Crossroads. The Tyannans remain there, content to pursue their scientific interests.\n\nNormally beings enter the Negative Zone through the Distortion Area. This is an invisible sphere of energy that resides in the Negative Zone but is accessible from many parts of Earth. By hitting the field with a precise wavelength of energy, a rift opens between both dimensions connected by the Distortion Area. This area acts as a buffer between the two polar opposite universes and alters a traveler's own polarity so that they may exist in the other dimension without harm.\n\nWhen activated, the Distortion Area appears from the outside as a crackling energy source roughly six feet in circumference. This effect only lasts as long as the field is activated and, once closed, becomes invisible again. Nearby matter is sucked into the near-vacuum of the Distortion Area and \"falls\" for about 50 seconds before emerging on the other side.\n\nThe Distortion Area itself is nothing short of indescribable. Humans cannot begin to accurately fathom or record what transpires within the Distortion Area and travelers' minds try to compensate with a bizarre display of light and color. Combined with the natural turbulence in the area, many find the trip rather nauseating.\n\nLike any other mode of transport, choosing where to enter the Distortion Area in part affects where an individual is deposited on the other side. Reed Richards' former lab in the Baxter Building, for example, deposited someone at the outskirts of the Debris Field near Arthros. A rift opened on Yancy Street, however, dropped a traveler on the planet Tarsuu.\n\nOther methods may be employed to reach the Negative Zone but, while they tend to be more spatially accurate, they are very difficult to come by. Generally, this mode of transport is reserved by extremely powerful entities like Thor, the Supreme Intelligence, Galactus and the Watchers. Captain Mar-Vell's Nega-Bands could also transport the wearer to the Negative Zone but the precise destination was dependent upon the location of the Nega-Band's counterparts worn by Rick Jones.\n\nOne of the rather undocumented side-effects the Negative Zone has on people seems to involve bringing forth what are usually considered negative emotions. At this point, it is difficult to determine the cause of this unusual phenomenon, but a number of dealings with the Negative Zone have given the impression that something inherent within it can lead to emotional distress.\n\nThe severity of this distress can vary greatly. On a few occasions, it has manifested itself as a citywide panic. Other times, it merely caused a single person to temporarily lose their hope. Still other times, it caused several individuals to experience emotionally charged flashbacks, pulled from their subconscious. And, although it could be attributed to his psyche, Annihilus' main motivation is an obsessive fear of death.\n\nNot all inhabitants of the Negative Zone experience anything beyond normal anxieties, but the number of known instances of unusual psychological distress seems rather high. Visitors to the Zone may or may not experience anything emotionally disturbing. While there is no concrete evidence to show the correlation the Negative Zone has with emotional discord, it remains a significant feature of the region.\n\nAs mentioned previously, the Negative Zone was originally thought to be largely uninhabited. Though this is now known to be incorrect, life having arisen on a number of its planets, the Zone is still mostly unoccupied space. Most of the encounters heroes have had with the Negative Zone revolve around Annihilus and/or Blastaar.\n\nCuriously, for as little life as there \"exists\" in the Negative Zone, it is very \"capable\" of supporting life. There, outer space itself is permeated with an oxygen-rich atmosphere, closely approximating Earth's. Consequently, humans can exist peacefully in space without the need for cumbersome pressure suits or oxygen masks.\n\nIt is perhaps an issue of gravitational pull that is one of the biggest hindrances to life in the Negative Zone. While all objects of reasonably sized mass (planets, moons, asteroids, etc.) obviously have their own gravitational pull, it is weak enough to be overcome with minimal effort. Most heroes with flight capabilities can escape a planet's gravitational field with ease, as can any machine with the capacity for flight. Because of this lowered gravity, it is believed that vegetation has difficulty seeding properly, giving life a tenuous foothold at best on any given planet.\n\nMoisture also seems to be an issue in the dearth of life in the Negative Zone. While each planet has hardly been explored in full, many of the ones studied—including those that are inhabited—have shown few, if any, natural water sources. Most planets appear to be very arid, with cultures adapting to the lack of moisture much as was done on Earth's deserts.\n\nBeing a different dimension with different laws of physics, time flows differently in the Negative Zone than it does on Earth. Although a comprehensive analysis has never been completed, preliminary findings suggest that two weeks pass in the Negative Zone for every hour on Earth, making a 336:1 ratio. On a smaller scale, every minute on Earth is a little over five and half hours in the Negative Zone.\n\nIt seems, however, that this ratio changes as one approaches the center of the Negative Zone. Since there have been several instances of pan-dimensional conversations between the two planes, it appears the time ratio is much closer to 1:1 when one is at the nexus of the Negative Zone. It is currently unclear at what rate the time difference increases as one moves away from the vortex or if there is an upper limit to how great the difference between the two universes can become.\n\nThe Negative Zone includes the following planets:\n\n\nIn the \"Blink\" miniseries, it is established that there is in fact only one Negative Zone in the multiverse of Marvel Universe, with exit points to different realities and timelines, as the Blink from the Age of Apocalypse found herself in a Negative Zone that still remembered the Fantastic Four's role in defeating Annihilus despite the fact that the team never existed in her world. This goes along with the Mutant X Universe, where Havok tried to get back from the Mutant X-verse to the main Marvel earth by a detour through the Negative Zone. Additionally both Rikki Barnes and Onslaught traveled from the Pocket Universe of Heroes Reborn to the mainstream Marvel Universe through the Negative Zone. During the Cataclysm event it is again established that there is in fact only one Negative Zone in the multiverse of Marvel Universe, with exit points to different realities and timelines, as the Ultimate Marvel heroes, after a brief trip to Earth-616 to acquire local information on Galactus, eventually manage to send Galactus to the Negative Zone, reasoning that he will eventually starve to death because Negative Zone is made of anti-matter, however, following an incident on Earth 616 where the Eternal known as Ikaris is brainwashed by a Kree device called the God's Whisper, the Eternals retrieve, with help from Aarkus, the comatose Galactus from the Negative Zone, and state that they plan to use the God's Whisper to unleash him upon the Kree when he awakens as revenge for what they did to Ikaris..\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel equivalent of the Negative Zone was originally called the N-Zone. A zone that exists directly below the Ultimate Marvel universe. It is tied to the powers granted to the Fantastic Four and is the homeplace of the Ultimate Fantastic Four villain Nihil. The N-Zone is a universe in the later stages of entropic heat death, with less than a million years of existence left to it. There are few stars still burning, mostly long-lived red dwarf stars, and despite the advanced technology of many races, life barely maintains a toehold on its existence. Space is also apparently foreshortened in this universe, with the Fantastic Four's shuttle \"Awesome\" achieving speeds that would be impossible in our own universe. It has an atmosphere that is lethally acidic to humans and the Ultimate Fantastic Four, with the exception of the Thing, required space suits to live.\n\nLater it was revealed that the N-Zone is one of many other zones, labeled with letters (e.g. the Z-Zone and the Q-Zone) implying that the N is merely a categorization, not a shortening of the word \"negative\" therefore not connected to the Negative Zone. A proper Negative Zone would be introduced in the Ultimate Marvel where The Ultimates confront Reed Richards.\n\nIn the original script for the \"Fantastic Four reboot\" by Jeremy Slater, the Negative Zone was reinvented as a planet of an ancient alien civilization before being destroyed by Galactus. However, after reshoots and edits, the Negative Zone was renamed as Planet Zero, as a planet of a cracked landscape and unstable energy that is the source of the mutations in the Four and Victor von Doom.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005052", "title": "Priscila Uppal", "text": "Priscila Uppal\n\nPriscila Uppal (October 30, 1974 – September 5, 2018) was a Canadian poet, novelist, fiction writer, and playwright.\n\nBorn in Ottawa, Ontario, she graduated from Hillcrest High School in 1993. She earned her Honours Bachelor of Arts (BA Hons.) in 1997 and her Ph.D in 2004 at York University as well as a Master's degree (MA) in English from the University of Toronto.\n\nUppal was a professor in the Department of English at York University in Toronto and taught literature and creative writing.\n\nIn 2007, her book of poetry \"Ontological Necessities\" was shortlisted for the Griffin Poetry Prize. Uppal's poetry collection \"Pretending to Die\" (2001) was shortlisted for the ReLit Award, and her memoir \"Projection: Encounters with My Runaway Mother\" was shortlisted for the Hilary Weston Writers' Trust Prize for Nonfiction in 2013. She served as the first poet-in-residence for the Rogers Cup Tennis Tournament in 2011. She was also the Olympic poet-in-residence at the 2010 Vancouver Winter Games and the 2012 London Summer Olympics. As a result of her role as the poet-in-residence for the London Summer Olympics, she was dubbed \"Canada's coolest poet\" by Time Out London magazine. Uppal also became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada in 2016\n\nUppal died of synovial sarcoma on September 5, 2018.\n\nPoetry\n\nFiction\n\nNon-fiction\n\nAnthologies – as editor\n\nAnthologies – as contributor\n\nPlays\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005060", "title": "Tai Lue language", "text": "Tai Lue language\n\nTai Lue (Tai Lü: , \"kam tai lue\", , Tai Tham spelling: ) or Tai Lɯ, Tai Lü, Thai Lue, Tai Le, Xishuangbanna Dai (; ; , \"phasa thai lue\", ; or ) is a Tai language of the Lu people, spoken by about 700,000 people in Southeast Asia. This includes 280,000 people in China (Yunnan), 200,000 in Burma, 134,000 in Laos, 83,000 in Thailand, and 4,960 in Vietnam. The language is similar to other Tai languages and is closely related to Kham Mueang or Tai Yuan, which is also known as Northern Thai language. In Yunnan, it is spoken in all of Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture, as well as Jiangcheng Hani and Yi Autonomous County in Pu'er City.\n\nIn Vietnam, Tai Lue speakers are officially recognised as the Lự ethnic minority, although in China they are classified as part of the Dai people, along with speakers of the other Tai languages apart from Zhuang.\n\nTai Lue has 21 syllable-initial consonants, 9 syllable finals and six tones (three different tones in checked syllables, six in syllables).\n\nThe initials - and - are palatalized before front vowels (which in the language are , , and ), and become and , respectively. For example, \"hard\" and \"ten\" are pronounced as and respectively. (Some textbooks denote as ).\n\nGenerally, vowels in open syllables (without final) become long whereas ones in closed syllables become short (except and ).\n\nThe table below presents six phonemic tones in unchecked syllables, i.e. closed syllables ending in sonorant sounds such as , and and open syllables.\nThere are six tones for unchecked syllables, although only three are allowed in checked syllables (those ending with -p, -t or -k).\n\nThe table below presents two phonemic tones in checked syllables, i.e. closed syllables ending in a glottal stop and obstruent sounds which are , and .\n\nWord order is usually subject–verb–object; modifiers (e.g. adjectives) follow nouns.\n\nAs in Thai and Lao, Tai Lue has borrowed many Sanskrit and Pali words and affixes. Among the Tai languages in general, Tai Lue has limited intelligibility with Shan and Tai Nua and shares much vocabulary with, the other Southwestern Tai languages. Tai Lue has 95% lexical similarity with Northern Thai (Lanna), 86% with Central Thai, 93% with Shan, and 95% with Khun.\n\nBelow, some Thai Lue words are given with standard Central Thai equivalents for comparison. Thai words are shown on the left and Tai Lue words, written in New Tai Lue script, are shown on the right.\n\nMany words differ from Thai greatly:\n\nSome words differ in tone only:\n\nSome words differ in a single sound and associated tone. In many words, the initial ร () in Thai is ฮ () in Tai Lue, as is also the case in Lao and Tai Yuan:\n\nAspirated consonants in the low-class consonant group(อักษรต่ำ ) become unaspirated:\n\nThough many aspirated consonants often become unaspirated, when an unaspirated consonant is followed by ร () the unaspirated consonant becomes aspirated:\n\nOther differences:\n\nTai Lue is written in three different alphabets. One is Fak Kham script, a variety of Thai script of Sukhothai. The second is Tham script and was reformed in the 1950s, but is still in use and has recently regained government support. The new alphabet is a simplified version of the old script.\n\nAn ancient script, also used in Kengtung, Northern Thailand and Northern Laos centuries ago.\n\nTham script is called \"lao dai wen\" (Old Tai script) in China. Readable by the most people and used in Burma, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam.\n\nNew Tai Lue is a modernization of the Lanna alphabet (also known as Tai Tham script), which is similar to the Thai alphabet, and consists of 42 initial consonant signs (21 high-tone class, 21 low-tone class), seven final consonant signs, 16 vowel signs, two tone letters and one vowel shortening letter (or syllable-final glottal stop). Vowels signs can be placed before or after the syllable initial consonant.\n\nSimilar to the Thai alphabet, the pronunciation of the tone of a syllable depends on the class the initial consonant belongs to, syllable structure and vowel length, and the tone mark.\n\nUnicode range (\"New Tai Lue\"): U+1980 – U+19DF\n\nThe Bajia people (), who number 1,106 individuals in Mengkang Village (), Meng'a Town (), Menghai County, Yunnan, speak a language closely related to Tai Lue. There are 225 Bajia people living in Jingbo Township 景播乡, Menghai County (You 2013:270). The Bajia are also known as the Chinese Dai .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005061", "title": "Watford High Street railway station", "text": "Watford High Street railway station\n\nWatford High Street is a railway station in Watford, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom. It is served by the Watford DC Line on the London Overground network. It is the only station on the line's sole deviation from the West Coast Main Line.\nThe station was opened by the Watford and Rickmansworth Railway (W&RR) on 1 October 1862, with services running from to . In 1912 a branch was opened to . The line came under the ownership of London and North Western Railway (LNWR), which was absorbed into the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) in 1923, following the grouping of Britain's railway companies.\n\nAdditional rail services were introduced to Watford High Street; in 1917 the Underground Electric Railways Company of London extended its Bakerloo line through this station to , and in 1922 the LNWR completed the suburban Camden to Watford Junction New Line, linking Watford High Street to via the Watford DC Line (shared with the Bakerloo line).\n\nAfter nationalisation in 1948, the Watford DC Line was run by British Rail (from 1986 under its Network SouthEast brand). At the height of operation around the 1950s, Watford High Street was served by the Bakerloo line, and by British Rail trains on both the Croxley Green and Rickmansworth branches, a local all-stations service to Euston and another local service to via . Over the years, most of these services were gradually withdrawn. The Rickmansworth branch was a poorly used service and passenger services were terminated by BR in 1952. Croxley Green services continued as Parliamentary trains until the line closed fully in 1996. In 1982 London Transport cut back the Bakerloo line to run only as far north as (reinstating the service as far as in 1984). London Broad Street station was closed in 1986 and trains on the Primrose Hill route were diverted to until 1992, when passenger services on the Primrose Hill line were withdrawn completely. After the withdrawal of the Croxley, Bakerloo and Broad Street routes, the only remaining service running from Watford High Street was British Rail's Watford DC Line to Euston.\n\nFollowing the privatisation of British Rail the franchise for the Watford DC Line was taken over by National Express who ran the line under its Silverlink Metro name. In 2007 the line was brought under the control of Transport for London, who today operate it as part of the London Overground network; this service uses the 750 V DC lines for its all-stations local service with the 4th rail presently redundant except as part of the electrical return circuit.\n\nIn 2011, a project to extend the London Underground's Metropolitan line to Watford Junction was announced. The planned Croxley Rail Link would have diverted the Metropolitan line branch across the town along a reinstated stretch of disused track of the former Watford and Rickmansworth Railway; the link would then have joined the Watford DC Line just south of Watford High Street, and Underground trains would have shared track with London Overground through to Watford Junction. The scheme was cancelled in 2018 due to funding difficulties.\n\nWatford High Street station is located in the Lower High Street in Watford town centre. In the immediate vicinity around the station are a number of retail and civic amenities including the Watford Museum, containing a gallery of fine art and displays of local heritage, and the intu Watford Shopping Centre (also known as the \"Harlequin Centre\"), the largest shopping centre in Hertfordshire, which attracts more than 17 million customers each year. Various other shopping parks are also close to the station, including a large Tesco Extra, Waterfields Shopping Park (containing large stores such as Sports Direct and Next), as well as many stores situated on the High Street.\n\nWatford town centre has many popular bars and clubs, such as PRYZM; the only producing theatre in Hertfordshire, the Watford Palace Theatre; as well as numerous restaurants and cafes, both chain and independent.\n\nTo the east of the railway line is the site of Benskins Brewery, the office building for which is now Watford Museum. The brewery was rail-served by sidings until 1956.\nThe station is situated in a deep cutting covered by a single platform canopy. The roof of the canopy is connected to the concrete sided cutting by ornamental metal trusses.\n\nAll services to this station are operated by London Overground. It is on the Watford DC Line of the network and receives trains every 20 minutes Monday to Saturday daytimes; northbound and southbound. In evenings and on Sundays there is a half-hourly service in each direction.\n\nThe station is served by local Routes 8, 142, 258, 306, 306B, 306C, 398, 602, W19 and W20.\n\nOther services to alternate destinations operate from Watford town centre bus stops, which are a short distance from the station.\n\nIn 2011, a project to extend the London Underground's Metropolitan line to Watford Junction was announced. The planned Croxley Rail Link would have diverted the Metropolitan line branch across the town along a reinstated stretch of disused track of the former Watford and Rickmansworth Railway; the link would then have joined the Watford DC Line just south of Watford High Street, and Underground trains would have shared track with London Overground through to Watford Junction. The scheme was cancelled in 2018 due to funding difficulties.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005064", "title": "Sonnet L'Abbé", "text": "Sonnet L'Abbé\n\nSonnet L'Abbé, is a Canadian poet, editor, professor and critic. As a poet, L'Abbé writes about national identity, race, gender and language.\n\nL'Abbé has a PhD in English Literature from the University of British Columbia, a Master's degree in English literature from the University of Guelph and a BFA in film and video from York University. She has been a script reader and has taught English at universities in South Korea, as well as teaching Creative Writing at the University of Toronto. From 2012 to 2014, she taught creative writing at UBC's Okanagan campus, and currently teaches at Vancouver Island University. In 2015, she was the Edna Staebler Writer In Residence at Wilfrid Laurier University.\n\nAs a critic, she was a regular reviewer of fiction and poetry for \"The Globe and Mail\" and has written scholarly articles on Canadian contemporary poetry. She has also worked as an assistant poetry editor at Canadian Literature, and is an occasional contributor to CBC Radio One and the National Post. L'Abbé was the guest editor of the Best Canadian Poetry 2014 anthology. She is currently on the editorial board of Brick Books.\n\nHer work has appeared in a number of literary journals and several anthologies including \"Force Field: 77 BC Women Poets\", \"Best Canadian Poetry 2009\", \"Best Canadian Poetry 2010\", \"Open Field: 30 Contemporary Canadian Poets\" and \"Red Silk: An Anthology of South Asian Canadian Women Poets\". She has been shortlisted for the 2010 CBC Literary Award for poetry and has won the Bronwen Wallace Memorial Award for most promising writer under 35. In, 2013 she was the Artist-In-Motion for 2017StartsNow!, a series of talks launched by CBC Radio-Canada, Via Rail and Community Foundations of Canada that joined Canadians across the country in a conversation about how to celebrate the Canadian sesquicentennial.\n\nL'Abbé was born in Toronto, Ontario, to Jason L'Abbé, a Franco-Ontarian ceramic artist, and Janet L'Abbé, an artist of Guyanese Dougla descent (South Asian and African mixed descent). Her name, Sonnet, is a combination of parts of her parents' first names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005070", "title": "Al McGuire", "text": "Al McGuire\n\nAlfred James McGuire (September 7, 1928 – January 26, 2001) was an American college basketball coach and broadcaster, the head coach at Marquette University from 1964 to 1977. He won a national championship in his final season at Marquette, and was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1992. He was also well known as a longtime national television basketball broadcaster and for his colorful personality.\n\nMcGuire played three years of basketball at St. John's Prep, Brooklyn, New York (graduated 1947), and went on to star at St. John's University (1947–1951), where he played for four years and captained the 1951 team that posted a mark and finished third in the NIT.\n\nAfter college, McGuire played in the NBA, first with the New York Knicks (1951–53) and then with the Baltimore Bullets (1954). While with the Knicks, he once famously pleaded with his coach for playing time, with this guarantee: \"I can stop Cousy.\" Inserted into the lineup, McGuire proceeded to foul him on his next six trips down the court.\n\nMcGuire began his coaching career as an assistant at Dartmouth College (1955–1957) for head coach Doggie Julian. McGuire coached the freshman team at Dartmouth. One of his players was Dave Gavitt. McGuire then took his first head coaching job at Belmont Abbey College (1957–1964), in Belmont, North Carolina, where he recruited many high school players off the streets of New York.\n\nMcGuire became head coach at Marquette University in Milwaukee in 1964 where he enjoyed success, including the NIT Championship in 1970 and a Final Four appearance in 1974 against the North Carolina State Wolfpack, where McGuire became the first coach ejected from a championship \n\nWith assistant coaches Hank Raymonds (who would succeed him) and Rick Majerus, who became a successful college head coach, McGuire led Marquette to its only NCAA basketball championship in 1977, his final season as a head coach. McGuire's Marquette team, led by Alfred \"Butch\" Lee, Maurice \"Bo\" Ellis and Jerome Whitehead, defeated Dean Smith's North Carolina Tar Heels for the title, two days after Whitehead received a full-court pass and subsequently made a last-second shot, propelling Marquette past UNC Charlotte in the national semifinals. Ranked sixteenth, Marquette had seven losses going into the NCAA tournament, the most losses up to that time for a team that would win the NCAA Championship. The thrilling weekend in Atlanta's Omni Coliseum provided a happy sendoff.\n\nWhile at Marquette, McGuire founded \"Al's Run,\" a charity event for the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin. The race celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2017.\n\nOn December 17, 1976, McGuire stunned fans by announcing that he would retire as coach after the end of the current season, to become vice chairman of Medalist Industries, effective May 1, 1977; he had served on its board of directors of the sporting goods firm for six years. McGuire was an executive with the company less than a year, resigning on March 20, 1978.\n\nAfter coaching, McGuire became a popular commentator for NBC Sports and CBS Sports. McGuire's on-air banter with colleague Billy Packer helped increase the popularity of college basketball across the United States. McGuire was courtside for the landmark 1979 championship game between Indiana State and Michigan State that pitted Larry Bird and Magic Johnson, which is remembered as a game that vastly enhanced the appeal of college basketball. Reflecting on the event ten years later, McGuire said that the 1979 title game in Salt Lake City \"put college basketball on its afterburner.\" That national championship game remains the highest-rated NCAA Final broadcast.\n\nAfter a long bout with leukemia, McGuire died at age 72 in 2001 in Brookfield, Wisconsin.\n\nThe Al McGuire Center, which includes a statue in his honor, opened on the Marquette campus in 2004.\n\nHe was elected to the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame in 1993.\n\nMcGuire's brother Dick (Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame inductee 1993) was also a prominent figure in basketball, having starred at St. John's and then with the New York Knicks of the NBA. Dick and Al both played for the Knicks. They are the only pair of brothers, and one of only two sibling pairs (the other being Cheryl and Reggie Miller), inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. Others in the Hall of Fame Class of '92 included Lou Carnesecca, Phil Woolpert, Jack Ramsay, Connie Hawkins, Bob Lanier, Sergei Belov, Nera D. White and Lusia Harris Steward. McGuire is not related to the late North Carolina and South Carolina coach Frank McGuire. Al and Frank coached against each other when Frank was head man at South Carolina. Al played for Frank at St. John's. Frank McGuire has been considered Al's coaching mentor.\n\nMcGuire was survived by his wife, Patricia, three children, sons Allie (who played for his father at Marquette) and Rob and daughter Noreen, and six grandchildren.\n\nAl McGuire's former television broadcast partner and friend, Dick Enberg, penned a one-man theatrical play entitled \"Coach\" portrayed by actor Cotter Smith.\n\nIt debuted at Marquette University's Helfaer Theater in 2005, and returned there by popular demand in 2006. The play was then presented at the Alliance Theatre in Atlanta during the 2007 Final Four Championship, at Hofstra University in February 2008, and at the North Coast Repertory in San Diego County in April 2008. It returned to North Coast Rep by popular demand in August 2008, and subsequently was seen at Central Michigan University, Dick Enberg's alma mater on October 10, 2008. A benefit performance for the San Diego Chargers was presented on November 12, 2008. \nFrom January - June, 2017, the play entitled \"McGuire\" was presented by the Milwaukee Repertory Theater, starring Tony Award winner Anthony Crivello. That run broke all box office records for the space, playing to 'sold-out' houses in the 150 seat Stackner Cabaret. Crivello received critical praise for his work in the show, and won 2017 Wisconsin Footlights Award for \"Outstanding Performance by a Leading Actor in a Play.\"\n\nA five-minute presentation of the show was presented at the 2017 Wisconsin Sports Award on May 20, 2017, at the University Of Wisconsin Field House.\nThe audience included All-Pro Green Bay Packers QB Aaron Rodgers, All-Pro Green Bay Packers LT David Bahktieri and noted sports figures including Green Bay Packers players Jason Spriggs, Kyle Murphy, former Packer player Mark Tauscher, Milwaukee Brewers player Jonathan Villar, Milwaukee Bucks player Jabari Parker, UW Head Women's Basketball Coach Jonathan Tsipis, former University of Wisconsin Milwaukee Head Men's Basketball Coach and current Butler Head coach Lavall Jordan, Marquette University Head Men's Basketball Coach Steve Wojceichowski, UW Head Men's Basketball Coach Greg Gard, executives and broadcasters Bill \"Rock\" Schroeder, Steve \"The Homer\" True, Tim Van Vooren from ESPN, FOX Sports Wisconsin, Major League Baseball, Good Karma Broadcasting founder Milwaukee's ESPN Radio owner Craig Karmazin, top male and female athletes from Wisconsin, Marquette University, UW Green Bay, UW Milwaukee, Marquette University Athletic Director Bill Scholl, Wisconsin Women's Volleyball HOF 2017 Athlete Of The Year Lauren Carlini, Wisconsin Men's Basketball players including Zack Showalter, Athletic Director/ NCAA HOF Former Head Football Coach Barry Alvarez.\n\nFour books have been written about McGuire's life. McGuire's biography \"You Can Call Me Al: The Colorful Journey of College Basketball's Original Flower Child, Al McGuire,\" written by Chicago area author and journalist Joseph Declan Moran with McGuire's cooperation, was first published in March 1999 by Prairie Oak Press (Madison, WI); \"I Remember Al McGuire: Personal Memories and Testimonials to College Basketball's Wittiest Coach and Commentator (as told by the people who knew him),\" written by Mike Towle, was published in December 2001 by Cumberland House Publishing; \"Cracked Sidewalks and French Pastry: The Wit and Wisdom of Al McGuire,\" written by Tom Kertscher, was published by University of Wisconsin Press in November 2002; \"Al McGuire: The Colorful Warrior,\" written by Roger Jaynes, was published by Sports Publishing LLC in July 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005071", "title": "Podocarpus nubigenus", "text": "Podocarpus nubigenus\n\nPodocarpus nubigenus (also known as Podocarpus nubigena) is a species of podocarp, endemic to the Valdivian temperate rain forests of southern Chile and adjacent southwestern Argentina. It is the southernmost podocarp in the world, It grows from 38° to Ultima Esperanza (53° South latitude), It grows in wet and swampy soils. It can settle clear grounds, with a faster growth than the other Chilean podocarpaceae.\n\nIt is a medium to large tree, growing to around , exceptionally to . The bark peels off in papery flakes, with a purplish to golden brown hue. The sharp, green needle-like leaves are stiff and leathery, 2 cm long. The cones are highly modified with 2-4 fused, fleshy berry-like juicy scales, bright red when mature, bearing one (rarely two) rounded seeds at the apex of the scales.\n\nIn a classic example species-pair of the Antarctic flora, it is very closely related to \"Podocarpus totara\" from New Zealand, to the extent that if planted together, they are very difficult to distinguish. The best distinction is the slightly brighter green tone of the leaves, compared to the more greyish-green of \"P. totara\".\n\nThe wood is hard and straight grained and very resistant to rot, it is yellow with reddish marks, semi-heavy, semi-hard and resistant to decay. but due to scarcity is little used.\n\n\"Podocarpus nubigenus\" is occasionally grown as an ornamental tree in the western British Isles and the Pacific Northwest of North America, where it receives the cool summers and high rainfall it requires for successful growth. This tree is tolerant to about . It does not have any common English name; cloud podocarp (a translation of the scientific name); male maniu (a literal translation from the most common name in Chile), Chilean podocarp and Chilean totara have been suggested, but are little used. Mapuche Native American and Latin American Spanish names include and mañio macho or mañíu macho and huililahuán (). In southern Chile, it is also known as mañío de hojas punzantes (which is translated as \"prickly-leaved maniu\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005074", "title": "Jan Eliasson", "text": "Jan Eliasson\n\nJan Kenneth Eliasson (born 17 September 1940) is a Swedish diplomat who was Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations from July 2012 to December 2016. A member of the Swedish Social Democratic Party, Eliasson served as Minister for Foreign Affairs from 24 April to 6 October 2006. Eliasson was appointed as Governing Board Chair of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in April 2017 and assumed his role as of 1 June 2017.\n\nJan Eliasson was born in a working-class family in Gothenburg in Sweden. He was an AFS exchange student in Indiana, United States, from 1957 to 1958 and was commissioned a naval officer in the reserve after training at the Royal Swedish Naval Academy in 1962. In 1965 he earned a master's degree in economics from the School of Business, Economics and Law at the University of Gothenburg where he was also a president of the local AIESEC committee. He also holds honorary degrees from American University (1994), University of Gothenburg (2001) and Uppsala University (2005).\n\nEliasson has authored and co-authored numerous books and articles and is a frequent lecturer on foreign policy and diplomacy. Since 1988 he has been a visiting lecturer on mediation, conflict resolution and UN reform at Uppsala University.\n\nEliasson started his diplomatic career in 1965, when he was employed at the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs. From 1982 to 1983 he served as Diplomatic Advisor to the Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme, and from 1983 to 1987 as Director General for Political Affairs in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1986, Eliasson was part of the U.N. mission, mediating in the Iran–Iraq War. From 1988 to 1992 he served as Sweden's Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York, where he also served as the Secretary-General's Personal Representative on Iran/Iraq.\n\nIn 1991, Eliasson was chairman of the U.N. General Assembly's working group on emergency relief and Vice President of the U.N. Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) from 1991 to 1992. In 1992 he was appointed as the first U.N. Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs. He was involved in operations in Somalia, Sudan, Mozambique and the Balkans. He also took initiatives on issues such as land mines, prevention and humanitarian action.\n\nIn 1993–94 Eliasson served as mediator in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict for the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).\n\nFrom 1994 to 1999, Eliasson served as Swedish State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. From 2000 to 2005 he served as Sweden's Ambassador to Washington, D.C., United States. On 13 June 2005 he was unanimously elected President of the United Nations General Assembly, for its sixtieth session. He served as President from 13 September 2005 to 11 September 2006.\n\nFrom 24 April 2006 to 6 October 2006 he also served as Swedish Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Social Democratic cabinet of Göran Persson. Following the 2006 Swedish general election when his party lost the election, he announced that he will teach at Uppsala University.\nEliasson condemned the 2006 Lebanon War: \"The military offensive of Israel is an extremely dangerous escalation of the situation in the region\". He also condemned the attacks of Hezbollah.\n\nIn December 2006, then U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan announced Eliasson as Special Envoy to Darfur, Sudan. He left this mission in June 2008.\n\nIn March 2009, Eliasson gave a lecture entitled \"Armed Conflict: The Cost to Civilians\" at the University of San Diego's Joan B. Kroc Institute for Peace & Justice Distinguished Lecture Series.\n\nEliasson is an Eminent Member of the Sergio Vieira de Mello Foundation and he currently sits on the advisory board of the Alliance for Peacebuilding. Eliasson is Chair of WaterAid Sweden. Since 2010 he serves in the UN Secretary-General's Advocates Group for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Eliasson is a former Board member of DARA.\n\nOn 2 March 2012, Jan Eliasson was appointed Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. He took office as Deputy Secretary-General on 1 July 2012.\nHe always carries in his pocket a print of the UN charter.\n\nOn 23 October 2017, the Tallberg Foundation announced that its Global Leadership Prize will henceforth be named after Jan Eliasson.\n\nOn 27 April 2017, the Swedish Government appointed Jan Eliasson as Chair of the SIPRI Governing Board. Eliasson has formally assumed the position as of 1 June 2017.\n\nEliasson is married to Kerstin Eliasson, former Swedish State Secretary for Education and Science. They have three children: Anna, Emilie and Johan. He is a GAIS supporter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005080", "title": "Dipsea Race", "text": "Dipsea Race\n\nThe Dipsea Race is a trail running event in California, United States. It is the oldest cross-country trail running event and one of the oldest foot races of any kind—in the United States. The 7.5 mile (12 km) long Dipsea Race has been held annually almost every year since November 19, 1905, starting in Mill Valley, and finishing at Stinson Beach, in Marin County. Since 1983, the race has been held on the second Sunday in June. The Dipsea celebrated its 109th running on Sunday, June 9, 2019. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Race committee announced that the 2020 Dipsea Race would be cancelled for the first time since 1945. \n\nIn 1904, the Dipsea Inn opened on a sandspit north of Willow Camp (later Stinson Beach), built in anticipation of tourists arriving on proposed rail extensions. After opening, it was visited by a group of Olympic Club members , including, Charles Boas, and Alfons Coney, who had a cabin near Muir Woods. Someone proposed racing from Mill Valley to the Inn. Coney and Boas, took up the challenge, setting off on a day in 1904, with bets placed by Club members (Fastest from the train depot at Lyton Square in Mill Valley, to the newly opened Dipsea Inn). Boas won.\n\nOn on a rainy November 19, 1905, the first Dipsea Race was held, on a 7.4-mile course, with 110 runners, by members of the San Francisco Olympic Club, from the Mill Valley train depot to the then-new Dipsea Inn, on a sand spit now called Seadrift, in the Bolinas Lagoon between Stinson Beach and Bolinas, taking place annually, except 1932-1933, 1942-1945, and 2020. A “Women’s Dipsea Hike” (called a \"hike\" to avoid an AAU ban on women’s long-distance races.) took place 1918-1922. In 1907, the final run on the sand was eliminated. In 1983, the race date was changed to the second Sunday in June.\n\nThe Dipsea is well known for its scenic course and challenging trails. The race starts on Throckmorton Avenue in Mill Valley, near Miller Avenue, in front of the old train depot (now a bookstore). After traversing a few blocks in Mill Valley's downtown, runners climb 688 stairs (now 700 stairs, after the renovation of the middle section in Nov 2017) leading up the side of Mount Tamalpais, and then pass through Muir Woods National Monument, Mount Tamalpais State Park, and the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. The Dipsea Trail is the most direct route connecting the town of Mill Valley, located near the northwestern shores of Richardson Bay, with the village of Stinson Beach, situated along the Pacific coast. Stinson Beach is a popular tourist destination, located about a 30-minute drive north of San Francisco on Highway 1, via the Golden Gate Bridge. The ascent over the southern shoulder of Mount Tam reaches its apex around the top of Cardiac Hill, about 4.5 miles into the race.\n\nAmong the challenges facing participants are the Dipsea Trail's uneven footing, single-track footpaths, and almost invariably steep terrain, featuring about 2,200-foot (671 m) elevation gain and loss over the course. The uniqueness of the Dipsea Race course owes largely to the opportunity for competitors to choose from any of several alternate routes on diverging and converging trails, adding a competitive premium for strategy, experience, and familiarity with the course.\n\nThe Dipsea's handicapping system often produces younger or older winners, which adds to the unusual intrigue and suspense created by the race's permissible shortcuts, like 'Suicide' and 'The Swoop'. Most participants, with the exception of 'scratch' runners, are given a head start based on their age and gender. The oldest and youngest runners are given up to a 25-minute advantage over the fastest competitors, making it possible for virtually any age group to produce a race winner; previous winners include children as young as 8, and men and women as old as 72.\n\nBecause of the nature of the course, the field of competitors is limited to 1,500. It is a popular race, and thousands of people apply for entry every year. This makes it difficult for people, particularly those who have never run it before, to get accepted into the race.\n\nAs of June 2019, the defending champion is 62-year-old Brian Pilcher, in his fourth Dipsea victory. The previous ten champions are Chris Lundy (2018, 2017), Diana Fitzpatrick (2013, 2014), Hans Schmid (2012), Jamie Rivers (2007, 2011), Reilly Johnson (age 8, 2010), Roy Rivers (2008), Melody-Anne Schultz (1999, 2003, 2006) Russ Kiernan (1998, 2002, 2005), Shirley Matson (2004, 2001, 2000, 1993) and Sal Vasquez (1982–1985, 1990, 1994, 1997).\n\nJack Kirk, known as the 'Dipsea Demon', holds the record of most consecutive competitions in the Dipsea, having finished 67 consecutive Dipseas from 1930 until 2002. (There was no official Dipsea Race in 1932 or 1933, due to economic reasons, nor in 1942–1945 due to World War II.) Kirk finished his last complete race in 2002. He started but did not finish in 2003, but did reach the highest elevation, at the top of \"Cardiac Hill,\" at the age of 96. He is the oldest person to have competed in the race. Kirk died on January 29, 2007, at age 100. Jack's story was documented in the 2004 film \"The Dipsea Demon\"\n\nTwo other races use the same course route: the Double Dipsea, held in late June, and the Quad Dipsea, an ultramarathon, which takes place in late November. Despite the use of the Dipsea name, these two races are not officially affiliated with the Dipsea Race.\n\nThe Double Dipsea is a 13.7-mile (22 km) run usually held on the Saturday thirteen days after the Dipsea. Now organized by the Dolphin South End Running Club, San Francisco icon Walt Stack put together the first Double Dipsea race in 1970.\n\nThe Quad Dipsea is a 28.4-mile (45.7 km) trail ultra, held annually in November on the Saturday following Thanksgiving. The Quad starts and finishes in Mill Valley, following the Dipsea Trail westward to Stinson Beach, out-and-back twice over the same course as the Dipsea Race and the Double Dipsea. The race has 9,276 feet (2,827 m) of both climb and descent. First held in 1983 with only 8 runners, the race is now limited to about 250 runners.\n\nThe 1986 movie \"On the Edge\", without using the name \"Dipsea\", revolves around a race that is unmistakably the Dipsea Race. It stars Bruce Dern as a runner obsessed with the race.\n\nIt is often described as the race where you are \"either the hunter or the hunted\" where mental toughness is required to overcome not only the 700 steps, the drop into Muir Woods, the Suicide shortcut, and Dynamite and Cardiac hills, but also the handicapped times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005081", "title": "Bart Simpson's Escape from Camp Deadly", "text": "Bart Simpson's Escape from Camp Deadly\n\nBart Simpson's Escape from Camp Deadly is a platform video game for the Game Boy. Developed by Imagineering, it was published by Acclaim in North America and Europe in 1991. The game was released in Japan in 1993. In \"Bart Simpson's Escape from Camp Deadly\", the player controls Bart from the television series \"The Simpsons\" as he escapes from an unpleasant summer camp run by ruthless counselors. The plot is similar to that of \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Kamp Krusty\". Critics gave the game mixed to negative reviews.\n\nBart and Lisa go to spend the summer at a camp, which proves to be the dangerous \"Camp Deadly\" run by Mr. Burns's nephew, Ironfist Burns. His intentions are to make sure that the children suffer and have as little fun as possible. In the first stage of the game, Bart and the other children play capture the flag in a forest, as part of the camp's morning activity. Bart is harassed by camp counselors and bullies Blindside Bill and Rebound Rodney, and must make his way through nests of angry bees and other obstacles. The second stage takes place during lunch break at the mess hall, where the counselors throw knives and forks at Bart.\n\nAnother game of capture the flag follows in the next stage as the afternoon activity. While playing, Bart must avoid counselors, bullies, killer hornets and traps set out for the escaped madman Mort. The fourth stage is dinner break and is the same as the lunch break stage. Later that day, Bart and Lisa decide to escape from Camp Deadly, both because it is too dangerous and because they cannot stand it anymore. However, Ironfist Burns overhears their plans. At night, in the next stage, they escape by climbing to the other side of a mountain called Mount Deadly. The game's final stage takes place in a forest on the other side. Partway through, Lisa is kidnapped, and Bart later finds her at a power station with Ironfist Burns. Bart defeats him and frees Lisa. Together, they find and flip a switch at the station that shuts off the power at Camp Deadly and puts an end to their stay there.\n\n\"Bart Simpson's Escape from Camp Deadly\" is a side-scrolling 2D platform game. It is single-player-only, and the player controls Bart. Lisa's role in the stages is giving Bart boomerangs to use against the various enemies. His default weapon is spit wads, and in the cafeteria stages, the barely edible food offered at the camp.\n\nThe game was developed by Imagineering and published by Acclaim. It was released in 1991 in North America and Europe for the hand-held console Game Boy. The game was released in Japan on February 26, 1993. It was the first \"Simpsons\" game to be released on a portable console. The plot of \"Bart Simpson's Escape from Camp Deadly\" bears a strong similarity to the \"Simpsons\" episode \"Kamp Krusty\" in the sense that they both revolve around Bart and Lisa staying at an evil summer camp. However, that episode did not air until 1992, a year after the game was released.\n\n\"Bart Simpson's Escape from Camp Deadly\" has received mixed to negative reviews. \"Nintendo Power\" gave it a 3.4/5 rating in 1991. UGO Networks gave the game a negative review, commenting that \"this uninspired train wreck of a Game Boy title fails on nearly every level, but most of all simply because it's a snore-fest. It's your basic side-scrolling platformer with little to no connection to the source material and lasts only about few hours at best. During the game you come across bullies, camp counselors and even a few wild animals, battling them with spitballs, a boomerang and, in the lunchroom level, food. This one is for completists only.\" Matt Williamson of the \"Rocky Mountain News\" gave the game a C+ grade and commented that \"\"Escape from Camp Deadly\" tries too hard to be a Nintendo game. It's hard, I know, to try to make game graphics more primitive, but please, guys, the more complex you make the graphics, the more confusing a game gets!\" However, the Channel 4 video game programme GamesMaster gave the game an 89% rating.\n\nIn 2009, 1UP.com editor Bob Mackey reviewed the game in 1UP's official Retro Gaming Blog. He wrote: \"\"Camp Deadly\" drops the limited adventure elements of \"\" in exchange for some much simpler platforming with vastly improved controls [...]. The simple jumping and shooting is nothing to write home about, but \"Camp Deadly\" would have at least been a semi-competent early Game Boy game if not for the interminable waves of enemies it constantly throws at you. Here we see a common problem with Game Boy titles: the developers were clearly designing \"Camp Deadly\" with a big-screen mindset. Enemies teleport in from the edge of the screen and, given how little space there is to actually maneuver, you sometimes have less than a second to react.\"\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2005086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005086", "title": "Lobdell", "text": "Lobdell\n\nLobdell may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2005100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005100", "title": "The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Space Mutants", "text": "The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Space Mutants\n\nThe Simpsons: Bart vs. the Space Mutants is a platform video game, the first based on the animated television series \"The Simpsons\". It was released in 1991 for the Nintendo Entertainment System, Amiga, Amstrad CPC, Atari ST, Commodore 64, and ZX Spectrum and in 1992 for Sega Genesis, Sega Master System and Sega Game Gear. It was published by Acclaim Entertainment and Ocean Software, and developed by Imagineering and Arc Developments. In the game, the player controls Bart Simpson through five levels as he tries to ruin the aliens' plan to take over the world. Video game critics have given \"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" mixed reviews, with criticism directed at the difficulty of the game, partly caused by restricted controls.\n\n\"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" is a 2D side-scrolling platformer. In the single-player game, Bart Simpson is the only one who knows of the aliens' secret plan (his X-ray sunglasses allow him to identify aliens in human form, similar to the sunglasses from the 1988 film \"They Live\") and he has to stop them from collecting the items they need to build their \"ultimate weapon\" to take over the world. There are five levels, in which Bart must collect or destroy a certain number of these items (purple objects in the first level, hats in the second, balloons in the third, exit signs in the fourth, and nuclear rods in the fifth). If Bart loses a life he says \"Eat my shorts!\" Another objective of \"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" is to help Bart convince the other members of the Simpson family about the aliens' existence so that they will help him during the levels.\n\nIn order to get to some of the items and progress through the game, Bart must use equipment such as rockets and cherry bombs, which are bought with coins that can be collected by getting rid of aliens. Bart is controlled on foot and on a skateboard. To get rid of aliens, which are disguised as real humans, he needs to jump on their heads, although some are just regular humans. The game increases in difficulty with each level, and Bart meets up with a boss at the end of the first four. The levels uses elements of \"The Simpsons\" and some of the television humor appears in the game: for example, in the first level Bart can make a prank call to the bartender Moe in order for him to run outside so that the player can spray paint his purple apron (an example of an item that the aliens need) into a red color that the aliens do not want. The game includes some minigames.\n\n\"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" is the first video game based on the animated television series \"The Simpsons\", and includes the theme song from the show. The game was designed by Garry Kitchen, who previously developed \"Keystone Kapers\" and \"Pressure Cooker\" for Activision. It was published in 1991 by Acclaim for the Nintendo Entertainment System and by Ocean Software for the Atari ST, Amiga, ZX Spectrum, Commodore 64 and Amstrad CPC. The game was published in 1992 for Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega Master System, and the hand-held Game Gear console under Acclaim's Flying Edge label. A portable LCD toy of the game was also published by Acclaim in 1991. Imagineering developed \"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" for the Nintendo Entertainment System, Atari ST, and Game Gear, while Arc Developments developed the game for the ZX Spectrum, Commodore 64, and Genesis.\n\nWhile the game was a best-seller according to the magazine \"Hispanic Engineer & Information Technology\", reviews of \"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" have been mixed. \n\nMany critics have described the game as difficult. An author for the Italian newspaper \"la Repubblica\" said the levels are not easy, and the Swedish edition of \"Sega Force\" described the game as both difficult and boring. \"Nintendo Power\" (which rated the NES game 66/100) wrote: \"Bart Simpson has finally made it to the NES from Acclaim. His adventure, though, is anything but a game for underachievers. This game is very challenging and could be frustratingly so to some players. The tasks that you must perform to complete the adventure require patience and skill.\"\n\nThe NES version of \"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" received a B rating from Lou Kesten of \"Entertainment Weekly\", who noted that \"the biggest drawback of this game is its brutally difficult opening section. However, what makes it challenging are clever strategic puzzles rather than thumb-bruising acrobatics. \"Bart\" tests reflexes and imagination in a way all too rarely seen in video games.\"\n\nJames Leach of \"Your Sinclair\" gave the ZX Spectrum game a 92/100 rating, writing that \"I'm really into this game. As far as I can see, it's got everything it should have. It's fast, it's easy in places and dead wicked in others and it's got a massive amount of variety. What more could you want? ... The graphics are very cartoony, as you'd expect, and there's pots of colour.\" Leach also noted that the idea of including minigames in \"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" \"is pretty inspired, and makes the game even more fun.\" A reviewer for \"Crash\" also gave the ZX Spectrum version a positive review, with a 91/100 rating. He praised the variety and gameplay of the game, and noted that \"while it may sound pretty basic [...] it’s when you start discovering things, making use of objects, finding hidden treasures that it really comes alive. And achieving an objective is satisfying because the route to completion can be pretty tough (especially some of the platform elements).\" The reviewer also noted that \"if you’re a \"Simpsons\" fan the game’s incredibly appealing, the graphics all reflect Matt Groening’s cartoon very well. And how much of a fan you are dictates how much you’re really going to enjoy this [game]. Non-fans can still get loads of entertainment, but some parts may be frustrating if you’re not into the characters.\"\n\nIn 2009, 1UP.com editor Bob Mackey reviewed the NES game in 1UP.com's official Retro Gaming Blog. Although he liked the first level for \"mixing an impressive amount of references from the show with gameplay that has a pinch of point-and-click adventure in\", he expressed his dislike for the other levels: \"Unfortunately, either due to lack of ideas or lack of time (most likely the latter), the rest of \"Bart vs. the Space Mutants\" doesn't quite live up to the promise or ambition of the first level; the remaining four stages devolve into a frustrating and generic exercise in platforming that lacks all of the little references that made the beginning of the game somewhat authentic.\" Mackey described the game's controls as \"terrible\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2005101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005101", "title": "I've Heard the Mermaids Singing", "text": "I've Heard the Mermaids Singing\n\nI've Heard the Mermaids Singing is a 1987 comedy-drama film directed by Patricia Rozema and starring Sheila McCarthy, Paule Baillargeon, and Ann-Marie MacDonald. It was the first English-language Canadian feature film to win an award at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nThe film stars Sheila McCarthy as Polly, a worker for a temporary secretarial agency. Polly serves as the narrator for the film, and there are frequent sequences portraying her whimsical fantasies. Polly lives alone, seems to have no friends and enjoys solitary bicycle rides to undertake her hobby of photography. Despite her clumsiness, lack of education, social awkwardness and inclination to take others' statements literally, all of which have resulted in scarce employment opportunities, Polly is placed as a secretary in a private art gallery owned by Gabrielle (Paule Baillargeon).\n\nAnn-Marie MacDonald plays Mary, who is Gabrielle's former young lover, and also a painter. Mary returns after an absence, and she and Gabrielle rekindle their former relationship despite Gabrielle's misgivings that she is too old and Mary too young. Polly, who's fallen a little bit in love with Gabrielle, is inspired to submit some of her own photographs anonymously to the gallery. She is crushed when Gabrielle dismisses her photos out of hand and calls them \"simpleminded.\" Polly temporarily quits the gallery, and goes into a depression. She returns to the gallery, and revives a little when Mary notices one of her photos.\n\nAll the while, Mary and Gabrielle have been perpetrating a fraud. Gabrielle has been passing off Mary's work as her own. When Polly finds out, she becomes livid and tosses a cup of tea at Gabrielle. Believing she has done something unforgivable, Polly retreats to her flat in anguish.\n\nMary and Gabrielle later visit Polly at her flat, and realize that the discarded photographs were by Polly. As the film ends, Gabrielle and Mary look at more of Polly's photographs and in a short fantasy sequence the three are transported together to an idyllic wooded glen, a metaphor for the beautiful world that supposedly plain and unnoticed people like Polly inhabit.\n\n\nProducers Rozema and Alexandra Raffé had never directed or produced a feature film prior to their work on \"Mermaids\", although they worked together on a previous short film.\n\nRozema was working as an assistant producer on \"The Journal\", a Canadian Broadcasting Corporation current affairs television show, when she started to write film scripts in 1983. Her earliest works were all rejected by funding agencies. During this time period, she also took a five-week class on 16 mm film production at Ryerson University in Toronto.\n\nIn 1985, she got financial backing for her first short film, \"Passion: A Letter in 16 mm\", which was released later in 1985. Although \"Passions\" won a Silver Plaque at the 1985 Chicago International Film Festival, it also received a very harsh review in \"The Globe and Mail\". The negative criticism of \"Passion\" and the personal rejection felt by Rozema compelled her to make \"Mermaids\" with its strong anti-authority motif \"which examines the merciless negative judgments of the Toronto elitist high art milieu\".\n\nRozema began writing \"Mermaids\" while working as a third assistant director on David Cronenberg's film \"The Fly\". The \"Mermaids\" script began with the creation of the lead character Polly. Rozema circulated the first draft to friends in the Toronto arts community, including actress and writer Ann-Marie MacDonald who was later cast in the film as the character Mary Joseph. Through the writing process, the film's working title changed from \"Polly\" to \"Polly's Progress\" to \"Polly's Interior Mind\". When the script was submitted for grant funding in June 1986, the title was \"Oh, the Things I've Seen\".\n\nThe final version of the film's title is taken from the poem \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\" by T. S. Eliot. It was the second film playing on the film festival circuit in 1987 that had its title taken from the same Eliot poem, following \"Eat the Peach\" (1986).\n\n\"Mermaids\" was originally conceived as an hour-long television film, but it timed out at 65 minutes. Rather than cut the script, Rozema was advised by Debbie Nightingale from the then-new Ontario Film Development Corporation to expand the script by at least 15 minutes so it could be eligible for OFDC feature film funds.\n\nRozema and Raffé approached several funding agencies for financial backing for \"Mermaids\". The first to grant them funds was the Ontario Film Development Corporation, due primarily to the steady support of Nightingale. The producers knew they also needed support from Telefilm Canada in order for the project to come to fruition, but at the time Telefilm had a reputation for being \"philosophically averse to low-budget, auteur-driven films\". The Telefilm administrator at the time, Peter Pearson, reportedly stomped out of a meeting declaring that Telefilm \"should not be financing these kind of minimalist, student films\". After many weeks of discussions, the agency finally agreed to fund the film after Rozema and Raffé brought on experienced film producer Don Haig in the role of executive producer who worked on the film for a modest fee of CAD$7,000. Also important to Telefilm's eventual funding was a contract with film distribution company Cinephile, which agreed to a CAD$5,000 guarantee, representing the absolute minimum required by the funding agency. The final agreements with Telefilm were not completed until Fall 1986, by which time the filming was already completed. In the interim, producer Raffé had taken a bank overdraft of $25,000 to complete the shooting and to help cover her and Rozema's living expenses.\n\nThe final funding sources for the film were:\n\nThe film's budget details vary by source. In her book about the film, scholar Julia Mendenhall wrote that the film had a budget of CAD$362,000; one article in the \"Toronto Star\" said the budget was CAD$350,000 plus another $40K to blow up the negative from 16 mm to 35 mm; a different \"Star\" article stated the budget was CAD$325,000. American newspapers also reported different budgets for the film. A \"San Francisco Chronicle\" article says the budget was US$273,000 which translated into CAD$350,000; an article in a Fort Lauderdale, Florida newspaper says the budget was US$262,000, which was the same amount cited in a \"New York Times\" film review. The newspaper \"USA Today\" reported the budget as less than US$300,000. All sources agreed that the film qualified as low-budget.\n\nRozema says she and Raffé worked in pre-production full time between February 1986 and September 23, 1986. For their financing applications, the producers named their company Vos Productions. Vos means \"fox\" in Dutch and was Rozema's mother's maiden name.\n\nIndependent casting director Maria Armstrong was hired by Rozema with a casting budget of only CAD$500 to help identify the actors for \"Mermaids\". Armstrong submitted a list of six or seven names of actresses for the role of Polly, including Sheila McCarthy. It took several readings before Rozema decided to hire McCarthy. In the director's commentary on the DVD, Rozema said about the casting of McCarthy: \"When she came into the audition, I thought 'oh, pleeease be able to act.' She looked so unbelievably perfect, like a little bird just hatched. Almost asexual with these gigantic, sympathetic eyes. And … a kind of sweetness of manner that seemed just so right.\"\n\nUnlike McCarthy, who was unknown to Rozema prior to the making of the film, the director was already a friend of actress Ann-Marie MacDonald but Rozema still required her to audition for the role of Mary Joseph.\n\n\"Mermaids\" was shot in Toronto between September 24 and October 24, 1986. After principal filming was completed, Rozema, McCarthy and the first assistant director filmed additional location shots around Toronto for four or five days.\n\nThe film was shot in 16mm in both color and black-and-white, and was later blown up to 35mm. Shooting originally in 35mm was never seriously considered due to the higher costs of using that film stock.\n\nThe filming of Polly's fantasy flying scene was accomplished with a $60 special effect.\n\nRozema was the film's editor, performing that work from the end of 1986 through the beginning of 1987. The National Film Board of Canada allowed her to use their editing studios free of charge. Later, the NFB offered to pay for the consulting services of professional editor Ron Sanders, which Rozema readily accepted. In the director's commentary, Rozema said that because the film had such a small budget, she didn't have the luxury of multiple takes of many scenes. Most of the filmed footage was included in the final version of the film. By mid-January 1987, Rozema had a rough cut version of the film ready to show to the funding agencies.\n\nFollowing a rough cut screening of the film in February 1987, Cinephile president Andre Bennett suggested that the film be entered in the Directors' Fortnight program at the Cannes Film Festival. Rozema initially rejected that idea because she didn't think the film was ready, as it was in the final stages of sound editing and still had to be mixed. But after some positive reviews of these screenings, Rozema decided to submit the film to a selection committee that met in March 1987. By the time \"Mermaids\" was selected for screening at Cannes, Rozema and her crew had less than six weeks to complete the film.\n\nAfter the film was selected for Cannes, the producers needed to secure funding for blowing up the film to 35mm. They approached Telefilm twice but were rejected both times. Telefilm suggested that Rozema contact Jan Rofekamp for this funding, as his company Films Transit had already acquired foreign sales rights to the film and could deduct the approximately $40,000 cost of the blow-up from foreign sales revenue. Rofekamp agreed.\n\nRofekamp also generated the marketing plan for the film's premiere at Cannes. Tasks included compiling a press kit, creating promotional posters and other materials, translating the script into French, creating a print with French subtitles, and placing advertisements in trade publications.\n\nRozema originated the concept for the film's poster, envisioning a René Magritte-like photograph of Sheila McCarthy's head floating over a body of water. She hired Toronto graphic artist Robbie Goulden to create the final product, with promises of payment if the film made a profit. The photograph of McCarthy used in the poster was a family picture taken by McCarthy's father. Eighty percent of all buyers of the film used the same image in their advertising, and it was used on the cover of both the American and Canadian DVD releases.\n\nThe original plan was for singer-songwriter Jane Siberry to provide the voicings of the mermaids. But Siberry had a cold on the day those recordings were scheduled to take place, so her backing vocalist Rebecca Jenkins substituted instead.\n\nThe musical score was composed by Mark Korven, who had only two weeks to complete the work. The film's musical arranger was John Switzer, who was also Jane Siberry's bassist.\n\nDuring the initial depiction of one of Polly's visions, the \"Flower Duet\" aria from Léo Delibes' opera \"Lakmé\" is heard as background music; portions of this aria are heard multiple times throughout the film. Near the end of the film, Polly has a vision of conducting a small orchestra, performing selections from Ludwig van Beethoven's \"Fifth Symphony\".\n\n\"I've Heard the Mermaids Singing\" made its world premiere on May 10, 1987 at the Cannes Film Festival, as part of the Directors' Fortnight program. At the conclusion of the screening, two thousand audience members gave the film a six-minute standing ovation. Four additional screenings of the film were added to the Cannes schedule, and all sold out.\n\nThe film almost wasn't screened at Cannes. When Pierre-Henri Deleau, the programmer for the Directors' Fortnight, received the film he mistakenly thought it was three hours long and would not preview it. A technician later discovered the film was less than 90 minutes, so Deleau watched it, liked what he saw, and invited Rozema to the festival.\n\nSome distribution deals had been made prior to Cannes, but Rozema and Raffé had intentionally not sold the U.S. rights before the world premiere. After the film's selection for Cannes was announced in \"Variety\", the producers received numerous calls from American distributors who wanted private previews, but those requests were turned down. Raffé said of that decision \"We decided we wouldn't screen it for anybody. You would see it in the theatre with a big audience, and we would either win big or lose big.\"\n\nFollowing the successful Cannes premiere, the producers negotiated the sale of American distribution rights. At least seven American companies vied for the rights, including Orion Classics, Spectrafilm, and the eventual winner of the bidding war Miramax, represented at Cannes by Harvey Weinstein and Mark Silverman. Weinstein initially offered US$100,000 for the U.S. rights, but Raffé and Rozema rejected that offer and several subsequent ones from Miramax until they finally settled on US$350,000, which was the biggest number the producers could think of, as it represented the film's production budget.\n\nBy the end of the Cannes Film Festival, Rofekamp, Rozema and Raffé had negotiated sales to 32 countries including France, Germany, and the U.K. as well smaller countries such as Norway, Greece, Singapore, and South Africa. Rofekamp and the producers had earned advances on royalties worth $1.1 million, which made the film commercially successful before it was released.\n\nThe first post-Cannes film festival showing was in Portugal at the Figueira da Foz Film Festival on September 7, 1987.\n\nThe film made its Canadian premiere at the Festival of Festivals (now the Toronto International Film Festival) on September 10, 1987, and was honored by being screened at the festival's opening night gala, following upon the successful Cannes premiere.\n\nThe United States premiere and first theatrical screening took place on September 11, 1987 at the 68th Street Playhouse in New York City.\n\n\"Mermaids\" was invited to 32 film festivals, including festivals in Moscow, Munich, Hong Kong, Jerusalem and Mexico.\n\nSpecific film festival screenings included:\n\nReviews of the film in mainstream media following the Cannes premiere through its run in theaters were mixed, with some male reviewers initially less enthusiastic about the film than female reviewers. As time passed, the reviews got more positive.\n\nThe entertainment trade magazine \"Variety\" was given a private screening of the film in Toronto on 30 April 1987. Their official review, published on 20 May 1987 was very positive, stating that \"Mermaids\" is \"an off-beat, power-packed first feature … bursting with confidence, with Rozema in full control in all capacities nearly every step of the way…. It has an obvious active life in the art market, on the fest circuit, and in subsequent tv and video playoff.\"\n\nHowever in Vincent Canby's review in \"The New York Times\", the critic wrote that watching the film \"is like being cornered by a whimsical, 500-pound elf\" and that it \"takes itself more seriously than the screenplay warrants\".\n\nRichard Corliss wrote in \"Time\" magazine that the film is \"a fairy tale for feminist pre-teens\" and said Rozema was working \"entirely too hard to be ingratiating; her picture is a desperate audition for endearment\".\n\nA male reviewer from the \"Daily News of Los Angeles\" gave the film a grade of C, stating that the film is \"basically a student work, and not a particularly good student work at that. It's not film making, it's film musing.\" The reviewer went on to say the film represents \"feminism with a smile face\".\n\nA \"San Francisco Chronicle\" article about the film described it as \"a Cinderella story of major proportions\".\n\nA review by Rita Kempley in \"The Washington Post\" said the film is \"rough around the edges, brimming with uncontrolled talent and confiding as a close friend. And like its protagonist Polly Vandersma, it is not as simple-minded as it first seems, for under all the whimsy, an allegory hides.\"\n\nFilm critic Molly Haskell wrote in \"Vogue\" magazine that the film was a \"smashing commercial directorial debut\" and described it as \"a feminist fairy tale masquerading as a satire\".\n\nAn article by Graham Fuller in \"The Guardian\" stated that the film \"is one of the outstanding directorial debuts of the year\".\n\nIn a December 1987 review, Bob Thomas from the Associated Press wrote that Rozema's \"vivid and surprising imagination, coupled with a startingly original performance by Sheila McCarthy, help make the film a rare and unexpected delight\".\n\nIn his March 1988 review of the film, critic Roger Ebert gave the film 3.5 out of 4 stars, and wrote that director Rozema \"uses a seemingly simple style to make some quiet and deep observations\". Ebert also described Sheila McCarthy's performance as \"extraordinary\" and said \"she has one of those faces that speaks volumes, and she is able to be sad without being depressing, funny without being a clown\".\n\nAs of May 2020, 100% of the 11 critical reviews compiled by Rotten Tomatoes are positive, with an average score of 7.9 out of 10. That site's audience score has 68% of 1,118 users rating the film with at least 3.5 stars, with an average rating of 3.65. The film has no scores collected by Metacritic as of 2020.\n\nCanadian film scholar Thomas Waugh described Rozema as \"the most prominent of English Canadian lesbian filmmakers\". In identifying a feminist approach to this film and understanding Rozema's artistic intentions, Rozema says in an interview from 1991 that she refuses to define her work as \"distinctly feminist\" and emphasizes that \"gender is a category that does not interest her\". However, in 1993, Rozema claimed that her films assume feminism, concluding that \"it's in their foundation\".\n\nIn Rozema's cinematic work, the main characters are predominantly women, in heterosexual or lesbian relationships, or single. Several of her film features portray or touch upon lesbian love, a theme quite apparently shown in \"Mermaids\".\n\nThe critic Camille Paglia praised the film's \"wonderful comedy and realism\", commenting on the character Polly, \"This girl's kind of aimless, yet plucky. It's the twentysomething problem with self-definition.\"\n\nA November 1987 review of the film in the feminist newspaper \"Sojourner\" said that \"Mermaids\" \"is a film that could only be made by a woman. It strikes deeply at the heart of women's experiences in a way that even serious and compassionate male directors never do.\" The review continues with \"this film focuses on different kinds of love between women\".\n\nYet within some gay and alternative media coverage, there was criticism that the film glossed over the lesbian relationship between two of the characters, as well as complaints that Rozema had made a \"decision not to make a public declaration of her sexuality in interviews with the world press after Cannes\".\n\nIn a September 1987 article about the film in the American newspaper \"Gay Community News\", contributor Loie Hayes wrote \"Why, when I love Patricia Rozema's film just as it is, why do I cringe when she says it's not 'about lesbianism'?\" Hayes went on to describe the film as \"an ambitious and thoroughly entertaining treatise on creativity and commercial success; it's an 'anti-authority' film with the nerd winning over the admiration of the elegant, rich, power-turkey\".\n\nIn October 1987, Canadian journalist and lesbian activist Chris Bearchell wrote in a review of \"Mermaids\" that \"Even if fairy tales sometimes come true, it seems that a truly dyke tale, fanciful or otherwise, will have to wait for an out-of-the-closet dyke to write it\".\n\nThe first essay on \"Mermaids\" in a prominent academic journal by a highly-credentialed feminist film scholar was written by Teresa de Lauretis in 1990. In her \"Screen\" article, de Lauretis \"applied a political rubric that she called 'alternative women's cinema', and \"Mermaids\" failed her test\". De Lauretis wrote that the recognition of \"Mermaids\" as \"an exemplary film of women's cinema is ground for serious self-questioning by those of us who still want to claim the term for a feminist political project\".\n\nIn her book about the film, scholar Julia Mendenhall claims that the de Lauretis article in \"Screen\" was the start of \"the great divide in scholarly criticism\" on \"Mermaids\", although Mendenhall sided with the more positive reception of the film, writing:\n\nAccording to Box Office Mojo, \"I've Heard the Mermaids Singing\" earned US$25,998 in its first weekend, playing in only one theater. Its widest release in the United States during its theatrical run was in 27 theaters, and this source said the film earned a total of $1,408,491 in the US.\n\nFor the beginning of its theatrical run in New York City, the distributor took out a full page advertisement in \"The New York Times\", at a cost of US$25,000. After its first two weeks playing in New York, the film had earned more than $70,000.\n\nThe New York theatrical release led to a successful national roll-out, with the film eventually screening in approximately 50 American cities. It performed best in locations with dedicated art film audiences. Co-producer Raffé claimed that the film grossed about $2.5 million in the United States, despite Miramax's \"inscrutable bookkeeping methods\".\n\nThe Box Office Mojo entry for the film includes no data from non-US markets. In Canada, the film earned a total of CAN$264,965 at the box office, and by May 1992 had earned $644,000 including box office, television, and home video receipts. It played in most major Canadian cities, including a three month run in Ottawa. However, the film was not shown theatrically in Patricia Rozema's hometown of Sarnia, Ontario because there were no independent cinemas in the small city.\n\nAccording to Raffé, the film grossed over CAD$10M in worldwide receipts, earning more than twenty-five times its production costs.\n\n\"I've Heard the Mermaids Singing\" won seventeen awards worldwide by the end of its run at film festivals and theatrical release, including:\n\n\nIn addition, the film garnered the following honors:\n\n\n\"Mermaids\" was first released on VHS tape in Canada by Norstar Home Video. It was released on VHS tape in the United States during the last week of March, 1988 by Charter Entertainment.\n\nIt was first released on DVD in the United States by Miramax Home Entertainment in 2000 and in Canada by Alliance Atlantis in 2002. Both DVD releases include a director's commentary by Patricia Rozema. The US DVD also contains other special features including a theatrical trailer, biographies, and a photo gallery. The film has also been released on VHS tape and DVD in other countries and in other years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005104", "title": "Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts", "text": "Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts\n\nThe Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts is a large performing arts venue located at 300 South Broad Street at the corner of Spruce Street, along the stretch known as the \"Avenue of the Arts\", in Center City, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is owned and operated by Kimmel Center, Inc., an organization which also manages the Academy of Music in Philadelphia, and, as of November 2016, the Merriam Theater. The center is named after philanthropist Sidney Kimmel.\n\nThe Center is the home of the Philadelphia Orchestra, one of America's \"Big Five\" symphony orchestras. Kimmel Center is also the home venue of the Philadelphia Youth Orchestra, Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia, Philadanco, the Philadelphia Chamber Music Society, and a performance series known as \"Kimmel Center Presents\", which hosts a variety of jazz, classical, and world pop performers.\n\nIn 1986, the Philadelphia Orchestra approved a plan to construct a new concert hall to replace the aging Academy of Music. It hoped to complete the new facility in time for its 1991 season. The desire to move the orchestra from its facilities in the Academy of Music emerged as early as 1908, however plans stalled due to the lack of consensus on the project's scope and funding. They were revived again in the 1920s only to be scuttled by the Great Depression. Plans emerged again shortly after World War II when performing arts centers were constructed in other cities such as New York, Washington and Los Angeles. Despite the 1986 commitment, the project languished until 1993 when Sidney Kimmel donated $12 million to the project and in 1995, Orchestra and community leaders met to help revitalize the concert hall and also discussed merging it with a venue to house other area organizations and visiting artists. The two projects were officially merged as the Regional Performing Arts Center in 1996 and construction began in 1998. In 2000, the center was named for Sidney Kimmel in recognition of his gift in 1993 and an additional $3 million donation in 1998. The concert hall was named Verizon Hall to recognize contributions totaling $14.5 million in cash, equipment and services from Verizon and the Verizon Foundation.\n\nThe architect of the Center was Rafael Viñoly, and the acoustician was Artec Consultants. The Kimmel Center officially opened in an unfinished state on December 16, 2001. This followed a gala preview on December 14 featuring performances by André Watts, Denyce Graves, Frederica von Stade and Sir Elton John and the Philadelphia Orchestra premier at Verizon Hall on December 15. Numerous cost overruns and construction delays led to the filing of a lawsuit in 2005 by officials of the Kimmel Center against Viñoly. The lawsuit was settled for an undisclosed sum in 2006.\n\nA distinctive vaulted glass ceiling encloses the entire structure providing a large common lobby for all the facilities. The Center is a popular attraction, keeping its doors open to the public seven days a week. It hosts thousands of visitors annually and offers free tours of the facility regularly.\n\n\nThe Kimmel Center offers a variety of other programs besides concerts, specifically in the field of education. The Kimmel Center is home to its own Youth Jazz Orchestra called The Kimmel Center Youth Jazz Ensemble (KCYJE). This Ensemble includes many youth jazz musicians in the Philadelphia/New Jersey Area. The Ensemble is recognized as a youth version of the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra.\n\nAdditionally, The Kimmel Center holds a Teen Summer Arts Camp annually where it offers ten-day programs in chamber music, choral/vocal music, and jazz.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2005107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005107", "title": "1946 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1946 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on September 4, 1946. The result was a victory for Gabriel González Videla of the Radical Party, who received 40% of the public vote and 75% of the Congressional vote.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates who received the most votes.\n\nThe support of the Democratic Alliance to Gonzalez motivated the separation of a part of the Radical Party, opposite to the communist-radical alliance, which there shaped the directed by and Arturo Olavarría. This conglomerate raised Alfredo Duhalde's candidacy, supported also by the . Then, in one slightly confused situation, Duhalde and Arturo Alessandri stoop his respective candidacies giving step to the candidate Fernando Alessandri Rodríguez, standard-bearer of liberal, radical democratic and authentic Socialists of Marmaduke Grove.\n\nThe right-wing met in his own convention in July. Conservative, liberal and agrarian Labours Parties members came to the Convention with the following candidates:\n\n\nNevertheless none managed to triumph in the Convention (65% was needed and then 60% of the delegates to be elect) and this one was suspended after one week. Diverse meetings for the only candidate failed, and in this way Eduardo Cruz-Coke's candidacies remained elevated, supported for the conservatives and Arturo Alessandri, for liberal and agrarian Labour Parties members. Then he remained only Cruz-Coke supported by the conservatives, since liberal and agrarian Labours Parties members continued with Fernando Alessandri's candidacy, together with a sector of the radicalism (Democratic Radical party), after the resignations of Arturo Alessandri and the vice-president Alfredo Duhalde.\n\nAlready in February 1946 the situation had been defined inside the Radical party (of the president Ríos) where there face Gabriel Gonzalez Videla and Arturo Olavarría, the latter the support of the \"\"Duhaldist\"\" faction. Nevertheless, before the voting this one sector abstains, leaving only Olavarría, who was widely defeated by his contender.\n\nFor your part, the Democratic Alliance, successor of the Popular Front, met in a convention on July 21 and decided to support Gonzalez, leaving of side the candidacy of the communist Elías Lafertte.\n\nThe Socialist Party of Chile, opposite to such circumstances, there proposes his own candidate, Bernardo Ibáñez Aguila, though in the election are going to give his vote to Gonzalez Videla.\n"}
{"id": "2005111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005111", "title": "FINO", "text": "FINO\n\nIn computer science, FINO is a humorous scheduling algorithm. It is an acronym for \"first in, never out\" as opposed to traditional \"first in, first out\" (FIFO) and \"last in, first out\" (LIFO) algorithms. A similar one is \"FISH\", for \"first in, still here\".\n\nFINO works by withholding all scheduled tasks permanently. No matter how many tasks are scheduled at any time, no task ever actually takes place.\n\nA stateful FINO queue can be used to implement a memory leak.\n\nA mention of FINO appears in the Signetics 25120 write-only memory joke datasheet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005112", "title": "Fragmentation (reproduction)", "text": "Fragmentation (reproduction)\n\nFragmentation in multicellular organisms is a form of asexual reproduction in which an organism is split into fragments. Each of these fragments develop into matured, full grown individuals that are identical to their parents.\n\nThe splitting may or may not be \"intentional\" – it may or may not occur due to man-made or natural damage by the environment or predators. This kind of organism may develop specific organs or zones that may be shed or easily broken off. If the splitting occurs without the prior preparation of the organism, both fragments must be able to regenerate the complete organism for it to function as reproduction.\n\nFragmentation, also known as splitting, as a method of reproduction is seen in many organisms such as in bacteria: filamentous cyanobacteria, in fungi like molds, lichens, many animals such as sponges, acoel flatworms, some annelid worms and sea stars.fragmentation is different from budding and binary fission\n\nMoulds, yeasts and mushrooms, all of which are part of the Fungi kingdom, produce tiny filaments called hyphae. These hyphae obtain food and nutrients from the body of other organisms to grow and fertilize. Then a piece of hyphae breaks off and grows into a new individual and the cycle continues.\n\nMany lichens produce specialized structures that can easily break away and disperse. These structures contain both the hyphae of the]] and the algae (phycobiont) (see soredia and isidia). Larger fragments of the thallus may break away when the lichen dries or due to mechanical disturbances (see the section on reproduction in lichens).\n\nFragmentation is a very common type of vegetative reproduction in plants. Many trees, shrubs, nonwoody perennials, and ferns form clonal colonies by producing new rooted shoots by rhizomes or stolons, which increases the diameter of the colony. If a rooted shoot becomes detached from the colony, then fragmentation has occurred. There are several other mechanisms of natural fragmentation in plants.\n\n\nPeople use fragmentation to artificially propagate many plants via division, layering, cuttings, grafting, micropropagation and storage organs, such as bulbs, corms, tubers and rhizomes.\n\nAnimals like sponges and coral colonies naturally fragment and reproduce. Many species of annelids and flat worms reproduce by this method.\n\nWhen the splitting occurs due to specific developmental changes, the terms architomy, paratomy and budding are used. In architomy the animal splits at a particular point and the two fragments regenerate the missing organs and tissues. The splitting is not preceded by the development of the tissues to be lost. Prior to splitting, the animal may develop furrows at the zone of splitting. The headless fragment has to regenerate a complete head.\n\nIn paratomy, the split occurs perpendicular to the antero-posterior axis and the split is preceded by the \"pregeneration\" of the anterior structures in the posterior portion. The two organisms have their body axis aligned i.e. they develop in a head to tail fashion. Budding can be considered to be similar to paratomy except that the body axes need not be aligned: the new head may grow toward the side or even point backward (e.g. \"Convolutriloba retrogemma\" an acoel flat worm).\n\nMany types of coral colonies can increase in number by fragmentation that occurs naturally or artificially. Within the reef aquarium hobby, enthusiasts regularly fragment corals for a multitude of purposes including shape control; selling to, trading with, or sharing with others; regrowth experiments; and minimizing damage to natural coral reefs. Both hard and soft corals can be fragmented. Genera that have shown to be highly tolerant of fragmentation include \"Acropora\", \"Montipora\", \"Pocillopora\", \"Euphyllia\", and \"Caulastraea\" among many others. Most sea anemones reproduce through fragmentation. There are a variety of methods including longitudinal fission, where the original anemone splits across the middle, forming two equal-sized anemones, and basal laceration, in which small parts of the animal split from the base and form a new anemone.\n\nIn echinoderms, the process is usually known as fissiparity (a term also used infrequently for fission in general). Some species can intentionally reproduce in this manner through autotomy. This method is more common during the larval editing stages.\n\nAs this process is a form of asexual reproduction, it does not produce genetic diversity in the offspring. Therefore, these are more vulnerable to changing environments, parasites and diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005119", "title": "Sabah (film)", "text": "Sabah (film)\n\nSabah (, Translation \"Morning\") is a 2005 film directed by Ruba Nadda and starring Arsinée Khanjian as Sabah, a traditional Muslim woman living in Toronto. She falls in love with Stephen, a non-Muslim Canadian man (played by Shawn Doyle). The film had the alternate title Coldwater.\n\nSabah is a 40-year-old single immigrant from Syria living in Toronto with her family. She is responsible for her mother's well-being. Since her father's death, her brother Majid has been the family authority figure.\n\nHis niece, Souhaire, does not want him choosing her husband. His marriage is rocky, and he insists on tradition. Sabah decides to start swimming again; an activity not allowed by Majid. At a city swimming pool she meets Stephen; they are attracted to each other. Because he is not a Muslim, Sabah hides their friendship from her family.\n\nWith passage of time, their relationship gets deep and at one point they share a kiss. Sabah's niece teaches her belly dancing which Sabah enjoys. One day, while visiting Stephen at his carpenter workshop, she decides to stay overnight with him. Informing her mother that she will not be back that night, she dances and the two have sexual intercourse.\n\nThe next day, as she returns home, she faces her mother, brother, sister, sister-in-law and niece who are anxiously waiting for her. After some hesitation, she tells them the truth about her doings in the last few months. Majid responds by announcing that Sabah is no longer a part of the family, as Muslim traditions forbid marriage for Muslim women to non-Muslims. Sabah leaves and Majid decides to take care of their mother.\n\nAt Stephen's workshop, Sabah is met by her mother, sister and sister-in-law who insist that she speak to Majid. Majid tells her that the money their father left had run out eight years ago and he is supporting the family himself. Eventually both agree that the family must change. The women of the family are impressed by Stephen and his deep blue eyes.\n\nThe film ends with a feast at Sabah's family home. Stephen is mingling with his in-laws and everyone is having a good time.\n\nYoung stated that Sabah's family previously had \"drawn\" a \"hard line\" so the \"[T]urnaround ending, though comically inevitable, seems dramatically forced\".\n\n\nRuba Nadda stated that she got the inspiration to make the film while she was a student at York University; she observed a veiled Muslim woman on a public bus and wondered how she would have dealt with her sexual feelings, and then, how she would have managed affairs if she became infatuated with a non-Muslim man. Nadda had the concept of a \"very western looking man\" and a woman wearing a hijab kissing \"in the middle of the street.\" As the idea gestated, Nadda decided to use an older woman as the protagonist since such a character is limited by the already set-in-stone household roles and because such a woman may feel that a forbidden relationship would be her final chance for love; Nadda reasoned that the fear may tempt the woman into having an illicit affair.\n\nTelefilm provided funding for the film, and Nadda enlisted the support of Atom Egoyan and Simone Urdl; the two became the film's executive producers in April 2002 after approving the script. Nadda spent two months in New York City to study film production.\n\nAccording to Fadia Nadda, in the initial draft Stephen rescues Sabah during their first meeting; Fadia Nadda argued that having them meet in a more mundane manner was more realistic.\n\n\"Sabah\" was filmed in Toronto over a three-week period during the summer; a heat wave occurred during the filming. Nadda stated that she wanted to portray Toronto as being a beautiful city, contrasting with a gritty depiction found in other works. Luc Montpellier served as the film's lenser. Deborah Young of \"Variety\" stated that the film has \"an attractive, brightly colored look.\" Nadda intentionally omitted any references to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, the September 11, 2001 attacks, other acts of terrorism, and any resulting sentiment and actions against Arab Canadians.\n\nEach shot had the colour blue, with red and green also present in smaller amounts; the visuals received inspiration from paintings by Sir Frank Dicksee, Jean-Léon Gérôme, and Edward Hopper. The film uses water as a symbolism for rebirth and charting unknown territory.\n\nIn 2006, for her role in this film, Khanjian was nominated for \"best actress\" as part of the 2006 Genie Awards.\n\nStephen Cole of \"The Globe and Mail\" gave the film three stars and stated that the film was \"something special\"; Cole argued that the side stories take too much time and that the conflict with Majid was not as dramatic as it was intended.\nSteve Erickson of \"Gay City News\" argued that the film's premise of \"multi-cultural bliss\" \"feels mighty hollow\" since this is \"a world where tribal and ethnic tensions aren’t going away any time soon\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2005124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005124", "title": "President of Vanuatu", "text": "President of Vanuatu\n\nThe president of Vanuatu is the head of state of Vanuatu. The president is elected for a five-year term by an electoral college consisting of Parliament and the presidents of the regional councils. \n\nThe president's role is mostly ceremonial. One function reserved to him or her by the Constitution is the appointment of the chief justice of the Supreme Court, and three other justices.\n\nIn case of vacancy, the speaker of the Parliament will be acting president. \n\nFrom 1906 to 1980 the resident commissioners of the New Hebrides were British and French colonial officials. From 1887 to 1906 the New Hebrides was led by Anglo-French joint naval commissioners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005126", "title": "Giant cowbird", "text": "Giant cowbird\n\nThe giant cowbird (\"Molothrus oryzivorus\") is a large passerine bird in the New World family Icteridae. It breeds from southern Mexico south to northern Argentina, and on Trinidad and Tobago. It may have relatively recently colonised the latter island.\n\nIt is associated with open woodland and cultivation with large trees, but is also the only cowbird that is found in deep forest. It is a quiet bird, particularly for an icterid, but the male has an unpleasant screeched whistle, \"shweeaa-tpic-tpic\". The call is a sharp \"chek-chik\". They are also very adept mimics.\n\nLike other cowbirds, it is a brood parasite, laying its eggs in the nests of oropendolas and caciques. The eggs are of two types, either whitish and unspotted, or pale blue or green with dark spots and blotches. The host's eggs and chicks are not destroyed.\n\nTheir icterid hosts breed colonially, and defend their nests vigorously, so even a large, bold and aggressive species like the giant cowbird has to cover an extensive territory to find sufficient egg-laying opportunities. Several giant cowbird eggs may be laid in one host nest.\n\nThe male giant cowbird is long, weighs and is iridescent black, with a long tail, long bill, small head, and a neck ruff which is expanded in display. The female is smaller, averaging long and weighing . She is less iridescent than the male, and the absence of the neck ruff makes her look less small-headed. Juvenile males are similar to the adult male, but browner, and with a pale, not black, bill.\n\nThis gregarious bird feeds mainly on insects, and some seeds, including rice, and forages on the ground or in trees. It rarely perches on cattle, unlike some of its relatives, but in Brazil it will ride on capybaras as it removes horse flies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005128", "title": "The Simpsons: Bart's House of Weirdness", "text": "The Simpsons: Bart's House of Weirdness\n\nThe Simpsons: Bart's House of Weirdness is a platform video game published by Konami on January 1, 1992 for MS-DOS. Developed by Distinctive Software, it is based on the \"Simpsons\" franchise and features many aspects from the series. In the game, the player controls Bart as he escapes from the Simpsons' house after being grounded by his parents. On his adventures throughout town, Bart is equipped with various weapons that are used to fend off enemies and animals. \"Bart's House of Weirdness\" does not have a wide fan base because it was only released for DOS, but the early reviews of the game were positive, at least in terms of graphics and sound. A 2009 1UP.com review heavily criticized the gameplay of the game.\n\n\"Bart's House of Weirdness\" is an action-adventure platform game that uses single-screen movement. The plot sees Bart grounded to his room by his parents Homer and Marge after having pulled one too many pranks. With nothing to do, he quickly gets bored and escapes from the home. He travels around town, and eventually heads to an amusement park where he has to save Krusty the Clown from his archenemy Sideshow Bob.\n\nThe game has six levels and a final battle. The player controls Bart as he helps his sister Maggie recover her ball, explores the basement and attic of the Simpsons' home, sneaks out to the movie theater and the Springfield Mall, and has a dream in which he is inserted into the \"Itchy & Scratchy\" universe. During these levels, Bart fights dust bunnies, spiders (in the attic), ghosts (in the basement), space mutants (at the movie theater), and Itchy and Scratchy (in the dream world).\n\nBart is able to utilize a variety of weapons in the game, including a burp gun, a slingshot, spray paint, and water balloons. The player controls these weapons with either a keyboard or a joystick. The joystick control has two modes: one for shooting and one for jumping. Whenever the player misses one of the creatures and they are able to hit Bart, the life bar, called the \"Cool-O-Meter\", drops. In order to regain Bart's coolness, the player must find a cool item that he can use. When the player has completed all levels, Bart goes to the Krustyland amusement park to save Krusty from Bob.\n\n\"Bart's House of Weirdness\" was developed by Distinctive Software and published by Konami. It was announced by Konami at the June 1991 International Summer Consumer Electronics Show in Chicago. The game was released in 1992 solely for the DOS platform, and was available for both Color Graphics Adapter (CGA) and Enhanced Graphics Adapter (EGA), but not Video Graphics Array (VGA). Writers for UGO Networks have commented that the fact that \"Bart's House of Weirdness\" was released exclusively for DOS \"more than likely tells why its critical acclaim is zilch and fan support non-existent. It's surprising it got such a limited release, seeing it was published by Konami, who usually have no problem distributing games on a variety of platforms.\" Similarly, a 1UP.com editor wrote that the game is \"unknown (there's not even a single video of it on YouTube)\" and that it \"deserves a little more coverage, if only to acknowledge its existence\".\n\nThe game was reviewed in 1992 in issue 179 of \"Dragon\" magazine by Hartley, Patricia, and Kirk Lesser in the column \"The Role of Computers\". The reviewers gave the game five out of five stars, and commented that \"Without a doubt, \"Bart's House of Weirdness\" is one of the best arcade games we’ve played. It also happens to be one of Konami’s best products!\" They added that \"With superb Roland sound (the TV show theme and opening animations are quite good) and smooth animation, our only wish is that Konami would consider releasing this fine arcade delight with full VGA support sometime in the future. If you like Bart and really enjoy arcade games, you have to get this one.\" William Burrill of \"Toronto Star\" commented that \"the graphics in \"House of Weirdness\" are sharp and colorful, and look much like the television show. Music from the real show is also included, along with digitized samples of Bart's rather whining voice.\" \"Computer Gaming World\" liked the graphics' resemblance to the TV show, and concluded that \"\"House of Weirdness\" stands up as well as any 'Super-Maroid' arcade game\".\n\nIn 2009, eighteen years after \"Bart's House of Weirdness\" was released, 1UP.com editor Bob Mackey reviewed the game in 1UP's official Retro Gaming Blog. He praised the game for its graphics, but was critical of the gameplay. Mackey wrote that \"the graphics are far more impressive than any other \"Simpsons\" title at the time, outside of the arcade brawler. In fact, the graphics alone were responsible for my childlike [...] excitement over \"House of Weirdness\"; [...] they're pretty lush — even if they're not entirely faithful to the show. Bart's PC translation might be just a little off-model, but it's a gigantic leap over his duck-like visage seen on the NES.\" He added, however, that the game \"is completely unintuitive, your goals aren't made clear, it's never certain if you're doing the right thing, and you're often locked into screens with no apparent way out but death.\" Mackey also criticized the levels' structure that \"seems more generated than anything\" and the fact that the \"big, beautiful\" sprites sometimes do not move well.\n"}
{"id": "2005131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005131", "title": "John Lenders", "text": "John Lenders\n\nJohn Lenders is an Australian politician. He represented the Southern Metropolitan Region in the Victorian Legislative Council. He was most notably the Minister for Education in the Bracks Government and Treasurer of Victoria in the Brumby Government.\n\nHe was appointed Treasurer in August 2007 following the appointment of Premier John Brumby and was succeeded on 3 December 2010 after the election of the Baillieu Government. Lenders also served as the Leader of the Government in the Legislative Council during the tenure of the Labor Government.\n\nHe was the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council from 2010 to 2014 and held a number of shadow ministries.\n\nLenders retired at the 2014 Victorian state election.\n\nLenders entered parliament in September 1999, as the MLA for Dandenong North. During this period, he served as the Parliamentary Secretary for Treasury and Finance.\n\nHe was then elected, in the subsequent 2002 election, MLC for Waverley. As Minister for Industrial Relations, in 2002 he championed the Federal Awards (Uniform System) Bill, which sought to provide Federal award employment protection to Victoria's non-award covered workers, which was passed by Parliament in 2003.\n\nLenders was also made Minister for Consumer Affairs and Minister for Finance in 2002 - portfolios he occupied until 2005 and 2006 respectively. In January, 2005, he was made Minister for Major Projects, Minister for WorkCover and the TAC which he occupied until December 2006.\n\nLenders was elected to his current position of MLC for Southern Metropolitan Region in November 2006. In December of the same year, he was promoted to Minister for Education. On 3 August 2007 Lenders was again promoted to Treasurer, following the resignation of former Premier Steve Bracks.\n\nPrior to his election to the Victorian State Parliament in 1999, he was Assistant State Secretary 1988 had later State Secretary and Campaign Director of the Victorian ALP in 1994. During this time, he was also a member of the National Executive and Campaign Committee.\n\nLenders is the son of dairy farmers from Gippsland, and is married with three children. He grew up in regional Victoria, before moving to Melbourne for tertiary education.\n\nLenders attended Drouin East Primary School in 1963. He then moved to St Joseph's Primary School in Trafalgar until graduation in 1969.\n\nLenders studied education at Rusden Teachers College after graduating from Trafalgar High School; before going on to study law at Monash University\n\nLenders is a member of the Labor Party and has previously served as its State Secretary and campaign director.\n\nLenders is also a member of the Australian Services Union; Bicycle Victoria; and is a fellow of the Williamson Community Leadership Program.\n\nIn September 2010 Lenders was awarded Honorary Life Membership of the Proportional Representation Society of Australia in recognition of his commitment to reform of the Victorian Legislative Council, which he oversaw in the lead-up to and following the Labor Government's re-election in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "2005133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005133", "title": "Nayakan", "text": "Nayakan\n\nNayakan (; also spelt Nayagan) is a 1987 Indian Tamil-language gangster film written and directed by Mani Ratnam. It stars Kamal Haasan and Saranya (in her feature debut), with Karthika, Nassar, Janagaraj, Delhi Ganesh and Tinnu Anand in supporting roles. Loosely based on the life of the Bombay underworld don Varadarajan Mudaliar, it revolves around the transformation of an ordinary slum dweller named Velu into a feared don through various stages of his life.\n\n\"Nayakan\" was released on 21 October 1987, Diwali day, and became a critical and commercial success. Haasan's performance earned him the National Film Award for Best Actor. The film also earned the National Awards for Best Cinematography (P. C. Sreeram) and Best Art Direction (Thota Tharani). It has since featured in many lists of the greatest films ever made, including \"TIME\" \"All-Time 100 Best Films\", and CNN-IBN's \"100 greatest Indian films of all time\". The film was remade in Hindi as \"Dayavan\" (1988).\n\nAn anti-government union leader's only son Sakthivel \"Velu\" is arrested by the police to find his whereabouts. They trick Velu into believing them as his well-wishers and release him. When Velu meets his father, the police kill the latter. Feeling betrayed, Sakthivel stabs the police inspector and runs away to Bombay, where he is raised by Hussain, a kind-hearted smuggler living in the Dharavi slums.\n\nOne day, when Hussain is ill, Velu, now a young man, decides to carry out the smuggling activity on behalf of Hussain. His demand for a bigger commission from the smugglers angers them and they involve a police inspector Kelkar to arrest Hussain and kill him in jail. When they close the case as suicide, Velu is enraged knowing the truth and murders Kelkar. He later takes care of Kelkar's family which consists of his wife and a mentally challenged son Ajit. Kelkar's wife knew that her husband's immorality resulted in his death.\n\nVelu meets Neela, a schoolgirl forced into prostitution who has interests to pursue her education. Her innocence impresses Velu who marries her. They have two children: Surya and Charumathi. Velu's power and command gradually increases in Dharavi as he voices out in support of local people which gains him huge popularity among the masses. His rival smugglers in Bombay try to murder Velu in an attack but Neela is killed instead. After avenging his wife's death, Velu sends his children to Madras to safeguard them.\n\nAs the years pass, Velu's power further increases in Bombay and is fondly called \"Velu Naicker\" by everyone. Surya and Charumathi return to Bombay as adults after education. Surya follows Velu's footsteps, a fact that he is initially hesitant of, and later learns to accept. But when Surya is accidentally killed trying to flee the police in a botched mission, Charumathi blames Velu for the deaths of Neela and Surya. She decides to leave Bombay citing that she wants to get away from her father and his violent ways. Charumathi disowns her father and leaves his home.\n\nSome years later, a new assistant commissioner of police Patil is deputed in Bombay to eliminate the gangsters; his first target is Velu. He collects all the evidence needed for the arrest of Velu. When Velu comes to meet Patil, he learns that Charumathi is married to him and they have a son. Patil too learns that his wife is Velu's daughter and suspects that she might help her father to flee from the police.\n\nVelu absconds and his allies are arrested. He decides to surrender to the police to save them from undergoing torture in the police station. Through Charumathi, Velu sets up his surrender. Patil is shocked due to the lack of proper evidence against Velu as none comes forward from the public as witness against the crimes committed by him.\n\nPatil meets Kelkar's widow and the now grown-up Ajit and requests to disclose the truth behind her husband's death in the court. She refuses and defends Velu's acts. But Ajit is shocked after learning the truth. Velu is produced in the court and is exonerated due to lack of valid and strong evidence. He is overcome with emotion when his young grandson (Charumathi's son) asks him if he is a good or a bad man and Velu admits he does not know. Velu's grandson reveals his name as Sakthivel. Velu steps out of the court amid big cheer from his supporters, until Ajit shoots him to avenge his father's death; Velu dies on the spot.\n\n\n\nIn the mid 1980s, Muktha Srinivasan narrated a story inspired by the American film \"The Godfather\" to Sivaji Ganesan who agreed to act in the film. Amala and Kamal Haasan were also confirmed to act. However Ananthu, then an associate of Haasan, felt that it would be a Ganesan-focused film and not a Haasan film. The project was dropped. Haasan later told Srinivasan about the-then upcoming director Mani Ratnam. Ratnam had previously wanted to cast Haasan as the protagonist in his directorial debut, \"Pallavi Anu Pallavi\" (1983), but the collaboration could not materialise then as Haasan was committed to \"Raja Paarvai\" (1981) at that time.\n\nSrinivasan came to Ratnam's house and gave him an envelope, which contained a cassette of \"Pagla Kahin Ka\" (1970). Ratnam, after watching the film, met Haasan and initially rejected the offer, citing that a story based on \"Pagla Kahin Ka\" was not his cup of tea. After Haasan asked him the kind of film he preferred to make, Ratnam suggested two stories: one was on the lines of \"Dirty Harry\" (1971) and \"Beverly Hills Cop\" (1984), while the other was based on the life of the Bombay underworld don Varadarajan Mudaliar; the latter was finalised. Ratnam had earlier narrated this story, when it was only an idea, to producer R. C. Prakash, but it was not picked up then. Cinematography for \"Nayakan\" was handled by P. C. Sreeram, and editing by B. Lenin and V. T. Vijayan.\n\nIn September 1986, Haasan gave his schedule dates for the film to Srinivasan. Ratnam wanted Haasan to have as realistic a look as possible. He preferred Haasan in traditional Hindu attire. Haasan was initially hesitant regarding his look and wanted to sport a beard similar to that of his old-aged look in \"Sagara Sangamam\" (1983), as he felt it would not give away his jaw line, which would reveal that the character was portrayed by a younger person. Ratnam, in turn, did not want Haasan to sport a look similar to \"Sagara Sangamam\" or any of his other previous films. Haasan ultimately sported dentures to provide some weight around his jaw for Velu's old-age look.\n\nNeela, the wife of Velu, played by Saranya, who made her debut in the film, The character was created by Muktha Srinivasan to reduce the violent content and help the film cater to family audiences. Ratnam wanted a \"new face\" to portray Neela as he felt the character would have the required zest and gusto if it was done by a newbie. Debashree Roy claimed that she was approached to play this character, but refused as she considered that speaking in Tamil would be difficult for her. Saranya sent her photograph to Ratnam to audition for the role. She was later added to the cast after a successful screen test. According to Ratnam, she was the first and only person who auditioned for the role. Saranya's father was against her being cast, but she and her mother managed to convince him.\n\nRatnam believes that Nassar was suggested to him by Haasan, when Raghuvaran was being considered for the role of Charumati's husband, Assistant Commissioner Patil. Kuyili made a cameo appearance in the song \"Nila Adhu Vanathumele\" as a gypsy dancer. Actress Tara featured in an extended cameo appearance as Shakila, while Tinnu Anand featured as Ajit, the son of a police officer murdered by Velu, and Aditya Modi as Velu's grandson.\n\nRatnam initially planned to complete the shooting in 60 days and 70 rolls of film. Haasan was paid 1.75 million (US$145,583 in 1987) and the initial budget for the film was 6 million (US$500,000 in 1987). But soon, time and cost overruns had increased the budget to beyond 10 million (US$830,000 in 1987). According to Srinivasan, principal photography commenced in November 1986 and the first schedule lasted for 10 days, but the scenes shot during this period were scrapped because Haasan disliked them, prompting script rewrites and causing shooting to be delayed. The rewritten script had more violence, and influence from \"The Godfather\" and \"Once Upon a Time in America\" (1984). According to Ratnam, a three-day test shoot, unbeknownst to Srinivasan, was done in December 1986 as the script for the film was not finalised at that time. The test shoots featured Haasan in his get-ups seen in the film, but they did not make it to the final version of the film. The test shoots, however, helped to get the technical aspects of the film on the right track.\n\nRatnam said the first \"real schedule\" of \"Nayakan\" began in January 1987. 15 days of shooting took place in the slum areas of Dharavi. Using photographs taken there, the film's art director Thota Tharani created a set at Venus Studios in Chennai. Thousands of junior artists were hired to recreate the atmosphere of the slum areas. Additionally, pigeons were brought for the same. Haasan helped in the make-up for the other actors in the film and asked Janagaraj and Delhi Ganesh to cut their hair so as to make their characters in their old age scenes look convincing. He used Ittar perfume for the female cast. Haasan also brought his own gun, sparing Ratnam the usage of a dummy. In the scene where Haasan chases the inspector, he uses his own bottle of sugar glass, which he had brought from the United States.\n\nRatnam had marked around 1.2 million (US$100,000 in 1987) for the film's action sequences. To make the sequences slick and entertaining, cinematographer and stunt sequence director Jim Allen, who was known for his work stunt sequences in \"Sholay\" (1975) was chosen. But after three days, he was removed from the film as he charged 200,000 per day (US$16,000 in 1987) and Srinivasan could not afford the money. The remaining portions were shot at Bombay (now Mumbai), including the portions involving Velu's childhood life in the city. The scene featuring Neela studying for her mathematics exams was suggested by Srinivasan. Velu's childhood portions before he moves to Bombay were canned in Old Mahabalipuram Road for one and a half days. This was also the last part of the principal photography. According to Srinivasan, the film was completed in October 1987.\n\nThe song \"Naan Sirithal Deepavali\" was shot at the spot where the Taj Club House is located today. The old building previously located at that spot was called the \"Indian Express Building\" by film industrialists as it was adjacent to the Old office of \"Indian Express\". Thota Tharani converted the building's exterior into a brothel and used the opposite end of the building for Velu's house location. \"Nayakan\" was notable for using frame-within-the-frame technique of filmmaking. Ratnam and Haasan met Mudaliar in person, when Ratnam asked Mudaliar how he would foresee his own death; according to Haasan, Mudaliar replied that he would \"either die peacefully in a hospital (which is what happened) but left to the police, who couldn’t prove anything against him, they would bring him out of court and someone would slap him. This would cause a riot and they would then shoot him\", which inspired the film's climax.\n\nWhen the film was completed and the first print was ready, it ran for three hours. Although Ratnam and Haasan wanted Srinivasan to release the film uncut, he felt audiences would never see the entire film due to its length, so he requested Lenin to remove the scenes which he felt were unnecessary. The result, according to Srinivasan, \"gave life to the movie, along with the theme music \"Thenpandi seemayilae\".\"\n\nAlthough Kamal has acknowledged to \"Nayakan\" being inspired by \"The Godfather\", Ratnam has denied this, stating, \"It's easy to classify films in simple categories. \"Nayakan\" and \"The Godfather\" belong to the gangster genre. There's no similarity to \"The Godfather\".\" One scene in the film involves Velu and Selvam tying their illicit cargo to large bags of salt attached to rubber inner tubes which they then dump into the sea; the cargo sinks from the weight of the salt, but when the salt dissolves the cargo bobs to the surface, by which time they have passed the customs officers. This scene was described by Lalitha Gopalan in her 2002 book \"Cinema of Interruptions\" as an homage to \"Once Upon a Time in America\", a view that was shared by S. Shiva Kumar of \"The Hindu\". According to film historian S. Theodore Baskaran, the film \"tends to glorify violence and portrays the anti-social, smuggler-king in an approving and sympathetic way, modelling him on Robin Hood.\" Lalitha Gopalan notes that the film \"attempts faithfully to re-create a historical period by carefully managing different aspects of the \"mise en scène\". More than any other detail in the \"mise en scène\", automobiles – different models of cars, jeeps, and vans – indicate the passage of time within the diegesis.\"\n\nThe soundtrack was composed by Ilaiyaraaja, this being his 400th film soundtrack. Pulamaipithan wrote the lyrics for all the songs except \"Nila Adhu Vanathumele\", which Ilaiyaraaja himself wrote. The song \"Andhi Mazhai Megam\" is set in the Carnatic raga Natabhairavi, \"Nee Oru Kaadhal Sangeetham\" is in the Hindustani raga Desh, and \"Nila Adhu Vanathumele\" is in the Carnatic Keeravani. The theme song \"Thenpandi Cheemayile\" plays for most of the film; during the introduction titles, it has the colloquial line \"\"yaar adichaaro\"\" (sung by Ilaiyaraaja), but when it plays later in the film, the line is altered to the more polished \"\"yaar adithaaro\"\" (sung by Haasan). Film critic Baradwaj Rangan asked Ratnam whether this change was an indication to the eventual refinement of Velu. Ratnam said that Ilaiyaraaja's portions were recorded first, and that when they went for recording, they had this rustic version which lacked background music, and was of folk quality. Because the song was going to be repeated throughout the film, they also wanted a more orchestral version, and in this version sung by Haasan, the language became more sophisticated. \"Nee Oru Kaadhal Sangeetham\" is featured on both sides of the original LP record as the second track.\n\n\"Nayakan\" was released on 21 October 1987. The Censor Board at Chennai initially refused to permit the release of the film, as it was based on a living person. When Srinivasan appealed to the revising committee at Bombay, they said that they would permit the release of the film he produced a letter stating that it was not based on Mudaliar's life. Through writer Mathiolli Shanmugam, Srinivasan met Mudaliar, who gave him a letter, after which the censor appellate board at Bombay permitted the release of the film. G. Venkateswaran bought the rights of the film after Srinivasan distributed the film. The film was a commercial success, running for over 175 days in theatres and thereby becoming a silver jubilee film. It was later remade in Hindi as \"Dayavan\" (1988), which was a critical and commercial failure. In 2015, \"Nayakan\" was screened at the Habitat Film Festival.\n\n\"Nayakan\" received critical acclaim. In October 1987, N. Krishnaswamy of \"The Indian Express\" said, \"[\"Nayakan\"] is a rare Tamil film. Sensitivity is its hallmark. Authenticity is its lifebreath. It has the stamp of nativity. It has class. Yet, it is not an Art film. It could be a watershed in Tamil cinema; an artistically made film that could make money as well.\" On 1 November 1987, \"Ananda Vikatan\" stated that Haasan underplayed his role well and demonstrated his histrionics as a godfather in the film well, adding that the film stood out for its sets, taking, colour, richness and international quality camera work. The magazine gave the film one of its highest marks of 60. Writing for \"India Today\" in 1989, Madhu Jain believed \"Nayakan\" deserved \"a permanent place in the Indian cinema pantheon\" after watching it at the 12th International Film Festival in Delhi. A 1988 review published in \"Bombay: The City Magazine\" described Kamal as having given a \"powerhouse performance\".\n\nFor his performance, Haasan won the Cinema Express Award for Best Actor and Mani Ratnam won in the Best Director category. At the 1987 National Film Awards, \"Nayakan\" won the awards for Best Actor (Haasan), Best Cinematography (P. C. Sreeram) and Best Art Direction (Thota Tharani). The film was India's official submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1988 at the 60th Academy Awards; however, it was not shortlisted among the final nominees.\n\n\"Nayakan\" became a \"landmark\" of popular Indian cinema. As a part of its legacy, the film has been acclaimed for being a box-office success whilst containing the critic elements of art. English journalist Phil Hardy stated in his 1997 book \"The BFI Companion to Crime\", \"From the films that followed in the wake of \"The Godfather\", the most interesting is Mani Rathnam's \"Nayakan\" (1987) starring [Kamal Haasan] in a fictional version of the Bombay gangster Varadarajan Mudaliar's life.\" In 2005, the magazine \"TIME\" included \"Nayakan\" in its list of \"All-Time 100 Best Films\". After the film was selected by \"TIME\" as one of the best, insiders of the magazine spoke about Ratnam's work in the film, saying \"Ratnam has no such difficulty blending melodrama and music, violence and comedy, realism and delirium, into a two-and-a-half-hour demonstration that, when a gangster's miseries are mounting, the most natural solution is to sing in the rain.\" The tagline given to the film by \"TIME\" was \"A terrific gangster epic in the \"Godfather\" style.\" The film was also included in \"Best Bollywood Classics\" by \"TIME\". The film was also ranked 13th in The Moving Arts Film Journal list of greatest films of all time. \"Nayakan\" was also included in NDTV's list \"India's 20 greatest films\". In April 2013, on the centenary of Indian cinema, CNN-News18 included the film in its list of \"100 greatest Indian films of all time\". When questioned by Baradwaj Rangan if he would make a sequel to \"Nayakan\", Ratnam said, \"Never. When you finish a film, you're glad to be rid of it. You're happy you don't have to go back to that script again. Been there, done that.\"\n\nThe scenes and dialogues from the film have been parodied in \"Dumm Dumm Dumm\" (2001), \"Chellamae\" (2004). When stand-up comedian and television anchor Bosskey launched a quirky play titled Dada (Don) in October 2005, he named the cast after famous characters in Tamil films. Accordingly, \"Anniyan\" (one of Vikram's character in the film), Badshah (Rajinikanth in \"Baashha\") and Velu Nayakkar (Haasan's role in \"Nayakan\") play the central characters of a family of brothers. Similarly, in the 2013 comedy film \"Onbadhule Guru\", in which the characters were named after popular protagonists of Tamil cinema, a member of the supporting cast was christened Velu Nayakkar. According to the Telugu newspaper \"Eenadu\", Rajinikanth, after being impressed with \"Nayakan\", requested Ratnam to write a similar script, but the project never materialised; its similarities with Pa. Ranjith's script for \"Kabali\" (2016) made him accept to star in the latter film. The famous line in the film, \"Neenga Nallavara Kettavara?\" (Are you good or bad?) was used in \"The Punch Song\", a song from the film, \"Aaha Kalyanam\" (2014).\n\nIn October 2012, coinciding with the 25th anniversary of \"Nayakan\", Haasan published an article in \"The Hindu\", titled \"Of course Velu Nayakan doesn't dance\", in which he recounted the making of the film. In that article, he derided Srinivasan, claiming that the latter was not happy about shooting the film in Bombay, that films \"were a business\" for him and he \"wasn't interested in films as art\". In response, Srinivasan sent a legal notice to Haasan. He stated, \"[Kamal Haasan] has abused me in his article, and this has deeply hurt me. I've been unable to do my job ever since I read the piece.\" Srinivasan wrote an article titled \"Living in past glory\", his rejoinder to Haasan's article, in which he accused Haasan of \"distorting the facts for reasons best known to him, and undermining the contributions made by everyone.\" He did, however, conclude by writing that he was not against Haasan taking credit for the film's success, as long as it was not at his expense.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005140", "title": "The Crimson Idol", "text": "The Crimson Idol\n\nThe Crimson Idol is the fifth studio album by heavy metal band W.A.S.P., released internationally in 1992 through Parlophone and on May 24, 1993 in the United States through Capitol Records. A remastered edition was reissued in 1998, containing a bonus disc of B-sides and live material from 1992. The album charted within the top 40 in five countries. It is a rock opera, telling the story of the rise and fall of a fictional rock star named Jonathan Steel. In 2018, Napalm Records released a re-recording of the album, along with a DVD of the film that was originally to accompany the album, under the title of \"ReIdolized (The Soundtrack to The Crimson Idol)\".\n\nTaking nearly three years to complete, \"The Crimson Idol\" was originally recorded as a Blackie Lawless solo album, but bandleader Lawless bowed to fan pressure and released it under the W.A.S.P. name. \n\nUnusually, the album's tour, named The Crimson Idol Tour, took place fifteen years after its release to mark its fifteenth anniversary, commencing on October 26, 2007 at the Principal Club Theater in Thessaloniki, Greece. A film recorded for the album was also shown in public for the first time, which was played along with the band as they performed their tracks to it in synch. The shows marked the first time that the album has been played from start to finish by the band since its recording. \"Mephisto Waltz\", the seventh track from \"The Headless Children\" (1989), served as the show's opener, followed by \"The Titanic Overture\", the first track from \"The Crimson Idol\". All shows had a long encore section ranging from 2–6 songs, containing W.A.S.P. classics as well as \"Take Me Up\" from their 2007 album \"Dominator\".\n\nA re-recorded version of the entire \"The Crimson Idol\" album was announced on January 23, 2017. Details and the cover art of \"ReIdolized (The Soundtrack to the Crimson Idol)\" were released on November 17, 2017.\n\nIn 2017, W.A.S.P. played the whole album again on tour to mark the 25th anniversary of its release. The tour, dubbed \"Re-Idolized: The 25th Anniversary of the Crimson Idol\", took place from September through November 2017 in Europe. All shows had a short encore, usually about four or five songs, as well as a few of their classics and the title track from their 2015 album \"Golgotha\".\n\nThe story of \"The Crimson Idol\" revolves around a teenager named Jonathan. He is the son of William and Elizabeth Steel, and brother of Michael Steel. Michael is the favored son of his parents, and Jonathan is a complete failure in their eyes. After Michael is killed in a car accident by a drunk driver, Jonathan runs away from home and starts to wander the streets, becoming addicted to drugs and alcohol. While walking past a music store, he sees a guitar and desires to become a rock star. He breaks the display window with a bottle of booze, thus beginning his journey into acclaimed excess.\n\nJonathan plays the stolen crimson-colored guitar as often as he can in order to obtain money to record an album. He then meets a man named \"Chainsaw\" Charlie, the president of a major record label. Charlie promises to make Jonathan a star, and introduces him to Alex Rodman, who will become his manager. Jonathan goes on to achieve his ambition of becoming a rock star, but finds out that life is not as glamorous as it seems. Despite now having fame and fortune, he still longs for the one thing he always wanted, that being the love and acceptance of his parents.\n\nOne night before a concert, Jonathan calls his parents in an attempt to reconcile their differences and heal the emotional wounds between them. According to the story, \"less than fifty words were spoken\"; the last four were \"we have no son\". Realizing that he will never be accepted by his parents, Jonathan decides to commit suicide. During the aforementioned concert, he removes the strings from his guitar, shapes them into a noose and hangs himself.\n\nThe overall concept is explained in the 1998 bonus track, \"The Story of Jonathan (Prologue to the Crimson Idol)\".\n\n\nThe German magazine \"Rock Hard\" declared \"The Crimson Idol\" Album of the Month in June 1992 and the reviewer wrote that it maintained the same \"power, roughness, melodic fullness and epic breadth\" of its predecessors, with songs \"not always at the world-class level, but damn close.\"\n\nIn a modern review for AllMusic Greg Prato described \"The Crimson Idol\" as \"essentially a Blackie Lawless solo album\" and indicated \"The Invisible Boy\", \"Chainsaw Charlie (Murders in the New Morgue)\" and \"I Am One\" as highlights. In his review for \"The Collector's Guide to Heavy Metal\", Martin Popoff called \"The Crimson Idol\" an \"unenjoyable, even hurtful failure in the concept album department\", lacking \"the creative resonance the painstaking process\" of making it \"should have nurtured\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005144", "title": "The Simpsons: Bart vs. The Juggernauts", "text": "The Simpsons: Bart vs. The Juggernauts\n\nThe Simpsons: Bart vs. the Juggernauts is an action video game released in 1992 for the Game Boy. It was developed by Imagineering and published by Acclaim. The plot stars Bart from \"The Simpsons\" in a game show based on \"American Gladiators\", in which he has to compete in challenges to earn money. Critics gave \"The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Juggernauts\" average reviews.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Juggernauts\", the player controls cartoon character Bart Simpson from the animated television series \"The Simpsons\". He is participating in a weekly game show called \"Juggernauts USA\", based on the television program \"American Gladiators\", in which he has to run through obstacle courses, battle huge muscle-bound \"juggernauts\", and do various other challenges. There are a total of seven challenges that change from week to week. To make it onto the next week's episode of \"Juggernauts USA\" and avoid being eliminated, Bart must collect a certain amount of money from the challenges.\n\nEach of the four levels of \"The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Juggernauts\" are made up of an episode of the game show \"Juggernauts USA\". Every challenge is based on a character from \"The Simpsons\". For example, there is one challenge in which Bart has to run an obstacle course in Apu's Kwik-E-Mart store. Another one is Dr. Marvin Monroe's \"Hop, Skip and Fry\", in which Bart jumps on a floor of tiles that randomly shifts from being safe to electrifying. The others include basketball, skateboarding, a juggernaut fighting match, and a match of shoving at Moe's Tavern. The characters Kent Brockman and Marvin Monroe are the game show's commentators; after the completion of a challenge they comment on Bart's performance.\n\nThe game was developed by Imagineering and published by Acclaim. It was released in 1992 for the handheld console Game Boy.\n\n\"The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Juggernauts\" received average reviews from critics. UGO Networks commented that the game is \"actually a pretty original idea with some decent gameplay and mix of genres — easily one of the better \"Simpsons\" Game Boy adventures,\" concluding that \"it was all right; nothing stellar, but good enough.\" \"Nintendo Power\" gave the game a 3.35/5 rating, while Matt Williamson of \"Rocky Mountain News\" gave it a B- grade, commenting: \"a hysterical sendup of the \"American Gladiators\". Nice action sequences.\"\n\nIn 2009, 1UP.com editor Bob Mackey reviewed the game in 1UP's official Retro Gaming Blog. He wrote that \"Some of the events—out of seven total—are actually pretty entertaining; Dr. Marvin Monroe's Hop, Skip and Fry [...] could actually be updated for a more fleshed-out Xbox Live Arcade game. But the fighting-based mini-games throw a wrench in the works by leaving too much entirely up to chance and the limited controls of the Game Boy [...]. In what may be one of its few saving graces, \"Juggernauts\" unexpectedly captures a little of the \"Simpsons\" written humor with its post-game commentary by Kent Brockman and Dr. Marvin Monroe. I wasn't exactly crying with laughter, but I actually got a few chuckles out of Monroe's psychobabble overanalysis of Bart's performance.\"\n"}
{"id": "2005149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005149", "title": "Lou Reed (album)", "text": "Lou Reed (album)\n\nLou Reed is the debut solo studio album by American musician Lou Reed, released in April 1972 by RCA Records, two years after he left the Velvet Underground. It was produced by Richard Robinson and Reed and features London session musicians as Reed's backing band, two of whom, Rick Wakeman and Steve Howe, were from the British progressive rock band Yes. Wakeman recalled that during the recording sessions, \"the lights had to be out so nobody could see.\" The album was recorded in Morgan Studios, London, between December 1971 and January 1972.\n\n\"Lou Reed\" comprises eight new recordings of then-unreleased Velvet Underground songs, plus two new songs, \"Going Down\" and \"Berlin\" (the latter was re-recorded by Reed as the title track for his 1973 album \"Berlin\").\n\nWith increasing interest in the Velvet Underground, Reed's debut album was highly anticipated, but the result was a commercial and relative critical disappointment, peaking at only No. 189 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nAll tracks are written by Lou Reed, except where noted.\n\n\n\nEight tracks from \"Lou Reed\" were, at one point, originally performed by The Velvet Underground. These recordings have been released on various compilations and live albums, which have been cataloged below.\nCredits are adapted from the \"Lou Reed\" liner notes.\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2005154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005154", "title": "Natalia (given name)", "text": "Natalia (given name)\n\nNatalia is a female given name with the original Late Latin meaning of \"Christmas Day\" (cf. Latin natale domini). It is currently used in this form in Italian, Romanian, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian and Polish. Other forms and spellings include Natalie/Nathalie (Dutch, English, French, German, Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, Finnish, and Icelandic), Natálie (Czech), Natália/Nathália (Portuguese, Slovak and Hungarian), Natalya/Nataliya (), Nataliya/Natalya (), Nataliia (), (Latvian), (; Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Lithuanian, and Macedonian), Natàlia (Catalan) and ნატალია (Georgian).\n\nIn Russian, a common diminutive is Natasha (Наташа).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005155", "title": "Universal binary", "text": "Universal binary\n\nA universal binary is, in Apple parlance, an executable file or application bundle that runs natively on either PowerPC or Intel-manufactured IA-32 or Intel 64-based Macintosh computers; it is an implementation of the concept more generally known as a fat binary.\n\nWith the release of Mac OS X Snow Leopard, and before that, since the move to 64-bit architectures in general, some software publishers such as Mozilla have used the term \"Universal\" to refer to a fat binary that includes tailored builds for both i386 (32-bit Intel) and x86_64 systems. The same mechanism that is used to select between the PowerPC or Intel builds of an application is also used to select between the 32-bit or 64-bit builds of either PowerPC or Intel architectures.\n\nApple, however, continues to require native compatibility with both PowerPC and Intel in order to grant third-party software publishers permission to use Apple's trademarks related to Universal binaries. At the same time, Apple does not specify whether or not such third-party software publishers must (or should) bundle separate builds for both the 32-bit and 64-bit variants of either architecture.\n\nUniversal binaries were introduced at the 2005 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference as a means to ease the transition from the existing PowerPC architecture to systems based on Intel processors, which began shipping in 2006. Universal binaries typically include both PowerPC and x86 versions of a compiled application. The operating system detects a universal binary by its header, and executes the appropriate section for the architecture in use. This allows the application to run natively on any supported architecture, with no negative performance impact beyond an increase in the storage space taken up by the larger binary.\n\nStarting with Mac OS X Snow Leopard, only Intel-based Macs are supported, so software that specifically depends upon capabilities present only in Mac OS X 10.6 or newer will only run on Intel-based Macs and therefore does not require Intel/PPC fat binaries. Additionally, starting with OS X Lion, only 64-bit Intel Macs are supported, so software that specifically depends on new features in OS X 10.7 or newer will only run on 64-bit processors and therefore does not require 32-bit/64-bit fat binaries. Fat binaries would only be necessary for software that is designed to have backward compatibility with older versions of Mac OS X running on older hardware.\n\nThere are two general alternative solutions. The first is to simply provide two separate binaries, one compiled for the x86 architecture and one for the PowerPC architecture. However, this can be confusing to software users unfamiliar with the difference between the two, although the confusion can be remedied through improved documentation, or the use of hybrid CDs. The other alternative is to rely on emulation of one architecture by a system running the other architecture. This approach results in lower performance, and is generally regarded an interim solution to be used only until universal binaries or specifically compiled binaries are available (see Rosetta).\n\nUniversal binaries are larger than single-platform binaries, because multiple copies of the compiled code must be stored. However, because some non-executable resources are shared by the two architectures, the size of the resulting universal binary can be, and usually is, smaller than both binaries combined. They also do not require extra RAM because only one of those two copies is loaded for execution.\n\nApple previously used a similar technique during the transition from 68k processors to PowerPC in the mid-1990s. These dual-platform executables were called fat binaries, referring to their larger file size.\n\nNeXTSTEP, another predecessor of Mac OS X, supported fat binaries so that one application bundle could be run on multiple architectures, including Motorola's m68k, Intel's x86, Sun Microsystems' SPARC and Hewlett-Packard's PA-RISC. The binary format underlying the universal binary, a Mach-O archive, is the same format used for the fat binary in NeXTSTEP.\n\nApple's Xcode 2.1 supports the creation of these files, a new feature in that release. A simple application developed with processor-independence in mind might require very few changes to compile as a universal binary, but a complex application designed to take advantage of architecture-specific features might require substantial modification. Applications originally built using other development tools might require additional modification. These reasons have been given for the delay between the introduction of Intel-based Macintosh computers and the availability of third-party applications in universal binary format. Apple's delivery of Intel-based computers several months ahead of their previously announced schedule is another factor in this gap.\n\nApple's Xcode 2.4 takes the concept of universal binaries even further, by allowing four-architecture binaries to be created (32- and 64-bit for both Intel and PowerPC), therefore allowing a single executable to take full advantage of the CPU capabilities of any Mac OS X machine.\n\nMany software developers have provided universal binary updates for their products since the 2005 WWDC. As of December 2008, Apple's website now lists more than 7,500 Universal applications.\n\nOn April 16, 2007, Adobe Systems announced the release of Adobe Creative Suite 3, the first version of the application suite in a Universal Binary format.\n\nThroughout the 2006-10 period, many applications for Mac OS X were ported to Universal binary, including QuarkXPress, Apple's own Final Cut Studio, Adobe Creative Suite, Microsoft Office 2008, and Shockwave Player with version 11 - after that time most were made Intel-only apps. Non-Universal 32-bit PowerPC programs will run on Intel Macs running Mac OS X 10.4, 10.5, and 10.6 (in most cases), but with non-optimal performance, since they must be translated on-the-fly by Rosetta; they will not run on Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and later as Rosetta is no longer part of the OS.\n\nThe Unix file command (on macOS and several other Unix-like systems) can identify Mach-O universal binaries and report which architecture(s) they support.\n\nSnow Leopard's System Profiler provides this information on the \"Applications\" tab.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005164", "title": "1932 Chilean general election", "text": "1932 Chilean general election\n\nGeneral elections were held in Chile on 30 October 1932. Arturo Alessandri of the Liberal Party was elected president, whilst the Conservative Party and Radical Party emerged as the largest parties in the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nThe election took place roughly a year after the previous election, but political and economic instability caused by the Great Depression which hit a low in mid-1932, only made the situation worse. President Montero had to resign shortly after a mutiny led by Marmaduque Grove, who headed the Socialist Republic of Chile until being overthrown by former ally Carlos Dávila who would also be overthrown, this time by Bartolome Blanche. After his downfall, Abraham Oyanedel became head of state. The return of Alessandri became so highly awaited that he won the election in a landslide ending a turbulent and bitter year for the country, being considered today as the worst one in Chilean history.\n\nThe presidential election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates that received the most votes.\n\n The Socialist parties included New Public Action (9,790 votes) and Chilean Socialists (5,352 votes).\n\nFollowing the elections, three of the independent candidates elected to the Chamber of Deputies joined the Communist Party.\n"}
{"id": "2005166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005166", "title": "Krusty's Fun House", "text": "Krusty's Fun House\n\nKrusty's Fun House is a video game based on the animated sitcom \"The Simpsons\".\n\nOriginally released as Rat-Trap on the Commodore Amiga, it was developed by Fox Williams for the British software house Audiogenic, who licensed it to Acclaim Entertainment, the U.S.-based publishers of a range of games based on \"The Simpsons\".\n\nThe player directs small rats to an extermination area through complicated maze-like levels. The player controls Krusty the Clown, who must navigate through his Krusty Brand Fun House. Each level is a puzzle in which a number of rats must be exterminated. Using different objects and obstacles, Krusty must create a path for the rats to follow and guide them towards an extermination device. Other creatures such as snakes, martians, flying pigs and birds attempt to hinder Krusty's progress by injuring him; he must throw pies in order to defeat them.\n\nIn each stage the extermination devices are run by a different character, including Bart, Homer, Corporal Punishment and Sideshow Mel.\n\nThe game was released in 1992 for the Amiga, NES, IBM PC, Sega Master System, Sega Game Gear, Game Boy, Super NES and Sega Mega Drive/Genesis. Acclaim published the console versions, and sub-licensed the home computer versions to Virgin. The 16-bit versions on the Super NES and the Mega Drive/Genesis were entitled Krusty's Super Fun House.\n\nThere are two revisions of the Super NES and Genesis games. Version 1.1 featured completely different music tracks for the second and fourth world.\n\n\"Super Play\" magazine gave the SNES version of \"Krusty\" a 79 percent rating and wrote \"it's actually pretty good fun to play, although perhaps more of a Younger Player-oriented game than anything else. Not one to set your heart on fire, but a good solid game nevertheless.\" \"Computer Gaming World\" in April 1994 said that the computer version \"is an above average arcade/strategy game that is ideal to burn away half an hour or so\".\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the game an A-.\n\nKrusty's Super Fun House on MobyGames\n"}
{"id": "2005173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005173", "title": "1931 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1931 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on 4 October 1931. The result was a victory for Juan Esteban Montero of the Radical Party, who received 64% of the vote.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates who received the most votes.\n"}
{"id": "2005179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005179", "title": "1927 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1927 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on 22 May 1927, following the resignation of President Emiliano Figueroa. The result was a victory for Interior Minister Carlos Ibáñez del Campo, who ran as an independent and received 98% of the vote.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, both houses of the National Congress would come together to vote on the two candidates who received the most votes.\n"}
{"id": "2005182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005182", "title": "The Simpsons: Bart's Nightmare", "text": "The Simpsons: Bart's Nightmare\n\nThe Simpsons: Bart's Nightmare is a 1992 video game developed by American company Sculptured Software based on the television show \"The Simpsons\". It was released on the SNES and the Sega Genesis.\n\nBart Simpson falls asleep while studying and dreams of a strange universe where TVs and fairies roam the streets. The player must find Bart's lost homework and progress through the various levels to keep the homework pages and eventually wake up.\n\nThe game is split in two parts. The first is set on a street (probably Evergreen Terrace, but referred to as Windy World). Bart walks around and has to find pages of his homework while avoiding enemies such as living post boxes and various characters from the show. Power-ups that Bart can collect include bubble gum (with which he can blow bubbles to repel enemies or collect floating blue Zs to restore his health), watermelon seeds (which he can spit at enemies to defeat them or make them change direction), pillows (which create a new health bar for him if he runs out of Zs), and his skateboard (which temporarily increases his speed as well as restoring and extending his health bar the longer he is on it). Jimbo and his gang will coerce Bart into strolling with them, causing Bart to lose control of his movements and have to move with them, taking damage as he does. Hitting a flying saxophone will summon Lisa Simpson with pixie wings to sprinkle fairy dust on Jimbo and his gang and transform them into rats, freeing Bart. However, if Bart is by himself, the Lisa pixie will turn him into a frog who cannot attack. If Bart catches a kiss blown to him by an old lady, it will revert him to his human form.\n\nPrincipal Skinner occasionally appears and tries to dress Bart in his Sunday school suit. If the player walks into Skinner, Bart will change appearance and become very slow and not be able to fire at enemies; however, the suit will also protect Bart from taking damage from all enemies (save Jimbo and his gang). The suit wears off after a set amount of time, or when Bart jumps in a puddle.\n\nWhen a page is found in Windy World, the player can jump onto it, where Bart will shrink down on the page, and the player has to choose one out of a selection of two randomly chosen minigames. The player must point Bart to one of the two color-coded doors to play a minigame and retrieve a lost page of Bart's homework. The doors and games are:\n\n\nThe minigames can be played in any order; the pages awarded will be 1 through 8 depending on the order they were retrieved.\n\nUpon either failing the respective minigame (and not getting the page back) or completing the minigame (and receiving the page as a reward), the screen will flash back to Bart's room at night, which shows the number of points the player has and the number of pages collected, while Bart snores. Once a minigame is completed, it cannot be played again. Both doors will be the same color if there is only one minigame to complete.\n\nThe game ends when Bart loses all of his Zs (Windy World will be covered in a white fog, suggesting Bart's nightmare is nearly over) and takes damage one more time, or if he successfully completes all the minigames. Depending on how many pages Bart retrieves and how many points he gets, he is awarded a letter grade. Bart will hold it up for the player to see, and then slightly different endings are shown where the players sees the Simpson family's reactions to Bart's grade by having the paper affixed to the refrigerator, which is strikingly similar to the final scene in \"Bart Gets an F\". If Bart is given an \"F\", the worst grade, the entire family is mad at him except Maggie, with slightly higher grades having at least Homer pleased with Bart's work. Lisa is always annoyed with Bart's work unless the player manages to get Bart an outstanding grade, in which case she will look at Bart's paper in disbelief.\n\nThis minigame-oriented gameplay gives the game an arcade style. Although much of the game could be categorized as a platformer, some of the minigames could fit in the shoot-em-up genre, particularly the Bartman and Bartzilla stages.\n\nCompany meddling during the development of the game prompted Bill Williams, the game's designer, to leave the video game industry.\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote that \"Falling asleep while doing his homework, Bart has to battle with the demons of his subconscious—imagining himself as, among others, a rampaging green Bartzilla and a caped Bartman. A surreal blast.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2005184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005184", "title": "Marys Peak", "text": "Marys Peak\n\nMarys Peak (formerly Mary's Peak and sometimes still spelled this way) is a mountain in Benton County, Oregon, United States, just southwest of Philomath. It is the highest peak in the Oregon Coast Range. It is also the highest point in Benton County,\nand ranks eleventh in the state for prominence. It may have been named after Mary Lloyd, who came to Oregon in 1845, and was known as the first white woman to cross the Marys River, which has its origin on the mountain, though there are alternate theories about the name.\n\nOn a clear day at the top of the peak, facing east, northeast, and southeast, one can see the cities and suburbs of the Willamette Valley, as well as the Cascade Range. To the west, the Pacific Ocean is visible on clear days.\n\nThe road to the peak now remains open in the winter. During the 2010–2011 winter, the Forest Service announced that it will leave the gates open to facilitate travel to the summit. The road will not be maintained, so a lifted 4x4 or four wheel chains are required for motor access during the winter months.\n\nOn June 15, 2019, the Oregon Geographic Names Board unanimously endorsed a proposal to give 10 unnamed creeks that flow down Mary's Peak Native American names. The Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde and Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians were enlisted to be involved in representing the ancient indigenous groups and selecting the new names. The names proposed for adoption are in the languages of the Kalapuya, Wusi’n and Yaqo’n people who originally inhabited the land. Approval from the national board may take up to a year.\n"}
{"id": "2005188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005188", "title": "Bilingual Today, French Tomorrow", "text": "Bilingual Today, French Tomorrow\n\nBilingual Today, French Tomorrow: Trudeau's Master Plan and How it Can be Stopped was a controversial 1977 book by Jock V. Andrew, a retired naval officer. It alleged that Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau's policy of official bilingualism was a plot to make Canada a unilingually francophone country, by instituting reverse discrimination against anglophone Canadians.\n\nThe book inspired the formation of the lobby group Alliance for the Preservation of English in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005189", "title": "1925 Chilean presidential election", "text": "1925 Chilean presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Chile on 22 October 1925. They were the first direct elections in the country's history and the first to be held under the new 1925 constitution. The result was a victory for Emiliano Figueroa, who received 71% of the vote.\n\nThe election was held using the absolute majority system, under which a candidate had to receive over 50% of the popular vote to be elected. If no candidate received over 50% of the vote, a joint session of the National Congress would vote on the two candidates that received the most votes.\n\nA member of the Liberal Democratic Party, Figueroa ran as an independent, and was also supported by the Conservative Party, the Radical Party, the United Liberal Party, the Doctrinal Liberal Party, and Democrat Party, the Unionist Liberal Party and the Aliancista Liberal Democratic Party.\n"}
{"id": "2005190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005190", "title": "Satyricon (nightclub)", "text": "Satyricon (nightclub)\n\nSatyricon was a nightclub in the Old Town neighborhood of Portland, Oregon, United States that operated from 1984 to 2010. It was the longest-running punk venue in the western United States, and has been referred to by some journalists and historians as the \"CBGB of the West Coast.\"\n\nLocated in a building that had served as a horse stable in the early 1900s, the club's owner, George Touhouliotis, founded Satyricon after acquiring a tavern that had operated in the building. Touhouliotis reshaped the tavern into a nightclub, and named it after the 1969 Federico Fellini film of the same name. Satyricon became a prominent music venue in the city, and hosted various local and touring punk and alternative rock bands throughout the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn May 2003, the club abruptly closed, after which it was acquired by new owners and reopened as an all-ages venue in 2006. It officially closed in November 2010, and the building in which it was located was demolished in July 2011. The club was the subject of a 2013 documentary titled \"Satyricon: Madness and Glory\".\n\nThe Satyricon, located at 125 N.W. Sixth Avenue, was formerly Marlena's Tavern, \"a dark, narrow barroom on a seedy stretch.\" Prior to its establishment as a bar and restaurant, the building had served as a horse stable in the early 20th century before being converted into a tavern.\n\nSatyricon was founded by George Touhouliotis, a former taxi driver who acquired Marlena's Tavern in 1983. Upon taking ownership, Touhouliotis re-conceived the location as a nightclub that would offer live music. He named the club Satyricon after the 1969 Federico Fellini film of the same name. At the time, the surrounding Old Town Chinatown neighborhood had a seedy and dangerous reputation. The block was characterized as Portland's skid row, \"a real shithole of a neighborhood\" with \"open drug dealing, fights, knives, [and] guns.\" Local historian SP Clarke recalled that \"A mere attempt to walk the sidewalks ... required a helmet and full body armor.\"\n\nSatyricon opened in March 1984, and attracted a wide array of musical groups, as the club's booking agent made \"no stylistic or hierarchical\" distinction among the musical acts. Local punk bands the Wipers and Poison Idea became notable regular acts at the club, as well as various underground musicians. According to public documents regarding the business's liquor control license, Satyricon opened at 8 p.m. each night, and offered \"live music and dancing\" from 10 p.m. until around 2:30 a.m. Additionally, the club hosted open mic nights, poetry readings, and performance art exhibitions.\n\nOn September 20, 1985, Satyricon began offering food, which included a souvlaki take-out window called Eat or Die. By 1985, the club was selling around $7,000 of alcoholic beverages per month, and around $3,000 in food, with 20% of all food orders occurring through the take-out window. Owner Touhoulitis petitioned for the Oregon Liquor Control Commission (OLCC) to allow for relaxations on allowing minors into the club's bandstand area between March 1984 and July 1985, but multiple incidents in which minors infiltrated the bar led the OLCC to determine that \"the premises [are] not suitable for increased access by minors.\" This largely had to do with the club's layout, which maintained little division between the bandstand and the bar. The interior of the building was described by journalists as such:\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the club was frequented by local residents such as poet Walt Curtis and Courtney Love, the latter of whom met friend and bandmate Kat Bjelland there in 1984 through The Miracle Workers' frontman Gerry Mohr. The club is also notable for being the place where Love first crossed paths with her future husband, Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain. In a 2010 interview, she claimed she met Cobain there in 1988 at a Dharma Bums concert where she was reading spoken word poetry, although other accounts state that the two met in January 1989 or 1990 when Nirvana was playing at the club, and that they playfully wrestled in front of a jukebox that night. Mark Arm of Mudhoney would later claim the story to be apocryphal, and that two in fact met while Mudhoney was touring with Love's band Hole in Europe in 1991. In a 2015 interview, Love clarified: \"It was at the Satyricon ... I sometimes lie and say which bands were playing but I actually don't remember. But Nirvana was obviously playing. He was cute, he was attractive, and he was funny ... Everyone always writes that the song that was playing [on the jukebox] was Living Colour, but that wasn't it. It was \"Dear Friend\" by Flying Color.\n\nCommenting on the various stories and lore surrounding the club, journalist Zach Dundas wrote: \"The written record of the club's existencewhich can amount to no more than 1 percent of the Whole Truthis a florid tale of excess, controversy, creative chaos. And, yes, artistic greatness.\"\n\nIn 1990, a benefit LP record was put out for the club called \"\"Satyricon ... the Album\"\". It included tracks from local punk acts such as Poison Idea, Dharma Bums and Napalm Beach. Beginning in the early 1990s, Satyricon became a frequent host to grunge bands, including Nirvana, Soundgarden, Pearl Jam, and Mudhoney, among others. In 1993, Satyricon opened its own restaurant called \"Fellini\", a nod to the club's namesake.\n\nDave Grohl played his first show with his post-Nirvana outfit Foo Fighters (after Cobain's suicide) at Satyricon. Other events, besides notable concerts, include a number of incidents involving notable people (including Courtney Love passing out) and a police riot in 1990.\n\nIn May 2003, Satyricon abruptly closed and was slated to be taken over by the owners of another (former) club in town, Moody's. It reopened as an all-ages club in August 2006 under the management of the owners of the Loveland, an all-ages venue in Portland. Mild renovations were undertaken, though a review of the club upon its reopening noted: \"The club looks the same ... eerily so. Same bar stools, same black paint. At the same time, it looks unfinished, like someone decided to remodel, ripped up a few boards and then totally slacked off.\"\n\nIn October 2010, Ben Munat, the Satyricon's booking agent, organized thirteen \"\"Farewell Satyricon Shows\"\" for that month. Bands included Big Daddy Meat Straw, the Dandy Warhols (with original drummer Eric Hedford, playing songs from first two albums with some original guitars), Pond, Poison Idea, and Napalm Beach, with the final concert taking place on October 31, 2010. Commenting on the club's closure, owner Touhouliotis said: \"I had gotten tired. A place like that runs on creativity and energy; it's not automatic. And by the late '90s, the turn of the millennium, my energy wasn't there.\"\n\nDemolition of the building began in July 2011, after which many pieces of furniture, memorabilia, and parts of the building were \"unceremoniously given away to anyone interested.\" The urinal trough in the men's restroom was reportedly acquired by a tulip farm in Gresham. The marquee above the club's entrance was believed to have been either stolen or destroyed in the demolition process, as it remained unaccounted for. In 2017, Courtney Taylor-Taylor, frontman of the Dandy Warhols, reported that he had found the marquee, which he had installed at The Old Portland, a wine bar he opened in 2016. The location of the original building is now home to the nonprofit MacDonald Center service center and studio apartments to serve low-income residents.\n\nThe club was used as a filming location for Gus Van Sant's 1985 film, \"Mala Noche\". In 2013, after its demolition, a documentary about the club, \"Satyricon: Madness and Glory\", was released.\n\nThe following are documented bands that notably performed at Satyricon:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005197", "title": "Dharma Bums (band)", "text": "Dharma Bums (band)\n\nThe Dharma Bums were a U.S. garage band, consisting of Jim Talstra, John Moen, Jeremy Wilson, and Eric Lovre. They named themselves after the Jack Kerouac book \"The Dharma Bums\".\n\nThe band was formed in 1987 in Portland, Oregon by members of two local bands, The Watchmen and Perfect Circle (no connection with the later bands The Watchmen or A Perfect Circle). Their first album, \"Haywire\", was produced by Scott McCaughey (lead singer of the Young Fresh Fellows) and recorded for the PopLlama label in 1989. McCaughey later played their debut to Frontier Records boss Lisa Fancher, who was impressed enough to re-release the album. One of the tracks, \"Boots of Leather\", proved to be an enduring college radio hit.\n\nIn 1990 the more polished album \"Bliss\" was released on Frontier Records. Featuring greatly improved songwriting, this release covered subjects including rape, adolescence, and suicide in a mature fashion built on ragged rock textures. The Dharma Bums recorded their third and final album \"Welcome\" for the Tim/Kerr label in 1991 and disbanded in 1992. Wilson went on to form the alt-rock band Pilot.\n\nMany in the local Portland scene had expected the Dharma Bums to be a breakthrough alternative rock act of the Northwest music scene, but Nirvana, a frequent opening act for the Dharma Bums, was to become the symbol of the genre instead. Some biographers, such as Melissa Rossi, author of \"Courtney Love: Queen of Noise ()\", and Poppy Z Brite, author of \"\", write that Courtney Love and Kurt Cobain first met each other at a Dharma Bums concert in Portland—where Nirvana served as the opening act. In an interview with Fuse TV posted on YouTube on March 11, 2012, Courtney Love herself says, \"I met (Kurt) in 1988 at a Dharma Bums show.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005201", "title": "List of presidents of the Regional Government of Príncipe", "text": "List of presidents of the Regional Government of Príncipe\n\n"}
{"id": "2005202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005202", "title": "Virtual Bart", "text": "Virtual Bart\n\nVirtual Bart is a video game developed by Sculptured Software and published by Acclaim. It was released for the Super NES and Genesis in 1994. \n\nThe official guide to the game (\"Virtual Bart Official Game Secrets\", Prima Publishing, 1995; re-published by the author, 2019) was written by Steve Schwartz. Although originally slated to be a guide to \"all\" Simpsons games, it took over a year to obtain the necessary permissions, limiting its coverage to only \"Virtual Bart.\"\n\nAt a science fair, Bart wanders into a virtual reality exhibit and must pass all the \"virtual worlds\" (levels) to escape the machine. Passing a set of virtual worlds grants an ending sequence, and completing all the levels with all lives remaining wins the game. The format is similar to the previously released \"\", save for the lack of a hub world from which the levels are accessed. Gameplay for most of the levels consists of standard platforming elements. If the player runs out of lives, game over occurs.\n\n\"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" scored the Super NES version a 4.8 out of 10, commenting that \"The control is awful (like on the dinosaur stage), the stages unappealing, and the whole thing seems rushed.\"\n\nReviewing the Genesis port, \"GamePro\" praised it as being \"virtual identical\" to the SNES original. They commented of the game itself that \"The humorous variations on Bart, different game play (including behind-the-Bart racing and a shooter level), and cameos of \"Simpsons\" nitwits all combine to keep the action intriguing and funny.\"\n"}
{"id": "2005216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005216", "title": "Macaron", "text": "Macaron\n\nA macaron ( ; )\nor French macaroon ( )\n\nis a sweet meringue-based confection made with egg white, icing sugar, granulated sugar, almond meal, and food colouring.\nThere is some variation in whether the term \"macaron\" or \"macaroon\" is used, and the related coconut macaroon is often confused with the macaron. In North America, most bakers have adopted the French spelling of \"macaron\" for the meringue-based item to distinguish the two. Stanford professor of linguistics Daniel Jurafsky describes how the two confections have a shared history with macaroni (Italian ). Jurafsky notes that French words ending with \"-on\" that were borrowed into English in the 16th and 17th centuries are usually spelled with \"-oon\" (for example: \"balloon\", \"cartoon\", \"platoon\"). In the UK, many bakeries continue to use the term \"macaroon\".\n\nThe macaron is traditionally held to have been introduced in France by the Italian chef of queen Catherine De Medici during the Renaissance. Since the 19th century, a typical Parisian-style macaron is presented with a ganache, buttercream or jam filling sandwiched between two such cookies, akin to a sandwich cookie. The confection is characterized by a smooth squared top, a ruffled circumference—referred to as the \"crown\" or \"foot\" (or \"pied\")—and a flat base. It is mildly moist and easily melts in the mouth. Macarons can be found in a wide variety of flavours that range from traditional (raspberry, chocolate) to unusual (foie gras, matcha).\n\nMacarons have been produced in the Venetian monasteries since the 8th century A.D. During the Renaissance, French queen Catherine de' Medici's Italian pastry chefs made them when she brought them with her to France in 1533 upon marrying Henry II of France. According to \"Larousse Gastronomique\" the macaron was created in 1791 in a convent near Cormery. In 1792, macarons began to gain fame when two Carmelite nuns, seeking asylum in Nancy during the French Revolution, baked and sold the macaron cookies in order to pay for their housing. These nuns became known as the \"Macaron Sisters\". In these early stages, macarons were served without special flavours or fillings.\n\nIt was not until the 1930s that macarons began to be served two-by-two with the addition of jams, liqueurs, and spices. The macaron as it is known today, composed of two almond meringue discs filled with a layer of buttercream, jam, or ganache filling, was originally called the \"Gerbet\" or the \"Paris macaron.\" Pierre Desfontaines, of the French pâtisserie Ladurée, has sometimes been credited with its creation in the early part of the 20th century, but another baker, Claude Gerbet, also claims to have invented it. French macaron bakeries became trendy in North America in the 2010s.\n\nMany Italian cookbooks of the 16th-century mention almond biscuits closely resembling macarons, albeit under different names. The earliest known recipe dates back to the early 17th century and appears to be inspired by a French version of the recipe.\n\nThere are two main methods for making a macaron - the \"French\" method and the \"Italian\" method. The difference between the two is the way the meringue is made.\n\nIn the French method, egg whites are whisked until stiff-peaked meringue forms. From there, sifted, ground almonds and powdered sugar are folded in slowly until the desired consistency is reached. This process of knocking out air and folding is called macaronage.\n\nThe Italian method involves whisking the egg whites with a hot sugar syrup to form a meringue. Sifted almonds and icing sugar are also mixed with raw egg whites to form a paste. The meringue and almond paste are mixed together to form the macaron mixture. This method is often deemed more structurally sound yet also sweeter and also requires a candy thermometer for the sugar syrup.\n\nEither Italian or French meringue can be combined with ground almonds.\n\nA macaron is made by combining icing sugar and ground almonds into a fine mixture. In a separate bowl, egg whites are beaten to a meringue-like consistency. The two elements are then folded together until they are the consistency of \"shaving foam\", and then are piped, left to form a skin, and baked. Sometimes, a filling is added.\n\nSeveral French cities and regions claim long histories and variations, notably Lorraine (Nancy and Boulay), Basque Country (Saint-Jean-de-Luz), Saint-Émilion, Amiens, Montmorillon, Le Dorat, Sault, Chartres, Cormery, Joyeuse and Sainte-Croix in Burgundy.\nMacarons d'Amiens, made in Amiens, are small, round-shaped biscuit-type macarons made from almond paste, fruit and honey, which were first recorded in 1855.\n\nThe city of Montmorillon is well known for its macarons and has a museum dedicated to them. The Maison Rannou-Métivier is the oldest macaron bakery in Montmorillon, dating back to 1920. The traditional recipe for Montmorillon macarons has remained unchanged for over 150 years.\n\nThe town of Nancy in the Lorraine region has a storied history with the macaron. It is said that the abbess of Remiremont founded an order of nuns called the \"Dames du Saint-Sacrement\" with strict dietary rules prohibiting the consumption of meat. Two nuns, Sisters Marguerite, and Marie-Elisabeth are credited with creating the Nancy macaron to fit their dietary requirements. They became known as the 'Macaron Sisters' (Les Soeurs Macarons). In 1952, the city of Nancy honoured them by giving their name to the Rue de la Hache, where the macaron was invented.\n\nMacarons in Japan are a popular confection known as マカロン (\"makaron\"). There is also another widely available version of \"makaron\" which substitutes peanut flour for almond and a wagashi-style flavouring. The \"makaron\" is featured in Japanese fashion through cell phone accessories, stickers, and cosmetics aimed towards women.\n\nIn Switzerland, the Luxemburgerli (also Luxembourger) is a brand name of confectionery made by the Confiserie Sprüngli in Zürich, Switzerland. A Luxemburgerli is a macaron comprising two disks of almond meringue with a buttercream filling, though different flavours are also available. Luxemburgerli are smaller and lighter than macarons from many other vendors.\n\nFlavours of macarons available in the US have been known to include mint chocolate chip, peanut butter and jelly, snickers, peach champagne, pistachio, strawberry cheesecake, candy corn, salted pretzel, chocolate peanut butter, oatmeal raisin, candy cane, cinnamon, maple bacon, pumpkin, and salted caramel popcorn.\n\nIn Paris, the Ladurée chain of pastry shops has been known for its macarons for about .\n\nIn Portugal, Australia, France, Belgium and Switzerland, McDonald's sells macarons in their McCafés (sometimes using advertising that likens the shape of a macaron to that of a hamburger). McCafé macarons are produced by Château Blanc, which, like Ladurée, is a subsidiary of Groupe Holder, though they do not use the same macaron recipe.\n\nOutside of Europe, the French-style macaron can be found in Canada and the United States.\n\nIn Australia, Adriano Zumbo and his TV series \"MasterChef\" have contributed to the macaron becoming a popular sweet treat, and it is now sold by McDonald's in its Australian McCafe outlets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005217", "title": "Mazen al-Tumeizi", "text": "Mazen al-Tumeizi\n\nMazen al-Tumeizi ( also transliterated Mazen Tumesi, c. July 5, 1979 – September 12, 2004) was a Palestinian journalist, killed on-camera in Baghdad, Iraq by U.S. helicopter gunfire while covering the Haifa Street helicopter incident. His last moments were recorded by the camera he had been reporting into, including his dying words as he gasped to his cameraman. The graphic tape of his death sparked an increase in concern for journalists reporting in occupied Iraq, as well as outrage in the Arab world.\n\nTumeizi was a Palestinian reporter for Saudi-owned news networks al-Arabiya and al-Ikhbariya. He was the third al-Arabiya journalist to be killed in Iraq by U.S. forces, after reporter Ali al-Khatib and cameraman Ali Abdelaziz.\n\nTumeizi died during the Haifa Street helicopter incident. The footage shows Tumeizi covering a group of curious Iraqis ululating around the wreckage of a U.S. Bradley Fighting Vehicle that had been recently abandoned after suffering damage from an improvised roadside bomb attack. A loud explosion can then be heard, followed by layers of smoke and debris. Tumeizi collapses from the impact, falling toward the camera, and the camera's lens is spattered with his blood as he falls. The cameraman (identified by Tumeizi as \"Seif\") loses focus, but Tumeizi's last words are captured in the camera's audio feed:\n\n\"Seif\" would later be identified as Reuters camera operator Seif Fouad, who was also injured in a subsequent rocket strike.\n\nMazen al-Tumeizi was among 11 civilians killed in the Haifa Street attack on Sept. 12, 2004, after fighting between insurgents and members of the 1st Battalion, 9th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division when a United States Apache helicopter was called in to destroy a damaged Bradley Fighting Vehicle to prevent insurgents from looting its weapons and ammunition.\n\nInternational news agencies reported that Tumeizi began filming the abandoned vehicle's location three hours after it had been ambushed, a claim disputed by the U.S. military. The official military report places the time of the helicopter strike only 40 minutes after the Bradley's being ambushed, and states that the airstrike on the wrecked Bradley was called \"to prevent looting and harm to the Iraqi people.\" \n\nNaim Tubasi, chief of the Palestinian Journalists' Union, suggested Tumeizi's killing to have been a deliberate targeting of Arab journalists in Iraq, and called Tumeizi's killing \"one more American crime in Iraq.\" Najwa Kasem, an Al Arabiya anchor and former colleague of Tumeizi, reacted to American suggestions that Tumeizi was \"one of the terrorists\" by describing them as \"really surprising and sad.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2005225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005225", "title": "Tiandihui", "text": "Tiandihui\n\nThe Tiandihui (), the Heaven and Earth Society, also called Hongmen 洪門 (the Vast Family), is a Chinese fraternal organization and historically, a secretive folk religious sect in the vein of the Ming loyalist White Lotus Sect, the Tiandihui's ancestral organization. As the Tiandihui spread through different counties and provinces, it branched off into many groups and became known by many names, including the \"Sanhehui\". The \"Hongmen\" grouping is today more or less synonymous with the whole \"Tiandihui\" concept, although the title \"Hongmen\" is also claimed by some criminal groups.Its current iteration is purely secular.\n\nUnder British rule in Hong Kong, all Chinese secret societies were collectively seen as criminal threats and were bundled together and defined as \"Triads\", although the Hongmen might be said to have differed in its nature from others. The name of the \"Three Harmonies Society\" (the \"Sanhehui\" grouping of the Tiandihui) is in fact the source of the term \"Triad\" that has become synonymous with Chinese organized crime. Because of that heritage, the Tiandihui (more commonly known there as \"Triads') is both controversial and prohibited in Hong Kong.\n\nRepublican-era scholars generally thought that the Tiandihui was founded by Ming loyalists in the early Qing dynasty to resist the Manchu invasion of China. In 1964, scholar Cai Shaoqing published the article \"On the Origins of the Tiandihui\" () based on his research of Qing archives (now known as the First Historical Archives) in Beijing. He concluded that the Tiandihui was founded in 1761 and its roots lay in mutual aid rather than national politics. His interpretation was further developed by his student Qin Baoqi and confirmed by independent research by the Taiwanese scholar Zhuang Jifa.\n\nThe founders of the Tiandihui—Ti Xi, Li Amin, Zhu Dingyuan, and Tao Yuan—were all from Zhangpu, Zhangzhou, Fujian, on the border with Guangdong. They left Zhangpu for Sichuan, where they joined a local cult and left disenchanted. Of the four, Ti Xi soon left for Guangdong, where he organized a group of followers in Huizhou. In 1761, he returned to Fujian and organized his followers from both provinces to form the Tiandihui.\n\nA century earlier, the Qing dynasty made membership in such societies illegal, driving them into the arms of the anti-Qing resistance, for whom they now served as an organizational model. The 18th century saw a proliferation of such societies, some of which were devoted to overthrowing the Qing, such as the Tiandihui, which had established itself in the Zhangpu and Pinghe counties of Zhangzhou in 1766. By 1767, Lu Mao had organized within the Tiandihui a campaign of robberies to fund their revolutionary activities.\n\nThe Tiandihui began to claim that their society was born of an alliance between Ming dynasty loyalists and five survivors of the destruction of Shaolin Monastery—Chua Teck Tiong (), Hong Dai Ang (), Ma Chew Heng (), Ho Teck Deh (), and Lee Shih Kai ()—by the Ch'ing forged at the Honghua Ting (Hung Fa Ting, Vast or Red Flower Pavilion), where they swore to devote themselves to the mission of \"Fan Ch'ing Fu Ming\" ().\n\nIn 1768 anti-Qing Tiandihui rebel Zhao Liangming claimed to be a descendant of the imperial house of the Song dynasty.\n\nThe merchant Koh Lay Huan, who had been involved in these subversive activities, had to flee China, arriving in Siam and the Malay States, to eventually settle in Penang as its first Kapitan China before dying in 1826.\n\nDuring the late 19th century, branches of the Hongmen were formed by Chinese communities overseas, notably the United States, Canada, and Australia, where they are nowadays known as \"Chinese Freemasons.\"\n\nFollowing the overthrow of the Qing Dynasty of China in 1911, the Hongmen suddenly found themselves without purpose. From then on, the Hongmen diverged into various groups. When some Hongmen groups based within China could no longer rely on donations from sympathetic locals; being unable to resume normal civilian lives after years of hiding, they turned to illegal activities – thus giving birth to the modern Triads.\n\nThe Hongmen is believed to consist of about 300,000 members worldwide, members found in China, Taiwan, and Chinese overseas communities. Membership is overwhelmingly ethnically Chinese but there are also Japanese members and a few white American members. The Hongmen are divided into branches, of which there are believed to be approximately 180. The largest of the branches, Wu Sheng Shan, consists of perhaps 180,000 members. Membership is said to be primarily working class, and is also said to include a considerable membership in the armed forces of the Republic of China (Taiwan).\n\nHongmen members worldwide continue to observe certain common traditions: they all stress their patriotic origin; they all revere Guan Yu, a historic Chinese figure who embodies righteousness, patriotism, and loyalty; and they all share certain rituals and traditions such as the concept of brotherhood and a secret handshake.\n\nToday, the Hongmen is an illegal society in Hong Kong because of its perceived or real links with the Triads.\n\nIn Taiwan, by contrast, the Hongmen is not only legal, but politically influential; this is not surprising, since Sun Yat-sen, founding father of the Republic of China, was a senior figure within the Hongmen, as was nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek. Moreover, the Kuomintang, or Chinese Nationalist Party, was formed from the Xingzhonghui and Guangfuhui, groups not unlike the Hongmen.\n\nBecause of the Hongmen's revolutionary character and mysterious quality, their future was unclear after the Republic of China central government moved to Taiwan. For a long time, the Republic of China on Taiwan did not openly allow the Hongmen to operate. After martial law ended in 1989, Ge Shan Tang formed and started exchange with the outside world.\n\nUnder the influence of Chiang Kai-shek, the Hongmen attempted to remain somewhat secretive, but in recent years the organization's activities have been more transparent.\n\nThe organization also has numerous business interests, and is reportedly trying to open a martial arts school in Taiwan.\n\nOn 1 January 2004, Nan Hua Shan Tang was registered with Taiwan's Ministry of the Interior.\n\nIn Mainland China, the Hongmen is known as the Zhi Gong Party (), a political party that participates in the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. Wan Gang, president of the Zhi Gong Party, is currently the only non-Communist Party minister in the Chinese government.\n\nThe Canadian branch was established in 1863 in Barkerville, British Columbia. In 1971, Chinese Freemasons National Headquarters of Canada () was incorporated under the Canadian Corporations Act on 31 May 1971, and registered on 22 July 1971. The Barkerville headquarter was donated to British Columbia government.\n\nThe Hongmen continues to exist within numerous overseas Chinese communities, albeit with rapidly aging memberships; its main purposes today are to act as fraternities among overseas Chinese, and to participate in charitable activities. On 28 July 1992 the Hongmen held their 3rd Worldwide Hongmen Conference in the United States. Over 100 worldwide representatives attended for two days of discussion and adopted organizational rules, proclaimed the founding of a worldwide Hongmen association. First session President Li Zhipeng announced the construction of the Hongmen headquarters in Honolulu.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005231", "title": "Night of Knives", "text": "Night of Knives\n\nNight of Knives is the first novel of the Novels of the Malazan Empire series by Canadian author Ian Esslemont, set after the prologue, but before the main body of \"Gardens of the Moon\", the first novel in the \"Malazan Book of the Fallen\".\n\n\"Night of Knives\" takes place in the 24 hours leading up to the night of the \"\"\"Shadow Moon\", a night on which a prophecy promises the return of the Emperor. Kiska is a young and enterprising girl who knows the Malaz City inside out and yearns to escape the dreary island and into the Malazan military. On the other hand, Temper, former bodyguard to Dassem Ultor, the legendary First Sword of the Empire, wants to stay beyond notice of the powers now converging on the city. In the city, the mages of Malaz, much reduced since the cull, now face an almost impossible task as an ancient power draws close.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005238", "title": "Origin of the name Khuzestan", "text": "Origin of the name Khuzestan\n\nAlthough Herodotus and Xenophon referred to the entire region as Susiana, the name Khuzestan is what has been referred to the southwestern most province of Persia (Iran) from antiquity.\n\nIn some instances, sugar and sugar cane have been given as the meaning of Khuz. The fertile soil of Khuzestan has optimal potential for growing this plant, making excellent harvests for sugar cane possible here.\n\nHowever, most experts believe the name Khuzestan to be derived from \"Khūzī\", the name of the original Elamite people who inhabited the region, whose distinctive language reportedly survived until Sassanid times.\n\nEvery author of the early Islamic period, whether Arabic, Persian, or African, referred to the entire region as \"Ahvaz\". This is verified by referring to texts such as those by Tabari, Abolfazl Beyhaghi, Tarikh-i Sistan, and \"Safar nama\" of Naser Khosrow, among many others. Hamdollah Mostowfi in his \"Nozhat ul-Qolub\", for example, writes about Ardashir I in Ahvaz. The word \"Khuzestan\", however, seems to have been widely used to refer to the region by the 9th century.\n\nSome scholars believe Ahvaz and Khuzestan are related to the name \"Ooksin\", a city established during the era of the Elamite civilization, and are the altered forms of the words \"Ooks\", \"Ookz\", \"Hookz\", \"Huz\" and \"Khuz\". Iraj Afshar in his \"Nigāhī bih Khūzistān : majmū`ah´ī az awzā`-i tārīkhī, jughrāfiyā'ī, ijtimā`i, iqtisādī-i mintaqah\" states that \"Uxi\" was the Greek counterpart of the Elamite word Ūvja.\n\nAccording to Jules Oppert, the word \"Ūvja\", was pronounced as \"Xuz\" or \"Khuz\" in the Elamite language. The word Ūvja appears abundantly in many texts and on Achaemenid inscriptions at Naqsh-e Rustam, and on Darius's epigraphs at Persepolis and Susa among others Ūvja, or its Greek counterpart \"Uxi\", were names used to refer to the land or the peoples inhabiting the land of Khuzestan.\n\nFurthermore, Ibn Nadeem, in his book \"al-Fihrist\" (\"الفهرست\"), mentions that all the Median and Persian lands of antiquity spoke one language. In his book, which is the most credible account of spoken languages of Iran during the early Islamic era, he quotes the great scholar Abdullah Ibn al-Muqaffa:\n\nHe then adds that \"Khuzi\" is the unofficial language of the royalty and comes from Khuzestan.\n\nIn \"Majma-ul-Tawarikh wa al-Qesas\" (\"The Collection of histories and Tales\") written in 1126CE, Khuzestan appears with such names as \"Hajuestan\", \"Hobujestan\", and \"Ajar\", which seem to be derived from \"Hobujestan\" and \"Hujestan\" in Pahlavi language. According to Sir Henry Rawlinson, in Pahlavi, Ūvja is pronounced \"Hobuj\" and therefore both the names Ahvaz and Khuzestan derive their names from here.\n\nThe Old Persian word \"Hūjiya\" \"Elam\" appears abundantly in many texts and on Achaemenid inscriptions at Naqsh-e Rustam, and on Darius's epigraphs at Persepolis and Susa among others \"Hūjiya\", or its Greek counterpart \"Uxi\", were names used to refer to the land or the peoples inhabiting Susiana. In Middle Persian, \"Hūjiya\" \"Elam, Susiana Province\" became \"Huź\" \"Susiana\", and the modern form of this word is \"Xuz\". As with \"istan\", the common Persian ending \"-stan\" \"land, region\" was added at some point. The \"Old Persian: Grammar, Texts, Lexicon\" by Roland G. Kent of the American Oriental Society, lists the following chains of derivation:\n\nŪvja → Awaz → Xuz<br>\nŪvja → Ux → Xuz<br>\nŪvja → Xuz → Hobuj<br>\nŪvja → Hobuj → Xuz → Hoz<br>\nŪvja → Hobuj → Xuz → Hoz → Ahvaz\n\nWhereas in some Iranian dialects such as Luri and Bakhtiari (also based in and around Khuzestan), the sound \"h\" is sometimes used for pronouncing \"Kh\", the words \"oo\", \"hoo\" and \"Khuz\" have in the process of time been added to the suffix \"-estan\", and the word \"oojestan\" has gradually changed to \"Hujestan\", forming the word \"Khuzestan\". Such conversions derive from the fact that in ancient Persian dialects and in Pahlavi language, the sound \"oo\" was changeable to \"hoo\" as in such words like \"Oormazd\" --> \"Hoormazd\" or \"Ooshmand\" --> \"Hooshmand\". And \"Hoordad\" has also been pronounced \"Khordad\" and \"Khoortat\".\n\nMost Arabs such as the \"Bani Kaab\" tribe, came from the west and southwest of the Tigris and Euphrates outside of Khuzestan, beginning in the 15-16th centuries. During the succeeding centuries many more Arab tribes moved from southern Iraq to Khuzestan; as a result, Khuzestan gained the second name \"Arabistan\", and became extensively Arabized. \n\nIn 1441, Muhammad ibn Falah, founder and leader of the \"Msha'sha'iya\", initiated a wave of attacks on Khuzestan, and the cities of Hoveizeh, Khorramshahr, Ahvaz, and Susa started seeing large increases in Arab populations. The term \"Arabistan\" thus came into use to refer to the Arab populated areas of this region. At this time, many texts started using \"both\" Khuzestan and Arabistan as the region's name. Examples are \"Majalis Al-Mumineen\" written by Ghadhi Nurollah Shushtari in 1585, \"Giti Gosha\" by Mirza Muhammad Sadigh Musawi, \"Nasikh Al-Tawarikh\" by Lisan Malek Sepehr, \"Muntazam Naseri\" and \"Mar'at ul-Baladan\" by Sani ol molk, \"Sharh Waghi'a\" by Ismail Mirza Dorughi, and the Afsharid era work \"Jahan goshay-i Naderi\". The Safavid era account \"History of Alam Aray Abbasi\" speaks of dispatching troops to \"Khuzestan wa Arabistan\" during the 8th year of Shah Abbas' reign.\n\nThe name Arabistan, however, became more prevalent over time as the British became gradually involved in the Persian Gulf region. By the time of the Qajar Mozaffareddin Shah, the name Arabistan was meant to completely refer to all of Khuzestan.\n\nWith the centralized Pahlavi government of Iran gradually strengthening, Reza Shah restored the name of the province to its original in 1923.\n\nThe following is a list of sources that specifically use, describe, or discuss the word \"Khuzestan\". Almost all are written in the Arabic language.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005250", "title": "Donald Foster", "text": "Donald Foster\n\nDonald Foster may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2005256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005256", "title": "Moodymann", "text": "Moodymann\n\nKenny Dixon Jr., better known by his stage name Moodymann, is an American musician based in Detroit, Michigan. He is the owner of the record labels Mahogani Music and KDJ Records. He is a member of 3 Chairs.\n\nIn 1997, Moodymann released his debut album, \"Silentintroduction\", on Planet E Communications. It compiled the previously released tracks from his own KDJ Records. He released \"Mahogany Brown\" in 1998, \"Forevernevermore\" in 2000, and \"Silence in the Secret Garden\" in 2003.\n\nIn 2012, he released \"Picture This\" as a free download. It was followed by \"ABCD\" in 2013. In 2014, he released the self-titled album, \"Moodymann\".\n\nMoodymann is considered to have \"developed hybrid modes of recording and performance incorporating analog and digital media—the playing of 'real' instruments with 'pushing buttons live'.\"\n\nIn January 2019, Moodymann released a video on Instagram, which he later removed, showing the Highland Park police holding him at gunpoint in his parked car, on his property. The Highland Park police department released a statement saying that during the incident, Moodymann did not show proof of ownership of the property or even an ID, which led to the arrest. Moodymann was later released after an investigation showing that he was indeed the owner of the property.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005269", "title": "Petrarchan sonnet", "text": "Petrarchan sonnet\n\nThe Petrarchan sonnet is a sonnet form not developed by Petrarch himself, but rather by a string of Renaissance poets. Because of the structure of Italian, the rhyme scheme of the Petrarchan sonnet is more easily fulfilled in that language than in English. The original Italian sonnet form divides the poem's fourteen lines into two parts, the first part being an octave and the second being a sestet.\n\nThe rhyme scheme for the octave is typically ABBAABBA. The rhyme scheme means the last word of the line should rhyme with the pattern of ABBAABBA or other variants. The sestet is more flexible. Petrarch typically used CDECDE or CDCDCD for the sestet. Some other possibilities for the sestet include CDDCDD, CDDECE, or CDDCCD (as in Wordsworth's \"Nuns Fret Not at Their Convent's Narrow Room\" [a sonnet about sonnets]). This form was used in the earliest English sonnets by Wyatt and others. For background on the pre-English sonnet, see Robert Canary's web page, \"The Continental Origins of the Sonnet\". In a strict Petrarchan sonnet, the sestet does not end with a couplet (since this would tend to divide the sestet into a quatrain and a couplet). However, in Italian sonnets in English, this rule is not always observed, and CDDCEE and CDCDEE are also used. Additionally, the Crybin variant uses the rhyme scheme ABBA CDDC EFG EFG.\n\nThe octave and sestet have special functions in a Petrarchan sonnet. The octave's purpose is to introduce a problem, express a desire, reflect on reality, or otherwise present a situation that causes doubt or a conflict within the speaker's soul and inside an animal and object in the story. It usually does this by introducing the problem within its first quatrain (unified four-line section) and developing it in the second. The beginning of the sestet is known as the volta, and it introduces a pronounced change in tone in the sonnet; the change in rhyme scheme marks the turn. The sestet's purpose as a whole is to make a comment on the problem or to apply a solution to it. The pair are separate but usually used to reinforce a unified argument — they are often compared to two strands of thought organically converging into one argument, rather than a mechanical deduction. Moreover, Petrarch's own sonnets almost never had a rhyming couplet at the end as this would suggest logical deduction instead of the intended rational correlation of the form.\n\nPoets adopting the Petrarchan sonnet form often adapt the form to their own ends to create various effects. These poets do not necessarily restrict themselves to the metrical or rhyme schemes of the traditional Petrarchan form; some use iambic hexameter, while others do not observe the octave-sestet division created by the traditional rhyme scheme. Whatever the changes made by poets exercising artistic license, no \"proper\" Italian sonnet has more than five different rhymes in it.\n\nSir Thomas Wyatt and Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey are both known for their translations of Petrarch's sonnets from Italian into English. While Surrey tended to use the English sonnet form in his own work, reserving the Petrarchan form for his translations of Petrarch, Wyatt made extensive use of the Italian sonnet form in the poems of his that were not translation and adaptation work. As a result, he is often credited for integrating the Petrarchan sonnet into English vernacular tradition.\n\nThe form also gave rise to an \"anti-Petrarchan\" convention which may have revealed the mistress to be ugly and unworthy. The convention was also mocked, or adopted for alternative persuasive means by many of the Inns of Court writers during the Renaissance.\n\nThe sonnet is split in two groups: the \"octave\" or \"octet\" (of 8 lines) and the \"sestet\" (of 6 lines), for a total of 14 lines.\n\nThe octave (the first 8 lines) typically introduces the theme or problem using a rhyme scheme of ABBAABBA. The sestet (the last 6 lines) provides resolution for the poem and rhymes variously, but usually follows the schemes of CDECDE or CDCCDC.\n\nOctave - introduces the theme or problem\n\nSestet - solves the problem\n"}
{"id": "2005275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005275", "title": "George Thatcher", "text": "George Thatcher\n\nGeorge Thatcher (April 12, 1754 – April 6, 1824) was an American lawyer, jurist, and statesman from the Maine district of Massachusetts. His name sometimes appears as George Thacher. He was a delegate for Massachusetts to the Continental Congress in 1787 and 1788. He was an associate justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court from 1801 to 1824.\n\nThatcher was born April 12, 1754, in Yarmouth, Province of Massachusetts Bay. After private tutoring, he attended Harvard, graduating in 1776. He read law and was admitted to the bar in 1778, and then moved to York to open a practice. By 1782 he had settled in Biddeford.\n\nThatcher was named as one of the Massachusetts delegates to the Continental Congress in 1787. He wrote under the name \"Scribble Scrabble.\"\n\nHe was later elected a U.S. Congressman from the Maine district of Massachusetts, as a Pro-administration candidate in 1789 to 1792 and as a Federalist from 1794 to 1801.\n\nIn 1788 North Carolina passed a law allowing the capture and sale of any former slave who had been freed without court approval. Many freed African Americans fled the state to avoid being captured and sold back into slavery. Rev Absalom Jones drafted a petition on behalf of four freed slaves, the first group of African Americans to petition the U.S. Congress. The petition related to the 1793 Fugitive Slave Act and asked Congress to adopt “some remedy for an evil of such magnitude.”\n\nThe petition was presented on 30 January 1797 by U.S. Representative John Swanwick of Pennsylvania. Although Representative Thatcher argued that the petition should be accepted and referred to the Committee on the Fugitive Law, the House of Representatives declined to accept the petition by a vote of was 50 to 33.\n\nHe did not seek re-election in 1800. At the time he left the Congress, he was the last original Congressman still in office.\n\nThatcher accepted an appointment to a Massachusetts state court in 1792 and served until 1800 when he was appointed to the state's Supreme Judicial Court. During the organization of Maine's statehood in 1819, he was a member of the convention that created the new state's constitution. When statehood was achieved in 1820, he moved to Newburyport. He resigned from the court in January 1824, and retired to Biddeford.\n\nThatcher, an ardent Unitarian, helped to sponsor the creation of Bowdoin College so that Maine would have its own institution of higher education. For the college's first dozen years, he served as a regent.\n\nThatcher was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1814, and served on its board of councilors from 1815 to 1819.\n\nThatcher died at his home, and is buried in the Woodlawn Cemetery at Biddeford.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005282", "title": "Mikio Naruse", "text": "Mikio Naruse\n\nNaruse is known for imbuing his films with a bleak and pessimistic outlook. He made primarily \"shomin-geki\" (\"working-class drama\") films with female protagonists, portrayed by actresses such as Hideko Takamine, Kinuyo Tanaka, and Setsuko Hara. Because of his focus on family drama and the intersection of traditional and modern Japanese culture, his films are frequently compared with the works of Yasujirō Ozu. His reputation is just behind Akira Kurosawa, Kenji Mizoguchi, and Ozu in Japan and internationally; his work remains less well known outside Japan than theirs.\n\nAmong Naruse's most revered films are \"Late Chrysanthemums\" (1954), \"Floating Clouds\" (1955), and \"When a Woman Ascends the Stairs\" (1960). Akira Kurosawa referred to Naruse's style of melodrama as \"like a great river with a calm surface and a raging current in its depths\".\n\nMikio Naruse was born in Tokyo in 1905. For a number of years he worked at the Shochiku film company under Shiro Kido as a property manager and later as an assistant director. He was not permitted to direct a film at Shochiku until 1930, when he made his debut film, \"Mr. and Mrs. Swordplay\" (\"Chanbara fūfū\").\n\nNaruse's earliest extant work is \"Flunky, Work Hard\" (\"Koshiben gambare,\" also known as \"Little Man Do Your Best\") from 1931, where he combined melodrama with slapstick, trying to meet the demands set by Shochiku's Kamata studio, who wanted a mix of laughter and tears. In 1933, he quit Shochiku, and began working for Photo-Chemical Laboratories (later known as Toho).\n\nHis first major film was \"Wife! Be Like a Rose!\" (1935) (\"Tsuma yo Bara no Yo ni\"). It won the Kinema Junpo, and was the first Japanese film to receive theatrical release in the United States (where it was not well received). The film concerns a young woman whose father deserted his family many years before for a geisha. As so often in Naruse's films, the portrait of the \"other woman\" is nuanced and sympathetic: It turns out, when the daughter visits her father in a remote mountain village, that the second wife is far more suitable for him than the first. The daughter brings her father back with her in order to smooth the way for her own marriage, but the reunion with the first wife – a melancholy poet – is disastrous: They have nothing in common, and the father returns to wife number two.\n\nIn the war years, Naruse went through a slow breakup with his wife Sachiko Chiba (who had starred in \"Wife! Be Like a Rose!\"). Naruse himself claimed to have entered a period of severe depression as a result of this. In the postwar period he collaborated with others more often, less frequently writing his own scripts. Notable successes included \"Mother\" (1952) (\"Okasan\"), a realistic look at family life in the postwar period, which received theatrical distribution in France, and 1955's \"Floating Clouds\" (\"Ukigumo\"), a doomed love story based (like many of Naruse's films) on a novel by Fumiko Hayashi.\n\n\"When a Woman Ascends the Stairs\" (1960) (\"Onna ga kaidan o agaru toki\") tells the story of an aging bar hostess trying to adapt to modern times. \"Scattered Clouds\" (1967) (\"Midaregumo\") (a.k.a. \"Two in the Shadow\") was his last film, and is regarded as one of his greatest works. A tale of impossible love between a widow and the driver who accidentally killed her husband, it was made two years before his death.\n\nNaruse is known as particularly exemplifying the Japanese concept of \"mono no aware\", the awareness of the transience of things, and a gentle sadness at their passing. Naruse was shy and few of his closest collaborators knew him well. Hideko Takamine, who starred in a dozen of his films remembered \"[e]ven during the shooting of a picture, he would never say if anything was good, or bad, interesting or trite. He was a completely unresponsive director. I appeared in about 20 of his films, and yet there was never an instance in which he gave me any acting instructions.\"\n\nNaruse's films contain simple screenplays, with minimal dialogue, unobtrusive camera work, and low-key production design. Earlier films employ a more experimental, expressionist style, but he is best known for the style of his later work: deliberately slow and leisurely, designed to magnify the everyday drama of ordinary Japanese people’s trials and tribulations, and leaving maximum scope for his actors to portray psychological nuances in every glance, gesture, and movement.\n\nHis protagonists were usually women and his studies of female experience spanned a wide range of social milieux, professions and situations. A number of such films were adaptations of a single novelist, Fumiko Hayashi, whose pessimistic outlook seemed to match his own. From her work he made films about unrequited passion (\"Floating Clouds\" 1955), unhappy families and stale marriages (\"Repast\" 1951, \"Wife\" 1953, \"Lightning\" 1952) and one about the struggle against material hardship and social oppression (\"Late Chrysanthemums\" 1954).\n\nNaruse filmed economically, using money- and time-saving techniques that other directors shunned, such as shooting each actor delivering his or her lines of dialogue separately, and then splicing them together into chronological order in post-production (this reduced the amount of film wasted with each retake, and allowed a dialogue scene to be filmed with a single camera). Perhaps unsurprisingly, money is itself a major theme in these films, possibly reflecting Naruse's own childhood experience of poverty: Naruse is an especially mordant observer of the financial struggles within the family (as in \"Ginza Cosmetics\", 1951, where the female protagonist ends up supporting all her relatives by working in a bar, or \"A Wife's Heart\", 1956, where a couple is swindled out of a bank loan by the in-laws).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005288", "title": "National League of Cities", "text": "National League of Cities\n\nThe National League of Cities (NLC) is an advocacy organization in the United States that represents the country's 19,495 cities, towns, and villages along with 49 state municipal leagues. Created in 1924, it has evolved into a leading membership organization providing education, research, support, and advocacy to city leaders across America. Based in Washington, D.C., it is considered part of the 'Big Seven', a group of organizations that represent local and state government in the United States. The NLC provides training to municipal officials, holds conferences, lobbies and provides assistance to cities in educational issues. \n\nNLC was first founded as the American Municipal Association in Lawrence, Kansas, by a group of 10 state municipal leagues seeking greater coordination and representation in national affairs. In 1947, the organization opened its membership to individual cities with populations of 100,000 or more. That membership threshold was gradually moved downward, and in 1964, to signal the organization's growing emphasis on cities as members, the American Municipal Association changed its name to the current. By 1977, the population requirement was eliminated.\n\nToday, NLC represents over 1,900 member cities as a convening organization, support network, and representative in federal affairs. Leading priorities for the group include the economy, infrastructure, public safety, technology, education, and families.\n\nThe National League of Cities was founded in 1924 when 10 state municipal leagues banded together as the American Municipal Association. Over time, the organization's membership expanded to include individual cities of all sizes.\n\nOver its decades-long history, NLC has played a prominent role in shaping federal urban policy and defining city issues in America. It was at a 1970 convention that William Ruckelshaus, Administrator of the newly created Environmental Protection Agency, announced an order against Cleveland, Detroit, and Atlanta to clean up their inadequately treated sewage discharges into rivers, thereby helping send a message that the young agency meant business.\n\nNLC lobbies Congress on multiple issues, including city infrastructure, particularly transportation; supporting local energy efficiency and conservation efforts; strengthening and stabilizing the housing market; helping build stable families; supporting community safety; and reforming the country's immigration system. NLC's core lobbying principles include avoiding unfunded mandates, preserving local authority and protecting the intergovernmental partnership.\n\nThe Institute for Youth, Education, and Families is an entity within NLC which assists municipal officials in providing services on behalf of the children, youth and families in their communities. The YEF Institute offers resources in five core program areas, including early childhood success, education and afterschool, benefits for working families, youth participation in local government and child and youth safety.\n\nNLC hosts the annual Congress of Cities & Exposition, at which municipal officials participate in workshops, general sessions, networking opportunities and leadership training seminars. NLC's other yearly conference is the Congressional City Conference, held each March in Washington, D.C. Thousands of municipal officials discuss NLC legislative priorities with Members of Congress and the Administration, share promising practices, discuss policy and participate in leadership training opportunities.\n\nNLC's Center for City Solutions offers information, research, training, and educational materials on issues cities face in the present and future. Its programs include an applied research group along with the Rose Center for Public Leadership, the Sustainable Cities Institute, the City Innovation Ecosystems initiative, and the NLC University divisions. \n\nThe National League of Cities oversees a range of publications including the blog 'CitiesSpeak', the newsletter 'The Weekly' (formerly Nation's Cities Weekly), and several social media channels. NLC also produces original research on topics such as technology, education, municipal finance, public safety, and mayors' priorities.\n\nThe National League of Cities is overseen by a board of directors, which elects a president, vice president, and second vice president in annual elections. Each president serves a one-year term, typically choosing to focus on a single program or advocacy priority such as economic mobility or public safety. The current president of the NLC is Mark Stodola, mayor of Little Rock, Arkansas, who leads an initiative on the future of work.\nPast presidents of the NLC have included:\n\n\n\nEPA Alumni Association, Protecting the Environment, A Half Century of Progress – an overview of EPA's environmental protection efforts over 50 years\n\n"}
{"id": "2005290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005290", "title": "Saffron Burrows", "text": "Saffron Burrows\n\nSaffron Dominique Burrows (born 22 October 1972) is a British-American actress and model. Burrows has appeared in films such as \"Circle of Friends,\" \"Wing Commander,\" \"Deep Blue Sea,\" \"Gangster No. 1,\" \"Enigma,\" \"Troy,\" \"Reign Over Me\" and \"The Bank Job.\" On TV she has starred as Lorraine Weller on \"Boston Legal,\" Dr. Norah Skinner on \"My Own Worst Enemy,\" and Detective Serena Stevens on \".\" She appeared as Cynthia Taylor on the Amazon Video series \"Mozart in the Jungle.\"\n\nAn only child, Burrows was born in London, England. Both her parents are socialists. Her father is an architect and teacher; her mother is a teacher and a feminist. Burrows is 5'11\" tall, and had a successful modeling career after she was discovered in Covent Garden by the fashion photographer Beth Boldt.\n\nBurrows made her film debut in 1993 with a small role in Jim Sheridan's \"In the Name of the Father\". Her first significant acting roles came in 1995, as an ambitious young Irishwoman in \"Circle of Friends\". She appeared in Ngozi Onwurah's \"Welcome II The Terrordome\". Following this, she starred in the BBC production of Dennis Potter's \"Karaoke\" (1996). Subsequently, she appeared in \"Hotel de Love\", \"Lovelife\", \"Nevada\", \"One Night Stand\", and \"The Matchmaker\". In 1999 she appeared in Mike Figgis' experimental film \"The Loss of Sexual Innocence\", in which she played twins: one raised in England, the other in Italy. Burrows appeared in the thriller film \"Deep Blue Sea\" and later played the title role in a film of \"Miss Julie\", which premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nIn 1999 she appeared with Stellan Skarsgård in \"Timecode\" (2000), a split-screen digital experimental film shot in a single take with no edit. Burrows followed this film with \"Gangster No. 1\", starring opposite Malcolm McDowell, Paul Bettany and David Thewlis. She co-starred alongside Kate Winslet and Dougray Scott in Michael Apted's 1940s drama \"Enigma\". Tom Stoppard adapted the Robert Harris novel of the same name for the screen. Burrows would star in \"Tempted\", an improvised thriller set in New Orleans, opposite Burt Reynolds and Peter Facinelli.\n\nMike Figgis' ensemble feature \"Hotel\" followed, re-uniting Burrows with some colleagues from \"Timecode\", including Salma Hayek and Danny Huston in Venice, where she played the Duchess of Malfi. In 2002, she had a cameo role in Hayek's produced biopic \"Frida\". After that, she dedicated herself to stage work. She was directed by Deborah Warner at the Royal National Theatre in Jeanette Winterson's \"The Powerbook\". The play then toured, visiting the Theatre National Du Chaillot, Paris, and the Teatro Argentina, Rome. Burrows performed in Spanish in \"The Galindez File\", a film written by Spanish novelist Vazquez Montalban about a woman seeking the truth about the \"disappearance\" of a critic of the Dominican dictator Trujillo.\n\nIn 2004, she played the part of Andromache in \"Troy\". In January 2005, she created the role of Janey in the world premiere of \"Earthly Paradise\" at the Almeida Theatre. The play of a love triangle between Janey Morris; her husband William Morris, the writer and proponent of the Arts and Crafts movement; and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, the Pre-Raphaelite painter. Theatre critic Nicholas De Jongh said of her performance in \"The Earthly Paradise\" that \"Burrows takes to the stage like a swan to water ... She deserves no end of watching.\"\n\nOn 30 October 2005, she appeared on stage at the Old Vic theatre in London in a rehearsed reading of the 24-hour play \"Night Sky\", alongside Christopher Eccleston. In 2006, Burrows was the female lead in the New Zealand thriller \"Perfect Creature\". That same year, she worked with Chilean director Raoul Ruiz on \"Klimt\", his cinematic version of the life of Gustav Klimt. In this film, she played opposite John Malkovich as the artist's lover, a woman of many personalities and nationalities.\n\nShe performed in Hal Hartley's \"Fay Grim\". Onstage in 2006, Burrows starred opposite David Schwimmer in Neil Labute's world premiere of \"Some Girl(s)\" at the Gielgud theatre, London. She then starred opposite Don Cheadle and Adam Sandler in Mike Binder's \"Reign Over Me\". Burrows played the female lead roles in the Indian film thriller \"Broken Thread\", and in \"Dangerous Parking\", a drama directed by Peter Howitt. On television, Burrows played attorney Lorraine Weller on ABC's \"Boston Legal\" (Season 4) from 2007–08. She starred on NBC's 2008 series, \"My Own Worst Enemy\".\n\nIn 2008, Burrows starred in the independent film \"The Guitar\", Amy Redford's directorial debut, which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival. In 2008, she had a starring role as Martine Love in Roger Donaldson's heist film \"The Bank Job\". She played opposite Kevin Spacey in Jonas Pate's \"Shrink\". She has contributed to the \"Actors Come Clean for Congo\" video for the Raise Hope for Congo campaign, a campaign of the Enough Project, in support of the conflict mineral issue.\n\nIn 2010, she starred as Detective Serena Stevens on \"\", departing at the end of the ninth season. In September 2010, she took part in the documentary feature film \"The People Speak\", directed and produced by Colin Firth and Anthony Arnove, televised on the History Channel, linked with \"The People Speak\" (Film) – International. Burrows modeled for Marks & Spencer's autumn 2010 campaign for their Portfolio range. In 2012, Burrows performed opposite Rob Lowe in the political comedy \"Knife Fight\". She has participated in the \"24 Hour Plays\" in London, New York, and Los Angeles.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, Burrows joined the ranks of the Marvel Cinematic Universe on the ABC television show \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" where she played the S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Victoria Hand in a recurring role.\n\nShe starred in the Amazon Video show \"Mozart in the Jungle\" as Cynthia Taylor, a philandering cellist with the New York Symphony. The series ran for four seasons from 2014 to 2018.\n\nBurrows has written diaries, book reviews and newspaper and magazine articles for \"The Guardian\", \"The Independent\", and \"The Times\" and the \"New Statesman\".\n\nBurrows lived in Paris for five years as a teenager and French is her second language. She has performed in French on stage in Paris in \"The Powerbook\" and on French television. Burrows is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.\n\nBurrows is openly bisexual, and has said that she \"prefers the company of women.\" She was previously engaged to actor Alan Cumming in the 1990s, and dated director Mike Figgis for five years until 2002. She was also previously in a relationship with actress Fiona Shaw.\n\nBurrows married writer Alison Balian, her partner of six years, in August 2013. Burrows gave birth to their son in 2012, and their daughter in 2017.\n\nBurrows has expressed sympathy for European style social democracies and for French Socialist politician Ségolène Royal. She joined an anti-racism group when she was 11 years old and she went on to become the Vice President of the National Civil Rights Movement. Burrows is a campaigner for disabled rights and equality.\n\nIn 2009, Burrows became an American citizen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005292", "title": "Minty Alley", "text": "Minty Alley\n\nMinty Alley is a groundbreaking novel written by Trinidadian writer C. L. R. James in the late 1920s, and published in London by Secker & Warburg in 1936, as West Indian literature was starting to flourish. It was the first novel by a black West Indian to be published in England, and \"earned much praise for its sensitive portrayal of the poor, especially poor women, and for its playful use of the folkloric trickster tradition in a modern context.\"\n\nAccording to Christian Høgsbjerg, James later noted: \"'the basic constituent of my political activity and outlook' was already set out in ‘the \"human\" aspect’ of \"Minty Alley\", the unpublished novel he wrote in 1928 about the working people of one 'barrack-yard' he stayed in that summer.\" James arrived in the United Kingdom in 1932, intent on a career as a writer and bearing the manuscript of \"Minty Alley\", and found employment writing about cricket for the \"Manchester Guardian\". He soon became swept up in politics, writing books about the Bolshevik and Haitian revolutions, leaving his literary ambitions behind. \"Minty Alley\" was his only novel. James died in London in 1989.\n\nA new edition of the novel was issued by New Beacon Books in 1971, and in 1997 the University Press of Mississippi published a US edition.\n\nWriting in \"Kirkus Reviews\" on the 80th anniversary of \"Minty Alley\"s publication, Gregory McNamee says: \"In that complex though short novel, James condenses a whole world of class and ethnic differences within the short street for which the book is named, with servants and working people scrambling to make a living while the somewhat better-off residents of the alley feud and scheme among themselves. No matter what station they hold, the people of Minty Alley do best when they work together. They all agree, though, that elsewhere is better than there, the best elsewhere of all lying far over the horizon at the end of the packet steamer route to New York City.\"\n\nA dramatisation of \"Minty Alley\", by Margaret Busby and produced by Pam Fraser Solomon (with a cast that included Doña Croll, Angela Wynter, Martina Laird, Nina Wadia, Julian Francis, Geff Francis, Vivienne Rochester and Burt Caesar), was first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 12 June 1998, winning a Commission for Racial Equality (CRE) \"Race in the Media Award\" in 1999.\n\n\n\nSet in Port of Spain, Trinidad, the book opens with Mr. Haynes deciding to rent part of a house situated nearby on the title street—a very short alley. His mother has died, and he is trying to make the best out of an otherwise dull life. Figuring out how to pay for the house, he arrives there the following day, meeting Maisie and her aunt, Mrs. Rouse, who has a small room to let. Haynes agrees to use it after hearing of the conditions and the price—$2.50.\n\nEarly next morning, Haynes begins transferring his goods to his new home. Back at that residence, he is introduced to his new landlord, Mr. Benoit.\n\nOn the first Saturday evening of his stay, he meets a sick Miss Atwell and an East Indian servant named Philomen, as well as a cake-seller named John. Later on, Mrs. Rouse arrives with her new lodger, a nurse named Jackson, and the rest in the house engage in a lot of conversation soon after.\n\nYet after such good times, Haynes is bored and wants to move out of No. 2 in a month, in which case he will leave the rest up to Ella. The next morning, while Rouse and niece are attending Mass, he secretly encounters a brief love affair between Benoit and the lodger nurse. As days go by, that nurse becomes the dominant factor of life at No. 2, keeping the entire house in full shape.\n\nOne morning, a stay-at-home Haynes witnesses Sonny, Nurse Jackson's son, being beaten by the landlord over his prize for winning a marbles game: a kiss for his opponent, Maisie. After a caning from the nurse, he is chased by her all the way to Haynes’ room, where he hides from her. Then, as she calls him out like she would a dog, Haynes misses his chance to save Sonny, who is intent on staying with him for protection. But upon a further caning by Sonny’s mother, the bachelor decides he must move back to Ella, even with an injured foot.\n\nThat evening, the nurse comes by to check on his foot and have it treated—the first of such a series of twice-daily visits. Only some days later does his foot become any better.\n\nAnother few days pass, and the people at No. 2 are preparing to avoid the local bailiff and Mr. Brown from visiting their home. Luckily, both are nowhere to be seen; but word of the two crops up in their conversations for days afterward.\n\nBecause of a fight between her and Mrs. Rouse, the nurse soon leaves the house. Troubled times thus begin herein: another morning later, a policeman asks for Aucher, who turns out to be a thief; and quarrels between Benoit and Mrs. Rouse erupt for nights at a time, all due to the nurse's departure and her love for the landlord. Even the two try to murder each other, and for that action Haynes decides strongly to move out.\n\nSurprisingly, Nurse Jackson passes her examinations, thanks partly to Benoit's help, but nothing more than her affair with the landlord is talked of for days at No. 2. More surprisingly, they both have been engaged, and news of their romance and upcoming marriage crops up regularly soon after.\n\nTheir wedding takes place at nine on a Sunday morning, at the start of the month, but the people at the house are getting impatient about Miss Atwell's arrival from the ceremony. When she returns at eleven, she tells them everything that happened during that ceremony (the centre of attention being the nurse's expensive white fugi dress).\n\nLater on, No. 2 is put up for mortgage, but as an ailing Mrs. Rouse is warned by Haynes, it will take eight years before the house can fully be paid off, even with her cake business on the decline. With Mrs. Rouse, Haynes learns how much the house has fared from the time it was built at the start of the First World War.\n\nThen, upon visiting her, he learns of Ella's sickness and that a friend will replace her once she is taken to her mother in the country.\n\nDecember comes, and Haynes, meeting Benoit for the first time since he married the nurse, is nervous to see how much he has changed. It is rumoured that things have not been going well for the couple, and the landlord has had no new job out of this.\n\nIn spite of their recent woes, Christmas goes on cheerfully for the residents of the house. During the holiday, a freed Aucher helps the rest of them as they work harder than ever to keep No. 2 clean, while Haynes decides to spend some time at the seaside for his health's sake.\n\nOn Boxing Day, the company at the house, Haynes included, delight themselves with an enjoyable lunch, after which Miss Atwell honours Haynes in a short speech. The bachelor's reply turns out to be \"the speech of his life\".\n\nOn New Year's Eve, Miss Atwell pays Haynes a visit, telling him Ella is still sick. On the New Year's holiday the following day, he pays Mrs. Rouse $20 in advance (a plan he had made with Maisie) for the sake of remaining at the house via boarding.\n\nThree days later, he learns of the now-recovered headmistress' return to town, even though she has not come to No. 2, because Haynes feels that he does not want her. For another two or three days, he ponders on what has recently come of him.\n\nIn the midst of a quarrel between Rouse and niece, over Haynes' alienation from Ella, the bachelor is refunded his boarding fee. Now he wants to strike out vulgarly against them both.\n\nLate one afternoon, while on a tramcar in town, Haynes encounters the nurse being arrested for stealing clothes. He hurries home to tell everyone at No. 2 about it, but all of them are hearing Philomen's account of the event as he arrives. Then Haynes reads a letter from Nurse Jackson addressed to Rouse, in which the nurse defames Rouse's past relationship with Benoit.\n\nWith Jackson on bail, gloom hangs over No. 2 once again. On the morning of her trial, everyone but Aucher is in Court to hear of the nurse's fate: she is fined £15 or three months in prison. (This is the last time Haynes will ever see her again in person.) Later, due to accusations about her husband living with another woman, the nurse and her son leave for the United States.\n\nAfter the case, Haynes finds a friend—and lover—in Rouse's niece. But she wants to avoid the presence of her aunt's secret admirer, Sgt. Parkes (a father of six), for fear of a do-over of Rouse's former affairs with Benoit. She does so on the Friday morning of his visit, and for this, Haynes gets upset over Maisie. Later that afternoon, Mrs. Rouse tells him, in distaste, that Benoit has returned by surprise. And at dusk, Aucher tells them the sergeant (whom Rouse is not interested in seeing) has come back.\n\nFor the next several weeks, Mrs. Rouse tries not to let her house be sold, without Mr. Rojas' help, to a woman who is willing to buy the property.\n\nOne day, nearly a year after his debut at No. 2, Haynes stunningly finds the major compartments of the kitchen have moved to outside for the sake of convenience. Then, he discovers just how much Philomen has changed in weight and appearance. This is due to heavy work and a love affair with Sugedo, which makes Maisie develop hatred for the servant. To avoid further trouble with Rouse, she is forced to move out of her home and live with her new employer, Gomes. A tearful farewell takes place at No. 2, whence Mrs. Rouse also cries for her before she leaves; Haynes is a part of it as well.\n\nJust when life at No. 2 begins anew without Philomen, so its trials and tribulations resume: Maisie and some others are soon accused by Mrs. Rouse for being involved in a string of petty thefts, rising by the score. It comes to a climax one Sunday morning when Mrs. Rouse finds a dollar bill belonging to Haynes, with her niece unwilling to admit to this theft. She disappears from Haynes' sight the rest of the day.\n\nAfter spending a worryfree August by the seaside while on leave, Haynes returns to No. 2 on the final day of the month—a rainy Sunday—and finds out that nothing has changed. As Mrs. Rouse calls for Maisie, right before Haynes and a few lodgers, the niece speaks out against her being treated by her aunt, and also against her aunt's past love life with Benoit.\n\nThus the ultimate quarrel between the two ensues on a now-muddy yard, during which Mrs. Rouse throws away all of her niece's goods out into the mire. Supporting his now almost-defeated lover, Haynes is angry at her aunt, while the niece, in revenge, ruins some of her aunt's attire amid her own outfits.\n\nAngry at Mrs. Rouse, she sneaks away from the rest of the lodgers. Four nights later, Haynes meets her at a nearby park for the last time; she tells the bachelor of her plans for New York City. Another two days pass before she heads to the Big Apple by boat. Life at No. 2, for Haynes, will never be the same without her, and thus he cannot afford to stay there.\n\nAs September comes to an end, Rouse informs him that the former landlord has suffered a stroke, which she is not sorry to see him get. Both head to the Government Hospital that Sunday night to make sure he is there, since they are unable to visit him. The two of them leave, walking up the street—Rouse to her church for prayers, and Haynes to No. 2, where he and Miss Atwell discuss about Benoit's past and present. Rouse joins them both after her session has finished.\n\nLate that same night, Haynes decides that he should end his life at the house, for all the effects that Maisie's immigration has left on him. Next morning, 22 September, he wakes up uneasily to the news of McCarthy Benoit's death: this event, in turn, causes regular life at No. 2 to come to an end.\n\nEntering October, Haynes finds new lodgings with Ella's help, and this leaves Rouse and Atwell as the caretakers of the house before it can legally be sold. (Gomes [Haynes' new neighbour] and Mr. Rojas are taking over Rouse's declining cake business.)\n\nThough his visits are less frequent in time to come, bachelor Haynes often passes by No. 2, thinking of all that used to happen there. At the end of the novel, a family of five—husband, wife and three children—happen to be its new residents.\n\n\n,"}
{"id": "2005299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005299", "title": "Esquilax", "text": "Esquilax\n"}
{"id": "2005300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005300", "title": "Bliss (short story)", "text": "Bliss (short story)\n\nBliss is a modernist short story by Katherine Mansfield first published in 1918. It was published in the \"English Review\" in August 1918 and later reprinted in \"Bliss and Other Stories\".\n\nThe story follows a dinner party given by Bertha Young and her husband Harry. The writing shows Bertha depicted as a happy soul, though quite naive about the world she lives in and those closest to her. The story opened up a lot of questions, about deceit, about knowing oneself and also about the possibility of homosexuality at the start of the 20th century. The story gives us a bird's eye view of the dinner party, which is attended by a couple, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Knight, who are close friends to Bertha and Harry. Guest, Eddie Warren, is an effeminate character, who adds an interesting mix to someone who Bertha is mysteriously drawn to for reasons unknown to her at the start. The interesting thing is that Bertha's husband is presented to the reader as Bertha perceives him in her mind. Because Bertha is so naive, the reader first gets the impression that Harry is a crude, disinterested person who has a strong dislike for Pearl by his conversational tone and curtness towards her as the conversation unfolds. As the dinner party progresses, Bertha questions her own interest and fascination towards Pearl. The fact that Eddie, who is most likely homosexual, is present, lends an air to the possibility that Bertha's interest in Pearl is more than a platonic feeling one has towards a friend of the same sex. It is only after Bertha analyzes her feelings towards Pearl that she realizes that the connection she feels with Pearl is their mutual attraction for Harry, and coming out of her \"blissful\" reverie she makes the discovery that Harry and Pearl are having an affair. The title to this story alludes to the sentiment that ignorance is bliss. The story leaves the question about whether it is best to live blissfully ignorant of the truth or live with the knowledge of a harsh reality.\n\n\n to each other when alone or in the company of close friends as \"Mug\" and \"Face\"; a playwright and an interior designer, respectively.\n\nPearl is positively characterized by Bertha's thoughts and feelings towards her. Harry seemingly despises her, but since the story is told through the eyes of Bertha, the reader is incapable of seeing Harry's deceit. Bertha possibly has homoerotic feelings towards Pearl, as she reckons that it is Pearl who seems to inspire the bliss within her, and also the newfound sexual desire towards her own husband. These thoughts induce the reader to ponder on the implications of being homosexual in the early 20th century.\n\nBertha sees the blooming pear tree in the garden as a symbol of her happiness and her friendship with Pearl. However, when Bertha's mood changes rapidly, in the end, the tree remains the same, showing the error in Bertha's perception of a connection. (\"But the pear tree was as lovely as ever and as full of flower and as still.\")\n\nThe pear tree has also been described as phallic in nature and referring to Harry himself; at one point the pear tree is said to be growing towards the moon, the moon having been compared to Pearl at an earlier point in the story. This is said to potentially symbolize Harry's lust for Pearl. Some people think that the pear tree symbolizes the whole idea of being blissful, and how ignorance itself could be bliss.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005308", "title": "Palermo Anno Uno", "text": "Palermo Anno Uno\n\nPalermo Anno Uno (\"Palermo Year One\") is an Italian anti-mafia organization, based in Palermo, Sicily. It is an umbrella organization for different NGOs opposing organized crime. Palermo Anno Uno was founded after the massive demonstrations all over Sicily following the murder of Giovanni Falcone in May 1992. \n\nFor its efforts against organized crime it was awarded the 1996 Rafto Prize.\n"}
{"id": "2005317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005317", "title": "Strathcona Park (Ottawa)", "text": "Strathcona Park (Ottawa)\n\nStrathcona Park is a large park in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. It lies on the west bank of the Rideau River and marks the eastern edge of the Sandy Hill neighbourhood.\n\nThe area of the park was originally the swampy floodplain of the river, and was impossible to build on. The site first became home of the Dominion Rifle Range, where soldiers had trained before departing for the Second Boer War. This history is preserved in the name of Range Road, which runs along the west of the park. The area was turned into a park by the Ottawa Improvement Commission between 1904 and 1907. It was named after Lord Strathcona, a Canadian businessman and politician who had financed his own regiment in the Boer War.\n\nThe most prominent feature of the park is the fountain standing atop the hill that was donated by Lord Strathcona in 1909, sculpted by Mathurin Moreau. The park's original design was a classic example of English public park design. It contained a pair of small ponds, gazebos, and Ottawa's first golf course. In the 1940s, the ponds were filled in due to their expense, and replaced with a wading pool. A baseball diamond was constructed at the southern end of the park in the 1920s and for many years was Ottawa's main venue for the sport.\n\nThe banks of the Rideau were once a popular swimming area, but today there is enough pollution, or perception thereof, to make this unpopular. During the summer the water level is low enough to ford the river and cross to Riverain Park in Vanier (although the Adàwe Crossing bridge, opened in December 2015, makes fording the river unnecessary). Just to the south of Strathcona Park is Dutchy's Hole Park and Robinson Field. In winter, the park, with its large hill at the northern end, is a popular site for tobogganing and making snowboard jumps.\n\nThe park remained under the control of the OIC successor agency the National Capital Commission until 1987 when it did not renew its lease with the city. Since then it has been a municipally managed park. In the early 1990s, the park was refurbished by the city. One of the most noted additions was the play structure designed by artist Stephen Brathwaite. Mr. Brathwaite designed a structure to look like ruins, inspired by Mackenzie King's ruin garden at Kingsmere. The structure was assembled out of blocks of stone that had been part of the parliament buildings, the Chateau Laurier, and other prominent Ottawa structures.\n\nSince 1986, the park has been home to Odyssey Theatre, a professional company that presents open air plays each summer on a stage at the northeast corner of the park. Odyssey Theatre's unique performances of classical plays and original creations are inspired by the Italian Commedia dell’Arte and incorporate international forms of puppetry, clowning, and dance-theatre.\n\nIn July 2014, the city of Ottawa began construction of a pedestrian and cyclist bridge across the Rideau River connecting the Rideau River Eastern Pathway at Donald Street with Strathcona Park and Somerset Street East.\n\nThe park is surrounded by a series of large homes that once housed the elite of Ottawa. Today they are mostly embassies and the area around the park is often called Ottawa's Embassy Row. Perched above the park is the Russian embassy, formerly that of the Soviet Union.\n"}
{"id": "2005320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005320", "title": "Mainline Publications", "text": "Mainline Publications\n\nMainline Publications, also called Mainline Comics, was a short-lived, 1950s American comic book publisher established and owned by Jack Kirby and Joe Simon.\n\nWith the 1950s backlash against comics, led by the psychiatrist Fredric Wertham, and propagated during the televised debates about comics leading to juvenile delinquency, as part of the Kefauver hearings, several publishing houses folded. This caused a problem for the printers. As Joe Simon detailed, \"Comic book publishers were dropping out of the business in wholesale numbers. The printers grew frantic. It was a necessity of their business that the presses keep running. When the presses were silent, printing companies still had to pay overhead, so they were more than willing to back a new comics organization if it showed promise.\"\n\nTo serve as business manager for their Mainline Publications, Inc., they brought in Crestwood Publications office manager Nevin Fidler, who knew the mechanics of distributors and other necessary vendors, offering him a piece of the company. While keeping their hand in at Crestwood to fulfill their contract, Simon and Kirby invested their savings in their new company, working with veteran paper and printing broker George Dougherty, Jr. The two had long wanted to self-publish, and they further wished to create comics for the adults of the 1950s who had read comics as children in the 1940s.\n\nAs Simon recalled,\nThey set up shop in late 1953 or early 1954, subletting space from their friend Al Harvey's Harvey Publications at 1860 Broadway. Mainline published four titles: the Western \"Bullseye: Western Scout\"; the war comic \"Foxhole\", since EC Comics and Atlas Comics were having success with war comics, but Mainline's was promoted as being \"written and drawn by actual veterans\"; \"In Love\", as their earlier romance comic \"Young Love\" was still being widely imitated; and the crime comic \"Police Trap\", which claimed to be based on genuine accounts by law-enforcement officials.\n\nDespite Mainline's dissimilarity to the beleaguered EC and other companies then under constant attack, copies of \"Bullseye\" and \"Foxhole\" were reportedly used as exhibits by Wertham in the Senate hearings against comics, and seen by millions through the hearings' nationwide television coverage.\n\nIn an attempt to save on the cost of original artwork for a story in Crestwood's \"Young Love\", Simon recycled an earlier Crestwood story by providing a new story and title to fit the existing art. This was spotted by a Crestwood employee, and legal advice taken over possible repercussions. Crestwood \"took up the matter with their attorney [who] informed Crestwood that there was nothing in the contract that specified what kind of book we were obliged to turn in — as long as we turned in a book on schedule. That didn't satisfy the publishers, who naturally turned more hostile. They continued to hold off paying us while we grew increasingly desperate.\" In response, Simon and Kirby arranged in November 1954 to audit Crestwood, leading to a meeting between, on one side, Simon, Kirby, their accountant Bernard Gwirtzman and the attorney Gwirtzman chose, Morris Eisenstein; and on the other Crestwood publishers Teddy Epstein and Paul Bleier as well as general manager M. R. Reese.\n\nEisenstein demanded monies owed his clients by \"Crestwood, Feature Publications, and Headline Publications, among others,\" entailing \"advances, royalties, and other monies for \"Fighting American\", \"Young Brides\", \"Black Magic\", \"Young Love\", and \"Young Romance\".\" Epstein countered that all monies had been paid, and no royalties withheld, so Gwirtzman clarified that the claimed funds derived largely from overseas sales, and that over the previous seven years the total was around $130,000. Crestwood's attorney responded that the company could not pay that much, and, were it to go to court, \"would simply close down.\" Offered a $10,000 settlement and the recently delayed payments, Simon and Kirby returned to working on Mainline, but under increasingly strained circumstances. Even the Simon/Kirby relationship was now fraught, the two \"barely [speaking] while working in the same room.\"\n\nWith the continuing attacks by Wertham, Senator Estes Kefauver, and others, publishers continued to fold \"and the number of comics published dropped from 650 to 250.\" Carmine Infantino, a friend of Kirby's who worked for National Comics, the future DC Comics, recalled that National publisher Jack Liebowitz, Atlas Comics publisher Martin Goodman, \"and the people from Archie <nowiki>[</nowiki>MLJ Comics<nowiki>]</nowiki>, got together and created the Comics Code, which promised parents they would have no more blood and stuff like that.\" The advent of the Code effectively gutted EC Comics and threatened the comics industry generally. Distributor Leader News \"no longer had enough money to advance to small companies like Mainline\", and with its implosion brought about the end of Simon and Kirby's company in late 1956.\n\nThe unpublished materials for Mainline's titles were sold to Charlton Comics, which published them and, in some cases, continued the titles under new names. With the demise of Mainline, the longstanding partnership between Simon and Kirby also ended, although they would collaborate on a few more comics. Simon left comics for a time to take up a role in advertising, and Kirby returned to National Comics, taking with him, with Simon's blessing, \"the final project of the Simon & Kirby team\", \"Challengers of the Unknown\", co-created with writers Dick and Dave Wood. The non-superpowered adventuring quartet appeared in National's \"Showcase\" #6 (Feb. 1957) and eventually in its own series.\n\nMainline published four titles: \n"}
{"id": "2005328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005328", "title": "List of school districts in Minnesota", "text": "List of school districts in Minnesota\n\n"}
{"id": "2005331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005331", "title": "UMAC", "text": "UMAC\n\nIn cryptography, a message authentication code based on universal hashing, or UMAC, is a type of message authentication code (MAC) calculated choosing a hash function from a class of hash functions according to some secret (random) process and applying it to the message. The resulting digest or fingerprint is then encrypted to hide the identity of the hash function used. As with any MAC, it may be used to simultaneously verify both the \"data integrity\" and the \"authenticity\" of a message.\n\nA specific type of UMAC, also commonly referred to just UMAC, is specified in RFC 4418, it has provable cryptographic strength and is usually a lot less computationally intensive than other MACs. UMAC's design is optimized for 32-bit architectures with SIMD support, with a performance of 1 CPU cycle per byte (cpb) with SIMD and 2 cpb without SIMD. A closely related variant of UMAC that is optimized for 64-bit architectures is given by VMAC, which has been submitted to the IETF as a draft () but never gathered enough attention for becoming a standardized RFC.\n\nLet's say the hash function is chosen from a class of hash functions H, which maps messages into D, the set of possible message digests. This class is called universal if, for any distinct pair of messages, there are at most |H|/|D| functions that map them to the same member of D.\n\nThis means that if an attacker wants to replace one message with another and, from his point of view the hash function was chosen completely randomly, the probability that the UMAC will not detect his modification is at most 1/|D|.\n\nBut this definition is not strong enough — if the possible messages are 0 and 1, D={0,1} and H consists of the identity operation and \"not\", H is universal. But even if the digest is encrypted by modular addition, the attacker can change the message and the digest at the same time and the receiver wouldn't know the difference.\n\nA class of hash functions H that is good to use will make it difficult for an attacker to guess the correct digest \"d\" of a fake message \"f\" after intercepting one message \"a\" with digest \"c\". In other words,\n\nneeds to be very small, preferably 1/|\"D\"|.\nIt is easy to construct a class of hash functions when \"D\" is field. For example, if |\"D\"| is prime, all the operations are taken modulo |\"D\"|. The message \"a\" is then encoded as an \"n\"-dimensional vector over \"D\" (\"a\", \"a\", ..., \"a\"). \"H\" then has |\"D\"| members, each corresponding to an (\"n\" + 1)-dimensional vector over \"D\" (\"h\", \"h\", ..., \"h\"). If we let\n\nwe can use the rules of probabilities and combinatorics to prove that\n\nIf we properly encrypt all the digests (e.g. with a one-time pad), an attacker cannot learn anything from them and the same hash function can be used for all communication between the two parties. This may not be true for ECB encryption because it may be quite likely that two messages produce the same hash value. Then some kind of initialization vector should be used, which is often called the nonce. It has become common practice to set \"h\" = \"f\"(nonce), where \"f\" is also secret.\n\nNotice that having massive amounts of computer power does not help the attacker at all. If the recipient limits the amount of forgeries it accepts (by sleeping whenever it detects one), |\"D\"| can be 2 or smaller.\n\nThe following C function generates a 24 bit UMAC. It assumes that codice_1 is a multiple of 24 bits, codice_2 is not longer than codice_1 and codice_4 already contains the 24 secret bits e.g. f(nonce). nonce does not need to be contained in codice_2.\n\n/* DUBIOUS: This does not seem to have anything to do with the (likely long) RFC\nvoid UHash24 (uchar *msg, uchar *secret, size_t len, uchar *result)\n      s3 «= 1;\n\n/* This is the same thing, but grouped up (generating better assembly and stuff).\nvoid UHash24Ex (uchar *msg, uchar *secret, size_t len, uchar *result)\n\n    /* Fetch new secret for every three bytes. */\n\nFunctions in the above unnamed strongly universal hash-function family uses \"n\" multiplies to compute a hash value.\n\nThe NH family halves the number of multiplications, which roughly translates to a two-fold speed-up in practice. For speed, UMAC uses the NH hash-function family. NH is specifically designed to use SIMD instructions, and hence UMAC is the first MAC function optimized for SIMD.\n\nThe following hash family is formula_4-universal:\n\nwhere\n\n\nPractically, NH is done in unsigned integers. All multiplications are mod 2^\"w\", all additions mod 2^\"w\"/2, and all inputs as are a vector of half-words (formula_6-bit integers). The algorithm will then use formula_7 multiplications, where formula_8 was the number of half-words in the vector. Thus, the algorithm runs at a \"rate\" of one multiplication per word of input.\n\nRFC 4418 does a lot to wrap NH to make it a good UMAC. The overall UHASH (\"Universal Hash Function\") routine produces a variable length of tags, which corrsponds to the number of iterations (and the total lengths of keys) needed in all three layers of its hashing. Several calls to an AES-based key derivation function is used to provide keys for all three keyed hashes.\n\nIn RFC 4418, NH is rearranged to take a form of:\nThis definition is designed to encourage programmers to use SIMD instructions on the accumulation, since only data with four indices away are likely to not be put in the same SIMD register, and hence faster to multiply in bulk. On a hypothetical machine, it could simply translate to:\n\nmovq $0, regY ; Y = 0\nmovq $0, regI ; i = 0\nloop:\nadd     reg1, regM, regI ; reg1 = M + i\nadd     reg2, regM, regI\nvldr.4x32 vec1, reg1 ; load 4x32bit vals from memory *reg1 to vec1\nvldr.4x32 vec2, reg2\nvmul.4x64   vec3, vec1, vec2 ; vec3 = vec1 * vec2\nuaddv.4x64 reg3, vec3 ; horizontally sum vec3 into reg3\nadd regY, regY, reg3 ; regY = regY + reg3\nadd regI, regI, $8\ncmp regI, regT\njlt loop\n\n"}
{"id": "2005338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005338", "title": "Juliet Stuart Poyntz", "text": "Juliet Stuart Poyntz\n\nJuliet Stuart Poyntz (originally 'Points') (25 November 1886 – 1937) was an American suffragist, feminist, trade unionist and communist. As a student and university teacher, Poyntz espoused many radical causes and went on to become a co-founder of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA). Later she began working as an intelligence agent for the Soviet Union, travelling secretly to Moscow just as some of her comrades were being executed in Joseph Stalin's Great Purge, after which she resigned from the party. This is widely assumed to have led to her unexplained disappearance in New York City in June 1937 as the likely victim of an assassination squad, either because she had been associating with Trotskyists or because she was planning to write an exposé of the Soviet system.\n\nJuliet Poyntz was born on November 25, 1886, in Omaha, Nebraska. Her family moved to Jersey City, New Jersey, not long before she entered Barnard College. She was a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR).\n\nPoyntz moved to New York City as a young adult, where she earned degrees at Barnard College in 1907. She was class treasurer as a freshman, class president as a sophomore, secretary of the Barnard Union, and finally president of the Undergraduate Association and chairman of the student council as a senior. She served as editor-in-chief of Barnard's \"Mortarboard\" yearbook, and was a member of the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority, the Philosophy Club, the Classical Club, the Athletic Association, the Christian Association, and the Sophomore Dance Committee. In 1904, she acted \"Casting the Boomerang,\" at the Brinckerhoff Theatre (now Minor Latham Playhouse). In 1905, Poyntz took part in Barnard's third annual Greek Games, where she recited the \"Invocation to the Gods\" and tied first place in wrestling. She partook in the Interclass Debate (class of 1906 versus class of 1907). In her senior year, she was voted most popular both in the college and for 1907. She was valedictorian of her class and was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa. By graduation in June 1907, her interests had expanded from suffragism and feminism to trade unionism, labor rights, and socialism.\n\nFrom 1907 to 1909, Poyntz was \"Special Agent for the U.S. Immigration Commission,\" working in Chicago, Milwaukee, Philadelphia, Utica (New York), Lawrence (Massachusetts), and other cities. She joined the Socialist Party of America in 1909.\n\nShe taught at Barnard College for the 1909–1910 academic year, when she was an assistant to history professor James T. Shotwell, who was well known for his liberal and pacifist views.\n\nShe received her A.M. degree from Columbia University.\n\nIn 1912, she wrote Barnard's Class Book, \"I am still a woman's suffragist or worse still a Feminist and also a Socialist (also of the worst brand).\" She began working in the labor reform movement in 1913. She was instrumental in labor-Left reform organizations such as the US Immigration Commission, the American Association for Labor Legislation, and the Rand School of Social Science.\n\nIn 1915, she became education director of the Worker's University of Local 25 of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union (ILGWU) under committee chair Elias Lieberman. Several other New York locals and the Rand School joined for special courses in trade unionism. In 1917, she became educational director for the entire ILGWU. In 1918, she left the ILGWU. She continued to work within the Socialist Party-oriented ILGWU after siding with the fledgling Communist Party USA. During the 1920s, Poyntz was on the staff of the Friends of the Soviet Union and International Labor Defense.\n\nIn November 1926, she ran for New York State Comptroller and in November 1928 for New York State Attorney General, both times on the Workers Party ticket.\n\nShe later quit her outside work in favor of intelligence activities for the Soviet OGPU during the \"Third Period\".\n\nAccording to a book by Benjamin Gitlow, a founding member of the CPUSA, Poyntz was a delegate to several consecutive American Communist Party conventions, and was a member of the Party's Central Executive Committee, besides being on New York's District Executive Committee. She had gone to China on a Comintern (Communist International) mission, and had dropped out of the CPUSA in 1934 in order to work for the OGPU (Soviet military secret police) in gathering scientific information for the Soviet Union. In 1936, Poyntz secretly travelled to Moscow to receive further instructions from Soviet authorities, and was seen there in the company of George Mink (alias Minkoff), an American later implicated in the disappearance of several Trotkskyists during the Spanish Civil War. While there, Poyntz witnessed the Great Purge instigated by Stalin, in which people she had known and worked with were killed. She returned to the US disillusioned and unwilling to continue spying for the OGPU (later the NKVD).\n\nPoyntz disappeared after leaving the American Woman's Association Clubhouse at 353 West 57th Street in Manhattan, New York City on the evening of June 3, 1937. A police investigation turned up no clues to her fate, and her belongings, all of her clothing, and hand luggage in her room appeared to be untouched which suggested that she had not intended to leave the building for very long.\n\nIn early 1938, Carlo Tresca, a leading Italian-American anarchist, publicly accused the Soviets of kidnapping Poyntz in order to prevent her defection. He said that before she disappeared, she had come to him to talk over her disgust at what she had seen in Moscow in 1936 in the early stages of Joseph Stalin's Great Purge.\n\nTestimony by former Soviet agent Whittaker Chambers tied Poyntz' disappearance to the shadowy Soviet Comintern agent Josef Peters. As an inside member of the Soviet Comintern and OGPU espionage network, Peters is believed to have participated in the planning of the kidnapping and alleged murder of fellow CPUSA member Poyntz by a Soviet assassination squad.\n\nChambers later stated that he heard Poyntz had been killed for attempted desertion, and this rumor contributed to his caution when he defected in 1938. Elizabeth Bentley stated she was told by Jacob Golos in the late 1930s, and later by KGB officer Anatoli Gromov in 1945 that Poyntz had been a traitor and was now dead. Both Chambers's and Bentley's defections were probably in part motivated by fear of the example set in the Poyntz case.\n\nIt is known that Poyntz told some acquaintances about plans to write a book in which she would expose the Communist movement. Author Benjamin Gitlow wrote that Poyntz was disillusioned by Stalin's purges and was unwilling to continue as an espionage agent for the USSR. Gitlow relates that the OGPU/NKVD used Poyntz's former lover, a man named Shachno Epstein, the associate editor of the Communist Yiddish daily Morgen Freiheit (and an OGPU/NKVD agent himself), to lure Poyntz out for a walk in Central Park. \"They met at Columbus Circle and proceeded to walk through Central Park...Shachno took her by the arm and led her up a side path, where a large black limousine hugged the edge of the walk... Two men jumped out, grabbed Miss Poyntz, shoved her into the car and sped away.\" Gitlow relates that the assassins took Poyntz to the woods near the Roosevelt estate in Dutchess County, and killed and buried her there. \"The body was covered with lime and dirt. On top were placed dead leaves and branches which the three killers trampled down with their feet.\"\n\nBefore his own mysterious death, the GRU defector Walter Krivitsky suggested another motive for the NKVD kidnapping of Poyntz. During one of her sojourns in Moscow, Poyntz had become a lover of Red Army Corps Commander Vitovt Putna. In August 1936, the NKVD arrested Putna and accused him of maintaining contacts with Leon Trotsky, from whom he had allegedly received \"terrorist directives.\" Under torture, Putna testified to the existence of a \"nation-wide\" center of Trotskyists, and to his involvement in a \"parallel\" military organization. On June 11, 1937, a military tribunal, \"in camera\", condemned Putna and other high-ranking officers to death in the judicial frame-up known as the Moscow Trial of the Trotskyist Anti-Soviet Military Organization. The NKVD, according to Krivitsky, may have abducted Poyntz one week before the trial out of fear that she would defect once the execution of Putna became known, or simply because she was a known friend of the \"enemy\" Putna.\n\nIn 1913, Poyntz married Dr. Friedrich Franz Ludwig Glaser, a communist and attache at the German consulate in New York. She kept her maiden name, although she changed the spelling from \"Points\" to \"Poyntz\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2005340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005340", "title": "Notah Begay III", "text": "Notah Begay III\n\nNotah Ryan Begay III (born September 14, 1972) is a Native American professional golfer. He is one of the only Native American golfers to have played in the PGA Tour. Since 2013, Begay has served as an analyst with the Golf Channel and NBC Sports.\n\nBegay was born and raised in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and graduated from a private high school, Albuquerque Academy. He attended Stanford University, where he was a three-time All-American and a teammate of Tiger Woods. He was a member of Stanford's 1994 NCAA Division I Men's Golf Championship team. After graduation, Begay turned professional in 1995.\n\nIn 1998, Begay shot a 59 in the second round of the Nike Tour Dominion Open, to join the few golfers to ever shoot a 59 in a professional tournament. He placed 10th on the Nike Tour money list that year, earning a place on the PGA Tour for 1999.\n\nBegay had a pair of wins in each of his first two seasons on the Tour. From late September 1999 to early July 2000, a period of just over nine months, Begay recorded four PGA Tour wins, with the third and fourth wins coming in successive weeks. Since then, he was plagued by back trouble which put his future as a professional golfer in doubt. In 2005, he played under a \"Major Medical Exemption\" with little success. In 2006, he played on the Nationwide Tour. At the end of 2006, he successfully earned a card for the European Tour from their qualifying school. In December 2008, he regained his playing card for the 2009 PGA Tour season at Q-school.\n\nBegay has been featured in the top 20 of the Official World Golf Rankings. He successfully utilized a unique putting method. Using a putter with playing faces on both the front and back of the head, he putted right-to-left-breaking putts right-handed, and left-to-right-breaking putts left-handed. Begay is the first top player to use such a technique and putter.\n\nBegay is a Native American of the Navajo, San Felipe, and Isleta people. He graduated from Albuquerque Academy in 1990 and earned a bachelor of science degree in Economics in 1995 from Stanford University.\n\nIn January 2000, Begay was arrested for what he admitted, in court, was actually his second DUI incident. He was sentenced to 364 days in jail with all but seven days suspended.\n\nBegay was named one of \"Golf Magazine’s\" Innovators of the Year in 2009 and has also been named one of the Top 100 Sports Educators in the world by the Institute for International Sport. \n\nBegay suffered a heart attack in 2014, while practicing on the putting green at Dallas National Golf Club. He was quickly taken by ambulance to Dallas' Methodist Hospital and a stent was placed in his right coronary artery.\n\nIn 2002, Begay founded NB3 Consulting, which consults with tribal communities looking to build golf courses for the purpose of economic development. Notable courses the company has built includes Sequoyah National, Firekeeper Golf Course, and Sewailo Golf Club.\n\nIn 2005, Begay established the non-profit Notah Begay III Foundation. The immediate goal of the foundation was to provide health and wellness education to Native American youth in the form of soccer and golf programs. The broader purpose of the foundation was to stand as a catalyst for change in the Native American community. On August 26, 2008, the foundation hosted the first Notah Begay III Foundation Challenge at the Turning Stone Resort & Casino, a skins golf match to raise money for the foundation. The five players for the tournament were Begay, Stewart Cink, Vijay Singh, Camilo Villegas and Mike Weir. On August 24, 2009, the foundation hosted its second annual Notah Begay III Foundation Challenge at the Turning Stone Resort & Casino.\n\nIn 2010, Begay founded KivaSun Foods, selling various bison-based products. In 2015, the company won a contract to have 520,000 pounds of bison distributed through the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations.\n\n\"this list may be incomplete\"\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (1–0)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nCancelled due to 9/11<br>\n\n\"T\" = Tied<br>\nNT = No tournament\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005347", "title": "Lake Taymyr", "text": "Lake Taymyr\n\nLake Taymyr () is a lake of the central regions of the Taymyr Peninsula in Krasnoyarsk Krai, Russian Federation. It is located south of the Byrranga Mountains.\n\nLake Taymyr is large, with a length of 165 km roughly east-to-west. It has an irregular shape with many arms projecting in different directions that cover a wide region. Its maximum width, however, is only about 23 km in its broadest area which is towards the eastern end of the lake.\n\nLake Taymyr is covered with ice from late September until June. The main river flowing into its basin, from the west, is the Upper Taymyra. Other rivers flowing into it are the Zapadnaya, Severnaya, Bikada Nguoma, Yamutarida and Kalamissamo. The Lower Taymyra River flows out of the lake northwards across the Byrranga mountain region.\n\nThe tundra areas south of Lake Taymyr are full of smaller lakes and marshes. There are two quite large lakes east and southeast of the easternmost part of Lake Taymyr, which is Yamuneru Bay: 33 km east is Lake Kungusalakh, and 72 km southeast is Lake Portnyagino. Both lakes are about 20 km across.\n\nLake Taymyr is teeming with many kinds of fish typical of cold Arctic waters, like loach, sig, and muksun. But there is overexploitation of some fish species despite the remoteness of the area.\n\nSlight plutonium contamination has been detected in the sediments of Lake Taymyr. This is perhaps a consequence of wind-carried particles after the numerous atmospheric nuclear tests in Novaya Zemlya during the Cold War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005350", "title": "Music scheduling system", "text": "Music scheduling system\n\nMusic scheduling systems are employed to sequence music at radio stations. Although these systems were originally implemented by manual index card methods, since the late 1970s they have exploited the efficiency and speed of digital computers. They are essential tools for broadcasting by music radio stations.\n\nThese systems are databases of the songs in active rotation at a radio station, plus an ample set of rules for sequencing them in accordance with specific policies. For example, there may be restrictions on how much time must pass between two songs by the same artist, or whether a song played during noontime today may be heard at noontime tomorrow (or not). There are also rules for what kinds of songs may succeed another according to tempos or other characteristics. \n\nMany people believe that disc jockeys at radio stations are responsible for choosing the music which is heard on their shows. In reality, playlists for each hour of the day have usually been generated in advance by a radio station's program director using a music scheduling system. This ensures that the station programming is optimal and adheres to the policies and objectives of the station's management. These policies and objectives are usually designed to please the greatest number of people inside the radio station's demographic target, and garner the best ratings possible for the radio station. However, there are some radio stations, for example those of BBC, which do allow most (but not all) disc jockeys to choose the music themselves without obligations, as these stations cover an eclectic range of genres. In addition, shows from resident/guest disc jockeys (particularly on mainstream stations) also do not need the program director's opinion for their playlists.\n\nMusic scheduling is simply the function of generating a playlist. Other systems are responsible for actually reproducing the music. \n\nThe first widely used commercial music scheduler for radio is Selector, originally written by Dr. Andrew Economos of Radio Computing Services, Inc, in 1979. A-ware MusicMaster (called Musicscan at the time) followed in 1983. The third most commonly used music scheduler, Powergold, was released in 1988. Today, Selector, MusicMaster and PowerGold are the three most widely used music scheduling applications in broadcasting.\n\nScheduling, in the general radio broadcasting sense, is the placement of content against a linear timeline for transmission on a broadcast station. This content may include not only music, but also commercial advertisements, station identifiers and promotional jingles. Commercial advertisements, called spots in radio lingo, are scheduled by their own separate scheduling system, called a 'traffic system' which keeps track of monetary considerations. The music schedule, non-music schedule (jingles, promos) and the commercial schedule are later merged into a single schedule (called the \"log\") to guide what must be played on the station on a minute-by-minute basis.\n\nWhen considering the internet as a new broadcast medium, the definition of scheduling could be broadened \"to curate or arrange a linear playlist of video/audio content for live transmission or on-demand distribution.\" This would apply to both internet distribution and traditional broadcasting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005352", "title": "Ventura Pons", "text": "Ventura Pons\n\nVentura Pons Sala (; born 25 July 1945, in Barcelona, Spain) is a Spanish movie director. He mainly directs films in Catalan but also in Spanish and English. Pons has directed 32 feature films and is one of the best-known Catalan film directors. His films are continuously programmed in the most prestigious International Festivals, almost 810 up to now, and distributed in many countries around the world.\n\nHe has been vice-president of the Spanish Film Academy and the subject of more than 34 international homages and retrospectives: London's ICA (Institute of Contemporary Arts), New York's Lincoln Center and in the world's foremost Cinematheques: Los Angeles, Mexico, Buenos Aires, Santiago, Caracas, Belgrade, Istanbul, Warsaw, Tel-Aviv, Jerusalem, Haifa, Mexico among many others.\n\nPons has also received international \"lifetime achievement awards\" in Chicago, Galway, Piestany, Lima, Torino, and Montpellier.\n\nIn Spain he has received the Catalan National Film Award, the Spain Fine Arts Gold Medal, the Catalan Sant Jordi Cross, the Catalan Film Academy Gaudi Honour Award, the Ondas Award, the City of Huesca Award, the Count Jaume d’Urgell 2018 Award, the Jordi Dauder Award, among many others.\n\nIn 2012 the University of Colorado at Denver (USA) held an academic Conference on his cinema. Vervuert has published a book about this conference: Ventura Pons: An exceptional gaze from the Catalan cinema.\n\nHe has published a book of memoirs Mine (and the others) (2011), and finished in 2017 another one I have tasted the fruits of the tree of life and also a World Tour diary, 54 days and a bit more (2012).\n\nIn September 2014 he recovered in Barcelona the old Texas Cinemes, to normalize the exhibition of international cinema always subtitled in Catalan. Europa Cinemas awarded it as the best \"cinema on the move\" in 2016.\n\nIn March 2017 he opened the AlbaTexas Cinemas in Valencia and in February 2018 the Las Vegas cinemas in Figueres.\n\nAt the same time, he founded the distribution company Albada Films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005355", "title": "Disturbing Behavior", "text": "Disturbing Behavior\n\nDisturbing Behavior is a 1998 American teen science fiction psychological horror film starring James Marsden, Katie Holmes, and Nick Stahl. The screenplay, written by Scott Rosenberg, follows a group of high school outcasts who are horrified by their \"Blue Ribbon\" classmates, and was compared unfavorably by most critics to the 1975 thriller, \"The Stepford Wives.\" The film was directed by David Nutter, who was a director and producer of \"The X-Files\" as well as a director and co-executive producer of \"Millennium\".\n\nSteve Clark (James Marsden) is a high school senior whose family moves to Cradle Bay, a picturesque island community in Washington state's Puget Sound. It has been nearly one year since Steve's older brother, Allen (Ethan Embry), committed suicide, which traumatized the family.\n\nDuring Steve's first day at his new high school, he meets and befriends three outcast students, Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl), Gavin's friend, U.V. (Chad Donella) and Rachel \"Rae\" Wagner (Katie Holmes). Gavin tries to tell Steve that he believes there is something evil about the \"Blue Ribbons\" - a clique of students taking part in a \"special program\" led by the school psychologist, Dr. Edgar Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood). Later that day, Steve witnesses a fight in class between a rebellious student, Dickie Atkinson (Tygh Runyan) and one of the Blue Ribbons. Dickie is later accosted at a secluded marina by the Blue Ribbons. He later reappears at school as a clean-cut Blue Ribbon and assists in smashing up his once-prized muscle car in front of the students.\n\nSteve goes to a local yogurt shop to meet Gavin, but the Blue Ribbons, keen to befriend him, invite him to sit with them. Gavin arrives to meet Steve, and takes him outside after a tense exchange with the group. Gavin shows Steve a photograph of himself and several of his friends, who were transformed into Blue Ribbons. The two eavesdrop on a parents meeting, where Gavin learns his parents have signed him up for Caldicott's program. Steve remains skeptical of Gavin's fears of the Blue Ribbons and the program, and wrestles a gun Gavin produces, which he planned to use against his expected abductors.\n\nThe following day at lunch, Gavin walks in with his hair cut, and looking like a Blue Ribbon. When Steve tries to confront Gavin, he gets punched in the stomach for his impertinence. Later, after being chased home, Steve finds Blue Ribbon member Lorna Longley (Crystal Cass) in his living room, waiting up after tutoring Steve's younger sister Lindsay (Katharine Isabelle). She goes to use the bathroom, then emerges, partially undressed, and forcefully kisses Steve. Her heightened arousal causes her right eye to glow red, startling Steve. Lorna then starts chanting: \"Wrong, bad!\" and then smashes her head into a mirror, attacks Steve with a mirror shard, and then leaves the house. She is later seen undergoing treatment at a medical facility under Dr. Caldicott's direction. He insists to Lorna's parents that the brain implant where the pituitary gland and right eye are works, and she needed a new one.\n\nDuring this time, Steve also befriends Dorian (William Sadler), the school janitor, who appears to be mentally disabled and hunts rats for the city for some extra cash. Dorian demonstrates a device called an E-Rat-icator which emits a soft, high pitched whine that is supposed to be innocuous but annoying to rats. Dorian tells Steve that he suspects that the entire community of Cradle Bay is part of a massive conspiracy made up of nearly all of the parents, the local police chief, the school principal and entire school faculty, who hired Dr. Caldicott to \"reprogram\" their own children to become the perfect people that they want them to be and not rebellious teenagers. Rachel finds a CD-R disc that Gavin hid in the school's boiler room, containing a video he made of himself before his \"transformation\", telling about the history of the club and Caldicott's background. A Blue Ribbon known as \"Chug\" (A.J. Buckley) attempts to rape Rachel in the basement, when Dorian's E-Rat-icator goes off, and immediately sends Chug into an agonized frenzy, during which Rachel slips away. Chug smashes the E-Rat-cator and walks out, apparently oblivious to what has just occurred.\n\nDuring their personal investigation, Steve and Rachel try to find out what exactly has been happening to the Blue Ribbon kids, which leads them to a mental hospital called Bishop Flats following a lead on the disc. They find out that mind control is being used to make unruly teens become perfect so they can function properly in life, but the programming has some glitches that lead to momentary relapses and violent fits. They also find Caldicott's own daughter, Betty (Julie Patzwald), a failed project who appears to have been lobotomized by her father's experiments.\n\nAfter escaping from the hospital, Steve and Rachel return to Cradle Bay to plan to rescue Lindsay and Gavin's friend, U.V. before fleeing town. They have a run-in with the town's police chief Cox (Steve Railsback) who is also involved in the conspiracy. He tries to arrest them for being out after curfew, but Dorian shows up under the pretense that he is disposing of dead rats, then knocks out the police chief and frees Steve and Rachel, telling them to leave town and go public with what they know. When Rachel and Steve return to Steve's home to get Lindsay, Steve's parents reveal that they moved to Cradle Bay to sign him up for the program. A group of Blue Ribbons ambush them and drag Steve and Rachel to the programming center. Steve grabs a scalpel before being strapped into a chair. Before the reprogramming can start, Steve uses the scalpel to cut his bonds and rescue Rachel, and killing the medical techs. On the way out, they encounter Chug, who attacks Steve. Rachel bludgeons Chug to death, saving Steve. \n\nExiting what turns out to be the town hospital's basement, Steve and Rachel are met by Lindsay and U.V. in Rachel's truck. Rushing to catch the early ferry, they meet with a roadblock made of Blue Ribbons and Caldicott on the road. When hope seems lost, Dorian drives up, striking Caldicott, and activating multiple E-Rat-icators that scramble the mind control tech inside the Blue Ribbons' heads. They chase after Dorian and try to destroy the E-Rat-icators. Steve tells U.V. to drive Lindsay and Rachel to the ferry and follows Dorian on a motorcycle. Dorian, having been fatally wounded by a gunshot from Caldicott, and believing the Blue Ribbons to be beyond help, drives his car off a cliff with most of the Blue Ribbons hanging onto it. A final battle ensues between Steve and Caldicott, which Steve wins by kicking Caldicott off the cliff. Steve then rides the motorcycle to the ferry, where he and Rachel reunite with a kiss. They then leave Cradle Bay on the ferry with Lindsay and U.V. to begin a new life without their parents. \n\nThe final scene shows a classroom in an urban high school with kids playing loud music, cursing, and acting up. They are informed that they have a new student teacher. The well-groomed teacher turns around after writing on the board and is revealed to be Gavin, with the Blue Ribbon \"red twinkle\" still active in his right eye.\n\n\nReviews for the film were mixed to negative. As of January 2019, the film held a \"rotten\" 34% rating at the film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, receiving 25 negative reviews out of 38.\n\nIn spite of the disappointing reviews, \"Disturbing Behavior\" was a moderate success at the box office. The film opened at No. 7 at the North American box office making $7 million USD in its opening weekend. It had a 57% decline in earnings the following week, falling to No. 12.\n\nAfter filming was completed and director David Nutter edited his director's cut, MGM took the film away from him and had several different versions re-edited and shown to test audiences. Eventually, an 83 minutes long version was the one selected for theatrical release. Many cut scenes from the film focused more on plot and character development. Cuts made to the film were so severe that Nutter thought about having his name removed from the credits.\n\nAlthough a director's cut was never released, there is a fan edit version of the film available, which runs 103 minutes and uses the DVD's deleted scenes, including the film's original ending. A few other deleted scenes were not released, while the real director's cut ran 115 minutes.\n\nThe DVD release features eleven deleted scenes featuring more story and character development, as well as a love scene between Steve and Rachel, never used in the theatrical release, but present in the theatrical trailer. Scenes include a conversation between Dorian and Steve, in which Dorian explains how a crash that killed four drunken teens, a mother and her young child devastated the town and made them receptive to Caldicott's plan; a conversation between Steve and Rachel on the ferry, in which he tells the circumstances behind his brother's suicide; a ride Steve gets from Officer Cox after being chased by the Blue Ribbons and before encountering Lorna at his house; and Steve's mother finding a gun (confiscated from Gavin) hidden under Steve's mattress, which prompts them to bring in Caldicott. Also included is an alternate ending where Gavin meets a different fate than the one used in the theatrical release, and the revelation that Caldicott's program is assisted by a shadowy organization seeking a \"prototype\".\n\nIn the film commentary, the director complains that he objected to particular scenes being removed, but that the producers overrode his objections. In certain versions of the theatrical release, the two aforementioned conversations did stay included.\n\nThe United States cable networks Syfy Universal and Comet (TV network) have been known to air a somewhat unofficial director's cut of the film, with the deleted scenes reinstated, although the film is still shown with the theatrical ending.\n\nAs they are leaving Bishop Flats, Steve makes the decision to return to Cradle Bay to rescue his sister, which upsets Rachel, who then tells Steve that all her ambitions of escaping Cradle Bay and going to college have now evaporated with their new revelations about the Blue Ribbon program, and implores him to simply escape with her. When he insists on returning for his sister, Rachel relents and goes with him. On the ferry back to Cradle Bay, Steve and Rachel use the time to have sex in Rachel's truck.\nThe scene can be found on the original 2000 DVD release by MGM.\n\nAfter defeating Callicott, Steve gets on the ferry, and discovers his friends held up at gunpoint by Gavin, and it turns out he wasn't affected by the E-rat-acator, because he was wearing his headphones. Still trying to be his friend, Steve pleads with Gavin that they need to get him some help. Gavin refuses on the false belief that everything helped him without the realization of the program's effects which cause him to react. He tries to shoot Steve with a shotgun and UV shoots him three times with the gun that Steve took away from him. As he lies dying on the ground, Gavin escapes out of his hypnosis to chastise a heartbroken UV (for not being able to kill him in fewer than three shots) while the others tend to him. His dying words are a sarcastic remark that his death will prevent him from meeting his pre-transformation idol, Trent Reznor. Despite having survived the events that preceded them, the group is reminded that they still lost a friend in the process as everyone starts to tear up.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005361", "title": "KTMD", "text": "KTMD\n\nKTMD, virtual channel 47 (UHF digital channel 22), is a Telemundo owned-and-operated television station serving Houston, Texas, United States that is licensed to Galveston. The station is owned by the Telemundo Station Group subsidiary of NBCUniversal (which itself is a subsidiary of Comcast). KTMD's studios are located on I-610 and Bevis Street on Houston's northwest side, and its transmitter is located near Missouri City, in unincorporated northeastern Fort Bend County.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on February 1, 1988 full-time (although it was founded in early December 1987 when it was airing a few hours daily in the late night hours), broadcasting on UHF channel 48 from a transmitter located east of Farm to Market Road 528 south of Friendswood. It has been aligned with Telemundo since its sign-on, as the network began acquiring and affiliating with television stations in several key Spanish-language markets.\n\nIn 2002, KTMD was granted permission to move its analog signal to channel 47 in order to operate its digital signal on channel 48, which would operate from a transmitter located in Missouri City rather than Friendswood. The station also cited interference from a station in Bryan for its reasoning to change its channel allocation. KTMD officially moved to channel 47 on November 9, 2002.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nCurrently, the DT3 subchannel is not active.\n\nKTMD discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 47, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 48, using PSIP to display KTMD's virtual channel as 47 on digital television receivers.\n\nTelemundo Houston has served the local community for more than 25 years, broadcasting the market's first-ever Spanish-language television newscast. As of November 3, 2014, the station produces and airs nine and half hours per week of local news and information programming, offering viewers the most up-to-date local news, weather, sports and entertainment headlines through a variety of platforms, including online at TelemundoHouston.com and via mobile and social media channels.\n\nThe station's news department was founded upon the station's 1987 sign-on, with newscasts branded under the title \"Noticiero 48\". KTMD's newscasts were retitled as \"Noticentro 48\" (using the Spanish titling of the \"NewsCenter\" brand popular with U.S. television stations during the 1970s and 1980s) the following year, only to revert to the original \"Noticiero\" title in 1991, with a slight alteration to \"Noticiero 47\" in 2002 to reflect its new channel position on UHF 47. In 2001 The station debuted a morning newscast from 6 am to 7 am. It was the area's only morning newscast, and the station also hired a meteorologist for both the morning and evening newscasts Maria Fonseca and Daniel Morales respectively. The station later hired Roberto Repreza and changed its news department. After Tropical Storm Allison hit the area, KTMD and other stations lost revenue. After the September 11 attacks, the station cancelled the morning newscasts and as a result, the station laid off 14 staffers and the anchors Atala Sarimiento and Miguel Amante respectively was moved to the evening newscasts as reporters. The reason for these layoffs was because of low ad revenue.\n\nTelemundo's parent company NBCUniversal moved the locally produced newscast operations to a new regional production center in Fort Worth, Texas in 2006. However, by February 2010, production of KTMD's local newscasts returned to Houston in the station's northwest Houston studios. Then in 2011, KTMD debuted a local morning newscast, 5am-6am, and also aired morning updates during \"Un Nuevo Día\". However, the station later cancelled the morning newscast in late 2012, electing to instead launch weekend editions resulting in afternoon and late night newscasts seven days a week. Furthermore, on November 3, 2014, KTMD added more local newscasts by launching weekday newscasts at 4:30 p.m.\n\nThe station considers Univision owned-and-operated station KXLN-DT and the English news stations to be its competitors in this sector. The 5 p.m. weekend newscasts were later pushed to 4:30 p.m. following Telemundo selection to air movies in that timeslot. On September 18, 2014, Telemundo announced it was launching new early-evening newscasts on all of its owned-and-operated stations (including KTMD) starting November 3, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005364", "title": "Tony Twist", "text": "Tony Twist\n\nAnthony Rory Twist (born May 9, 1968 in Sherwood Park, Alberta) is a former professional ice hockey player. He played left wing in the NHL for the St. Louis Blues and Quebec Nordiques, and was a feared enforcer. Twist penned a foreword to the Ross Bernstein book \"The Code: The Unwritten Rules Of Fighting And Retaliation In The NHL\". He also owned a chain of bars named Twister's Iron Bar Saloon, with locations in St. Charles and Imperial Missouri. Currently he co-hosts the \"Smash and Twist\" show on 590 the Fan in St. Louis.\n\nHe was selected by the St. Louis Blues in the ninth round of the 1988 NHL Entry Draft, No. 177 overall. After skating with the Blues for the 1989–1990 season, he played four seasons with the Quebec Nordiques (later relocated to Colorado). He became a free agent in 1994 and returned to the Blues, playing there until July 1999, when he broke his pelvis in a motorcycle accident in St. Louis and was unable to resume his NHL career. Known for his devastating punches, he battered many of the league's top enforcers during his career.\n\nIn the Spawn comic book series, Todd McFarlane created a mob enforcer character named Antonio \"Tony Twist\" Twistelli, who McFarlane acknowledged was named after Tony Twist. Twist learned about the character through his mother in British Columbia, who had a group of boys arrive to her house with Tony Twist-related Spawn items in 1997. After this incident, Twist viewed the \"Spawn\" animated series that had earlier aired on HBO from May to June 1997, he subsequently remarked \"I'm in pink thong underwear, smoking a cigar, ordering the kidnapping of a child while two women are naked on the couch making love to each other. I obviously didn't want any part of that. Even if I was a good guy I wouldn’t have participated. You’ve got kids being kidnapped, you’ve got nudity, you’ve got police raping women. It’s nothing I want to be affiliated with.\" On October 31, 1997, Twist filed an anonymous John Doe lawsuit against Todd McFarlane Productions, and related parties such as HBO, for appropriation of his name without permission. The lawsuit was filed anonymously in order to keep publicity surrounding it to a minimum. \n\nHe was initially awarded $24 million by a St. Louis, Missouri judge in 2000. Sean Phillips, a former executive of a sports nutrition company, testified for Twist, stating that he withdrew a $100,000 endorsement deal, only after learning about the despicable nature of the Tony Twist character. However, the $24 million ruling would be reversed in November 2000, with McFarlane joking to journalists \"He's got to return that yacht now.\" The trial continued, and Twist later won $15 million in 2004 when a St. Louis jury found Todd McFarlane Productions had profited from Twist's likeness. The verdict was upheld after two appeals in June 2006. In 2007, Twist and McFarlane settled the lawsuit out of court for $5 million.\n\nTwist reflected on the lawsuit in a 2020 interview, saying \"I did not despise Todd in any way shape or form. Not at all. He thought this was a first amendment issue where he had the right to do whatever.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2005367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005367", "title": "Brookline (Pittsburgh)", "text": "Brookline (Pittsburgh)\n\nBrookline is a neighborhood in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in the United States.\n\nBrookline was a part of the larger West Liberty Borough before its absorption into\nPittsburgh in 1908. Early in its history, the area was mostly inhabited by miners and farmers. At the turn of the century, when the mining industry in the area declined, only farms were left.\n\nThe dawn of the 20th century brought many technological advances that helped the South Hills of Pittsburgh flourish. First, the transportation of coal from the area opened up the Pittsburgh & Castle Shannon Railroad Co. to install lines going to the area. This included a tunnel to be bored from downtown Pittsburgh, through Mt. Washington, and to exit right above South Hills Junction. With the age of automobiles looming, a few decades later the Liberty Tunnel was completed. This helped create a boom in the South Hills areas.\n\nBrookline was linked by streetcar to downtown Pittsburgh in 1905 by Pittsburgh Railways who built a single line south along West Liberty Avenue, turning east on a private right of way and then following Brookline Boulevard to Saw Mill Run. This initial line was cut back to Edgebrook Avenue a year later, but in 1909 the track was doubled and a loop put in near the end of Witt Street. In 1915 the line was extended south along West Liberty Avenue to Dormont where it linked with the \"42 Dormont\" line. The \"39 Brookline\" service closed in 1966.\n\nBrookline has seven borders, including the Pittsburgh neighborhoods of Beechview to the northeast, Bon Air to the northwest, Carrick to the east and Overbrook to the southeast. The remaining borders are with Baldwin Township to the south, Mt. Lebanon to the southwest and Dormont to the west.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005372", "title": "Croatian Popular Party", "text": "Croatian Popular Party\n\nCroatian Popular Party () is a right-wing political party in Croatia.\n\nThe party was founded in 1997 by Tomislav Merčep after his departure from Croatian Democratic Union.\n\nMerčep was the party candidate in the 2000 Croatian presidential election, and was eliminated in the first round as the seventh of nine candidates, winning 22,672 votes or 0.85% of the vote.\n\nTomislav Petrak (born 1946), a Ph.D. in veterinary science a professor at the Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology in Zagreb, member of the Party since its founding in 1997, was its candidate in the 2005 Croatian presidential election. He finished last of the thirteen candidates in the first round with 2,614 votes or 0.12% of the vote.\n\nThe party had limited success on local elections.\n"}
{"id": "2005379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005379", "title": "KERA-TV", "text": "KERA-TV\n\nKERA-TV, virtual channel 13 (UHF digital channel 14), is a Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member television station licensed to Dallas, Texas, United States and serving the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex. Owned by North Texas Public Broadcasting, Inc., it is sister to National Public Radio (NPR) member station KERA (90.1 FM) and adult album alternative station KKXT (91.7 FM). The three stations share studios on Harry Hines Boulevard (adjacent to North Harwood and Wolf Streets, east-northeast of I-35E) in downtown Dallas; KERA-TV's transmitter is located on Tar Road in Cedar Hill, just south of the Dallas–Ellis county line.\n\nThe station's signal is relayed on low-power translator station K26NK-D in Wichita Falls, which provides PBS programming to the Texas side of the Wichita Falls–Lawton market (the Oklahoma Educational Television Authority also provides public television service to that market, via fringe coverage of its full-power stations in Oklahoma City and Cheyenne, and translators based in Lawton, Duncan, Grandfield and Altus that serve southwestern Oklahoma and parts of extreme northwest Texas).\n\nKERA-TV also serves as the default public television station for several markets in North and West Texas that are not serviced by independent, full-power PBS stations, including Abilene, San Angelo and the Tyler–Longview–Lufkin–Nacogdoches market, as well as the Texas side of the Sherman–Ada market (the Oklahoma side of the latter market is also serviced by translators operated by the OETA member network). KERA is also available on cable in Hillsboro, Waco and Texarkana.\n\nThe VHF channel 13 allocation in the Dallas–Fort Worth market—which the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) reserved for non-commercial educational use in its list of frequencies assigned for broadcast television transmissions—was originally applied for use by Southern Methodist University in the late 1950s; however, the university had trouble raising enough funds for its planned educational station's start-up, programming and operational costs.\n\nIn 1958, the Dallas Independent School District (DISD) partnered with local nonprofit corporation Area Education Television Foundation, Inc. (which later evolved into North Texas Public Broadcasting) to apply for the allocation. In October of that year, W. T. White, then-superintendent of the DISD, announced that the station was slated to sign on the air by the beginning of the 1959–60 school year; programming on channel 13 was scheduled to include Spanish-language instructional programming for area elementary school students. The foundation had difficulty in meeting its fundraising goals to obtain start-up costs for the commencement of operations and broadcasts of its educational station; by May 1959, the foundation was said to be $265,000 short of its $890,000 target to cover the proposed station's first two years of broadcasting.\nThe original license application filed by the organization-school district partnership had obtained permission from the FCC to operate the station from broadcast facilities located in Fair Park (on land donated to Area Educational Television Foundation and the DISD by the Dallas city government). However, in January 1960, the partnership applied for permission to broadcast from studios on Harry Hines Boulevard that were set to be vacated by ABC affiliate WFAA-TV (channel 8), which had been used by that station since its sign-on (as DuMont-Paramount affiliate KBTV) in September 1949. A. H. Belo Corporation was in the process of building new studio facilities at Young and Houston Streets to accommodate the operations of local newspaper \"The Dallas Morning News\", WFAA television and its companion radio stations (570 AM, now KLIF and 97.9 FM, now KBFB; the latter of which ironically once held the KERA-FM call letters now used by KERA-TV's sister radio station on 90.1 FM). The Dallas Independent School District purchased the building on Harry Hines for $400,000.\nKERA-TV (the call letters are said to represent a \"new era in broadcasting\") signed on the air on September 14, 1960, originally serving as a member station of National Educational Television (NET). It originally operated from temporary studio facilities at the Davis Building—located behind the original WFAA studios—in downtown Dallas, in two portable buildings that were made to resemble a schoolhouse. It also used the original transmission tower used by WFAA-TV from 1960 to 1971, before moving its transmitter to a tower in Cedar Hill owned by then-independent station KTVT (channel 11, now a CBS owned-and-operated station) until 2009, when KTVT moved its transmitter to a different tower site a short distance away. However, KERA's transmitter only produced a medium-power signal that covered Dallas and surrounding suburbs in Dallas, Collin, Hunt, Rockwall, Ellis and Kaufman counties. The station would migrate its operations to the Harry Hines Boulevard facility in April 1961.\n\nDuring its first years of operation, KERA benefitted frequently through help from commercial broadcast stations in the Metroplex. The Dallas Independent School District also paid the station to carry instructional telecourses that it would produce for broadcast on channel 13. The issues concerning channel 13's limited signal range would be resolved on August 31, 1970, when a new transmitter was installed that expanded KERA's signal coverage into Fort Worth and surrounding communities in Tarrant, Denton, Wise, Parker, Hood and Johnson counties. That same year, KERA became a member station of the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), which was launched as an independent entity to supersede NET and took over many of the functions of its predecessor network.\n\nIn 1974, KERA gained a sister station on radio, when National Public Radio station KERA signed on the air on 90.1 FM; over time, KERA radio would expand its reach throughout North Texas through the launch of translators in Wichita Falls, Tyler and Sherman. That year, channel 13 became the first television station in the United States to broadcast episodes of \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\"; the station is often credited with introducing the British comedy series to American audiences, which eventually gave \"Flying Circus\" a cult following.\nOn September 1, 1988, North Texas Public Broadcasting signed on KDTN (channel 2) in Denton to serve as the market's secondary PBS member station, a project which the organization had been working on since May 1977, when it filed an FCC application for a construction permit to build an educational station on VHF channel 2 (North Texas Public Broadcasting would reach an agreement with its lone remaining competitor for the permit in 1984 to obtain the permit). The organization primarily used KDTN to run educational and instructional programs that had previously filled much of KERA's daytime schedule, along with carrying some programs produced by the University of North Texas (the KDTN studio facility was based on the university's campus). At that time, KERA shifted its schedule to offering primarily entertainment programming from PBS and other public television program distributors such as American Public Television; channel 13 also identified Denton as part of the station's service area in station identifications during the period it operated KDTN.\n\nAfter making the decision to divest the secondary outlet on the basis that its funding was no longer sufficient to continue operating two television stations in the Metroplex, North Texas Public Broadcasting sold KDTN to religious broadcaster Daystar—which bought the station in a $20 million deal in order to get a better signal in the market to replace its original flagship, KMPX (channel 29, now an Estrella TV owned-and-operated station), which it sold in turn—on August 12, 2003; the acquisition was finalized on January 13, 2004.\n\nThrough a special arrangement, KERA announced plans to continue carrying programming sourced from the station over KDTN's digital signal, in order to free up bandwidth on KERA's main digital signal to allow the station to begin transmitting high definition content on digital channel 13.1. This has never been utilized as improvements in multiplexing technology have allowed a high definition channel to exist with standard definition channels, and KERA has had no need to use KDTN's bandwidth.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nIn 2003, KERA-TV signed on its digital signal on UHF channel 14. The station shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 13, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on the UHF channel 14 allocation it used during the transition period. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 13.\n\nPrior to the sign-on of the station's Wichita Falls translator, KERA had maintained a unique arrangement to distribute its programming to northwest Texas and southwestern Oklahoma, which was one of the few areas of the United States that did not have a PBS member station of its own. A group headed by longtime State Representative Ray Farabee launched KIDZ-TV on UHF channel 24 in 1973; the station maintained a full-power license, but operated at an effective radiated power of only 2.82 kilowatts, producing a signal that had limited coverage propagation from the transmitter equivalent to that of many low-power stations. Before the expansion of cable television into the area, the goals were simple; among them, to make the popular children's program \"Sesame Street\" available to viewers in Wichita Falls (at the time, it was standard for PBS to offer programs to commercial stations in areas that did not have public television service; but for unknown reasons, none of the three commercial stations in the Wichita Falls-Lawton market—NBC affiliate KFDX-TV (channel 3), CBS affiliate KAUZ-TV (channel 6) or ABC affiliate KSWO-TV (channel 7)—were interested). The local group had planned to apply for and build a translator to extend the KIDZ signal into the area. At the time, translators were only allowed to use signals picked up off the air, and KERA's signal was marginal at best in that part of North Texas.\n\nKIDZ-TV shared tower space with KAUZ-TV, with the transmitter rebroadcasting KERA-TV's programming during the hours that KAUZ when was broadcasting, roughly between 6:00 a.m. and midnight. This meant that some specials that KERA aired on weekend evenings were interrupted before their conclusion when the KAUZ engineers (who tended channel 24 as a public service) switched off the transmitters for the night and went home.\n\nBy the late 1970s, the FCC updated its broadcast translator regulations to allow a microwave relay to be used to feed programming transmissions to the translator station. KERA was therefore able to build its own translator in Wichita Falls, also on channel 24, as K24AD. The translator provided a better signal quality, and could operate throughout KERA's designated broadcast hours. The repeater moved to UHF channel 44 in 2005, at which point it changed its callsign to K44GS. In September 2009, the FCC granted a construction permit to North Texas Public Broadcasting to convert K44GS to digital transmissions; the permit remained valid until September 2012 (the current occupant of channel 24, K24HH-D, is unrelated to K24AD or the earlier KIDZ-TV). In summer of 2018, the callsign changed to K26NK-D.\n\nIn October 2009, North Texas Public Broadcasting filed an application with the FCC for a license to operate a KERA translator in Tyler. The license application requested for the translator to operate on UHF channel 25. The application was dismissed in March 2011. Two additional applications are still pending for repeaters on UHF channels 35 and 44, but no apparent actions have been taken on these applications to date.\n\nKERA maintains several digital resources available for use by local schools and organizations serving children and families across North Texas. \"Ready for Life\" is a multimedia initiative that provides resources for parents, teachers and caregivers to prepare school-age children to live healthy and socially enriched lives, offering training modules on temperament, attachment and socialization, early literacy and nutrition and fitness; a 60-minute documentary; books; and Spanish-language materials.\n\nThe \"Summer Learning Challenge\" is an annual initiative targeted at families and organized with participating North Texas nonprofits. Participants are required to complete a series of online PBS-related activities and challenges, while families are encouraged to read books, prepare recipes and take part in KERA-recommended summer activities together.\n\nIn March–April 2016, KERA held the Dallas-Fort Worth iteration of the \"Cyberchase Step It Up!\" program, in partnership with the Boys & Girls Club of Greater Fort Worth and the Blue Zones Project, which was designed to inspire kids and educators to find opportunities to work more steps in their regular day while learning about math. In June 2016, KERA hosted and sponsored an event at the Trinity River Audubon Center (TRAC) for 120 children from lower-income and immigrant families, in which participants engaged in educational activities centered around the Trinity River.\n\nKERA also hosts various screenings related to television programs and focused on community engagement. In the fall of 2016, KERA hosted two screenings of the documentary \"Willie Velásquez: Your Vote is Your Voice\". In March 2016, KERA partnered with the Texas Rangers Baseball Foundation to present two screenings of the Ken Burns documentary \"Jackie Robinson\", which chronicled the life and contributions of the first African American to play in Major League Baseball. In April 2017, KERA hosted a screening for Burns' multi-part documentary film, \"The Vietnam War\".\nKERA Passport is a localized version of the PBS Passport video-on-demand service that offers expansive access to video content for KERA member donors who contribute $60 or more annually or at least $5 in ongoing monthly donations to KERA-TV and KERA radio. Introduced in 2016, KERA Passport allows members to save shows available for streaming on the platform to a watchlist, view archived programs (such as \"Downton Abbey\", \"NOVA\", \"Call the Midwife\", \"Austin City Limits\", \"Frontline\" and \"American Masters\"), and watch favorited programs online and through the PBS Passport app.\n\nTellyspotting is a blog operated by KERA that provides news about British television series (many of which – specifically those aired as part of the PBS wheel series \"Masterpiece\", such as \"Victoria\" and \"Sherlock\" – are carried by KERA-TV, or its traditional block of Britcoms), detailing new and upcoming programs, and news and articles about British-originated programs aggregated from around the Internet.\n\nAs a PBS member station, much of KERA's programming consists of educational and entertainment programming distributed by PBS to its member stations, which include \"NOVA\", the \"PBS NewsHour\", \"Antiques Roadshow\", \"Arthur\", \"Frontline\", \"Masterpiece\", \"Daniel Tiger's Neighborhood\", \"Nature\" and \"Sesame Street\". While there is cross-promotion between KERA-TV and the KERA and KKXT radio stations, the radio properties conduct pledge drives independent of those conducted by channel 13.\n\nKERA airs children's programming from PBS and American Public Television on its main feed each Monday through Friday from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., as well as 24 hours a day on its PBS Kids-affiliated subchannel on digital channel 13.2. KERA has the second-largest audience average for children's programming among public television stations in the United States, with its programs reaching over 350,000 children each week.\n\nKERA has long contributed original programming for distribution to the nationwide PBS system and individual member stations, including documentaries such as \"JFK: Breaking the News\" and \"Matisse and Picasso\", the latter of which earned the station an Emmy Award nomination. The station also produced the PBS documentary series \"The U.S. - Mexican War\", which aired between 1995 and 2006.\n\nOther programs from KERA's production department that have been distributed to public television stations throughout Texas and nationwide have included \"The Texas Debates\", \"CEO\" (a monthly interview series hosted by Lee Cullum, airing on KERA television and radio, which features interviews with chief executives from the corporate and non-profit sectors in North Texas that inquires about how companies try to attain or maintain success in the current global marketplace, as well as leadership style and ethics) and \"The Can Cliburn: 50 Years of Gold\". It also produces \"Frame of Mind\", a series co-produced by KERA's Art&Seek unit and the Video Association of Dallas, which showcases independent films, documentaries and video shorts from Texas-based filmmakers.\n\nAdditional past productions are archived on KERA's website.\n\nKERA-TV became one of the earliest educational television stations in the U.S. to establish a news department on February 16, 1970, when it premiered \"Newsroom\", a half-hour 6:00 p.m. newscast that aired Monday through Friday evenings, and was based on a similar program that aired on San Francisco PBS member station KQED. In October 1976, the program was relaunched as a half-hour prime time newscast under the title \"The 9 O'Clock Report\", predating the move of then-independent station KTVT's late evening newscast to the 9:00 p.m. timeslot in August 1990. Within months of the change, channel 13 moved its evening newscast two hours earlier to 7:00 p.m. on January 31, 1977 (with the move, the program was briefly retitled as \"The 7 O'Clock Report\", before becoming \"13 Report\" the following month). KERA shut down its news department on September 21, 1977.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005384", "title": "Ante Ledić", "text": "Ante Ledić\n\nAnte Ledić (born 1940 in Aržano) is a Croatian businessman, politician from and vice-president of Croatian Christian Democratic Party.\n\nIn his youth, Ledić was a Yugoslav champion and national record holder in long jump and decathlon. His decathlon personal best, set in 1961, makes him the all-time 6th Croatian decathlete .\n\nHe has never been a member of a political party, but he was very close to Franjo Tuđman and the Croatian Democratic Union. His first entry to politics happened during the Zagreb Crisis when he was proposed by Tuđman as a compromise candidate for Zagreb mayor.\n\nIn 2000 he ran for Croatian president as an independent candidate, finishing 5th, with 0.85% of the vote.\n"}
{"id": "2005385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005385", "title": "Tad Dorgan", "text": "Tad Dorgan\n\nThomas Aloysius Dorgan (April 29, 1877 – May 2, 1929), also known as Tad Dorgan, was an American cartoonist who signed his drawings as Tad. He is known for his cartoon panel \"Indoor Sports\" and comic strip \"Judge Rummy\", as well as the many words and expressions he added to the language.\n\nDorgan was born in San Francisco on April 29, 1877. He was one of at least 11 children—six sons and five daughters – of Thomas J. and Anna Dorgan. His brother John L. \"Ike\" Dorgan (born April 1879) was publicity manager for the Madison Square Garden, and his brother Richard W. \"Dick\" Dorgan (born September 1892) was an illustrator and cartoonist.\n\nPolytechnic High School teachers Rosey Murdoch and Maria Van Vieck recognized and encouraged Tad's talent as an artist. When Dorgan was a child, he lost several fingers of his right hand in an accident whose details are unclear; \"Cosmopolitan\" writer O. O. McIntyre — a friend of Dorgan's — wrote that when Dorgan \"was eight, he was fooling around on a house-moving job and attempted to ride a shovel on a rope that was propelled by a big pulley. He turned his head for a second and his right hand was caught in a pulley, crushing off four fingers of that right hand, which was reduced to a thumb and a piece of knuckle.\" Henry Morton Robinson's description of the incident is largely the same, except that he said it took place when Dorgan was nine.\n\nOther versions of the incident exist, however: Westbrook Pegler — who was likewise a friend of Dorgan's — wrote that Dorgan had lost \"the first two fingers and half of the palm of his right hand\" in an incident with a buzzsaw. Comics historian John Adcock has noted that, although there were \"dozens of different stories\", only McIntyre's version was in accordance with the statement on Dorgan's draft card that he had \"all fingers except thumb off of right hand\".\n\nAfter the amputation, Dorgan took up drawing for therapy. When he was 14 he joined the art staff of the \"San Francisco Bulletin\".\n\nHe created his first comic strip, \"Johnny Wise\", for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" in 1902. By 1905 he was working in New York City at the \"New York Journal\" as a sports writer and cartoonist. Jack Dempsey described him as \"the greatest authority on boxing.\"\n\nIn addition to his work as a sports journalist, Dorgan did a humor feature, \"Daffydills\". His dog cartoons, including \"Judge Rummy\" (1910-1922), evolved into the strip \"Silk Hat Harry's Divorce Suit\". This was accompanied by a one-panel gag series called \"Indoor Sports\" which became his main feature, along with an occasional \"Outdoor Sports\".\n\nDorgan is generally credited with either creating or popularizing such words and expressions as \"dumbbell\" (a stupid person); \"for crying out loud\" (an exclamation of astonishment); \"cat's meow\" and \"cat's pajamas\" (as superlatives); \"applesauce\" (nonsense); \"cheaters\" (eyeglasses); \"skimmer\" (a hat); \"hard-boiled\" (tough and unsentimental); \"drugstore cowboy\" (loafers or ladies' men); \"nickel-nurser\" (a miser); \"as busy as a one-armed paperhanger\" (overworked); and \"Yes, we have no bananas,\" which was turned into a popular song.\n\nIn the \"New York Times\" obituary, he was bracketed with George Ade and Ring Lardner as a popularizer of \"a new slang vernacular.\" His obituary also credited him as the originator of \"Twenty-three, Skidoo,\" \"solid ivory,\" \"Dumb Dora,\" \"finale hopper,\" \"Benny\" for hat, and \"dogs'\" for shoes. W. J. Funk, of the Funk and Wagnall's dictionary company, placed Dorgan at the top of the list of the ten \"most fecund makers of American slang.\"\n\nDorgan was erroneously credited with coining the usage of the phrase \"hot dog\" in reference to sausage (see \"Hot dog: Etymology\").\n\nTad Dorgan and his wife, Izole M., lived in a Great Neck, New York house valued at $75,000. They had no biological children, but they raised two Chinese children to adulthood. Dorgan retired from attending sporting events in the early 1920s because of poor health, and a heart ailment kept him at home for the last eight years of his life, but he continued to produce sports comics for Hearst until his death. He died in Great Neck of heart disease, hastened by pneumonia. Hearst newspapers announced his passing in front-page headlines and some of his cartoons were reprinted for a short time. Izole Dorgan, a writer before she married, was the vice-president of the National Doll and Toy Collectors Club. After Tad's death, she started a successful business manufacturing doll furniture.\n\nDorgan's first book collection was \"Daffydills\", published by Cupples & Leon in 1911. This was followed by several \"Indoor Sports\" collections.\n\nTad Dorgan was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in 2007 in the category of \"Observer\"; that is, print and media journalists, publishers, writers, historians, photographers, and artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005389", "title": "Armed and Dangerous (video game)", "text": "Armed and Dangerous (video game)\n\nArmed and Dangerous is a 2003 video game created by Planet Moon Studios and released by LucasArts. It is a third-person action-adventure shooter which parodies both other games and several other media such as \"The Lord of the Rings\", \"Star Wars\", and \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\", using humorous in-game dialogue and cutscenes. The game features known actors and voice actors such as Brian George as main hero Roman, Jeff Bennett, John Mariano and Pat Fraley as his sidekicks Jonesy, Rexus and Q (respectively) and Tony Jay as villain King Forge.\n\n\"Armed and Dangerous\" is a third-person shooter action game, the camera hovering behind Roman, the player character, at all times. The game is played mostly on foot, with most levels incorporating usable gun emplacements, although there are some base defense levels where the player is inside a movable gun turret mounted on rails on top of a defensive wall; these levels are played in first-person.\n\nPlayable weaponry and equipment in Armed and Dangerous is a mix of shooter staples, including bolt-action and sniper rifles, submachine guns and rocket launchers, but also more unusual fare like the 'Land Shark Gun', which fires into the ground a rapidly maturing infant Land Shark, a creature that 'swims' through the earth, seeking out and devouring enemies. Other unusual devices include a miniature black hole, a gas grenade that turns enemies against each other, and a device that temporarily reverses gravity, causing enemies to 'fall' into the sky and literally turning the world upside-down before the device shuts down, returning gravity to normal and returning affected enemies to earth, killing them by the fall. Apart from weaponry, some of the later levels equip the player with a jet pack, allowing flight over moderate distances.\n\nThe game received \"generally favorable reviews\" on both platforms according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nOn November 28, 2007, Microsoft released the backward compatibility update for the Xbox 360 which allows Xbox 360 owners to play the Xbox disc version of Armed and Dangerous.\n\nOn June 10, 2019, Microsoft announced the ending of the backward compatibility program for the Xbox One for both Xbox Original and 360 titles. Armed and Dangerous were among the last batch of Xbox Original titles made compatible on the Xbox One system.\n\nThe ending of the backward compatibility program is to add more focus on the upcoming new Xbox \"Project Scarlet\" as well as backward compatibility for the new system including Original, 360 and One titles, so Armed and Dangerous will be playable on all 4 generations of Xbox.\n\nAlong with the June 10 announcement, Armed and Dangerous was added to the Xbox Marketplace available as a digital download for Xbox 360, Xbox One and the upcoming \"Project Scarlet\". All disc versions of the game will also be playable on all systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005390", "title": "College of Engineering, Pune", "text": "College of Engineering, Pune\n\nCollege of Engineering Pune (COEP), abbreviated as COEP is an autonomous engineering institute affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University in Pune, Maharashtra, India. Established in 1854, it is one of the oldest engineering colleges in Asia, after College of Engineering, Guindy Chennai (1794) and IIT Roorkee (1847)... It's the top institute in engineering, with admission offered based on state CET exam. The students and alumni of College of Engineering, Pune are colloquially referred to as COEPians. The college's study model was referred to, in the early 1950s, as the \"Poona Model\".\n\nCollege of Engineering, Pune is located at the heart of Pune city at Shivaji Nagar and at the confluence of the rivers Mula and Mutha.\n\nThe college was one of the first few colleges established by the British to serve the Indian subcontinent. The foundation stone of the new college was laid by the Governor of Bombay, Sir Bartle Frere, who was to become the Vice-Chancellor of the University, on 5 August 1865. In June of the following year, Theodore Cooke M.A., was appointed the Principal. He went on to hold the office for next 28 years.\nInitially, it was started on December 16, 1854, to train public works department (PWD) officials and was housed in three bungalows as the ‘Poona Engineering and Mechanical School’ to train subordinate officers for carrying out public works like buildings, dams, canals, railways and bridges. In July 1857, Henry Coke was given the charge of the institute. Admission was open to all, irrespective of nationality or caste. Good proficiency in English and basic knowledge of Mathematics were a prerequisite for getting admitted to the institute. The process of admission required that the aspiring candidate apply to the nearest government English school, to whom the entrance examination papers were handed over. The headmaster would take the examination on a date deemed convenient to him and submit the answer sheets to Henry Coke, the in-charge of the mechanical school. After examining the papers, Coke would notify the headmaster of the school with the names of candidates who were deemed fit for admission. Scholarships of 6 were offered per month after a period of six months of training in the mechanical school for fifteen students. The courses offered included Mathematics, Drawing, Surveying and levelling, building and construction and setting out works on the ground. The course would run for a period of two years.\n\nLater on, in the year 1864, the school became the \"Poona Civil Engineering College\". The number of courses were increased to include forestry and agricultural subjects, which led to its name being changed to Poona College of Science. The college was inaugurated at the new premises on August 5, 1865, at the hands of then governor Sir Bertel Ferre. It started a course in licensed and civil engineering (LCE) and trained masons and overseers. Later it secured affiliation to the Bombay university. The course was revised in 1886 and the minimum criteria required for admission was raised from Matriculation to the then Previous Examination.\n\nIn 1909, the LCE was converted into the BE degree and the first batch of students passed out in 1912. The name ‘Government college of engineering, Pune’ was taken up only in 1911. All non-engineering courses were stopped by 1911, transferring the Bachelor of Science degree to the Science Institute of Bombay and subsequently in the year 1911, the name was changed to the \"Government College of Engineering, Poona\".\nThe institution was initially affiliated to the University of Bombay (now Mumbai) for a degree of Licentiate in Civil Engineering known as LCE in 1858. The certificate course was converted into a degree course and the first class of the Bachelor of Engineering degree graduated in the year 1912. After the University of Poona (now Savitribai Phule Pune University) was established in 1948, the college became affiliated to the new university. In 1968, the three-year degree was extended to 4 years constituting 8 semesters.\n\nIn 2003, the institute was granted complete autonomy by the State Government of Maharashtra, thus giving it the freedom to set its own curriculum and manage its own finances. With permanent affiliation to the Savitribai Phule Pune University, the institute now is an autonomous engineering school. This has been the biggest change as far as pedagogy at COEP is concerned. The following years have seen a multitude of positive changes in administration and academic strategies. Many of these have been responsible for the growing innovation in project work of college students. The institute contends that its autonomy now grants it greater flexibility in dynamically changing its syllabus to suit the changing needs of the industry.\n\nThe National Board of Accreditation, has accredited all programmes under Tier-2 (General) status for a period of 5 years from 2012. In the year 2014, 9 undergraduate programmes were accredited with tier-1 (Washington Accord) status. This particular accreditation gives way to recognition of the quality of undergraduate engineering education offered by the member country and is an avenue to bring it into the world class category. It encourages and facilitates the mobility of engineering graduates and professionals at international level. The tier-1 accreditation is effective from 01/07/2014 for a period of five years.\n\nThe main hall is the present day administrative building of the College. It houses the Director, the Dean Academic Affairs, the Dean Student Affairs, the Gymkhana, the Examination cell and other various important administrative heads of the college. The original building was almost three floors tall with a base floor length of 18 meters and a width of 9 metres. The hall was recently refurbished and the inauguration of the restored heritage building (pictured below) took place on 24 March 2012 by Sharad Pawar, Minister of Agriculture, Government of India.\n\nUndergraduate admissions to the College of Engineering, Pune are competitive and are based on merit. Earlier admissions were based upon the percentage of science subjects' marks secured in Higher Secondary Certificate exam of Maharashtra state and later on the basis of marks scored in Maharashtra Common Entrance Test. However, at present the admissions are conducted on the basis of the marks secured in Maharashtra CET and HSC board combined. These admissions are conducted by the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) through the Centralized Admission Process(CAP). Affirmative action programs exist for students belonging to socially and economically backward classes as stipulated in the Constitution of India and various statutes. There are programs for students from north-eastern India and Indian citizens from Kashmir. There are also programs for children of people working in Gulf countries, foreign nationals, foreign students and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) in the college. Non-Resident Indians can also apply for the courses.For the year 2015-16 this quota is applicable for admissions to Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli and Laxminarayan Institute of Technology. The reservations for different categories are based on the Government of India and Government of Maharashtra rules.\nReservations in seats are provided for SC (Schedule Caste), ST (Schedule Tribes), NT (Nomadic Tribes), OBC (Other Backward Classes), PH (Physically Handicapped) as well as female candidates. It has been included in the Guinness Book of world records, several admissions to direct second year of B.Tech. course are also conducted for those candidates who have completed Diploma in Engineering at different polytechnic institutes in the state of Maharashtra. These admissions are conducted through the Centralized Admission Process (CAP) by DTE itself.\n\nPostgraduate admissions to the College of Engineering, Pune are also on merit basis. The M.tech admissions are on the basis of the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering(GATE) conducted by the seven old IITs and the IISc. Seat reservations are applicable as per the Government of Maharashtra rules.\nThe college also provides Doctor of Philosophy(Ph.D) programmes in various fields.\nDepartment of Applied Sciences is recognised as Ph.D. research centre by S.P. Pune University in the subjects of Environmental Sciences and Chemistry.\n\nCOEP is the hub of various curricular, extra-curricular and technical activities which attracts participation and praise alike from numerous colleges in India.\n\nMindSpark is the national level annual technical festival hosted by the college and established in 2007. The idea behind MindSpark originated from the need to unite various departmental level festivals that were scattered across the academic calendar. It features about 50 events across various disciplines of engineering and has been backed by the support of industrial sponsors who also associate with COEP for placement. This event is usually scheduled in an odd semester (around September) and is of 3 days(usually weekend).\n\nThe College of Engineering, Pune is among the few colleges in the world which hosts an annual regatta. Since its inception in 1928, it has showcased around 165 boats, notably the \"Eighter\", which is one of the oldest boats. The 91st edition of Regatta was held on 10 March 2019. Unlike a Regatta which means a collection of boat races, COEP Boat Club's Regatta is a show of various kinds of boats, kayaks, punts, shell boats and scull boats. The events in this show are Telematches, Kayak Ballet, Shell Games, Punt Formation, Mashaal Dance and the Arrow formation.\n\nCOEP has been one of the leading colleges from Pune in various cultural competitions like Firodiya Karandak, Purushottam Karandak, Mood Indigo (festival).\n\nIn 2016, COEP started its first ever Cultural Fest, Impressions, which is held every year in the 2nd week of December and lasts for 3 days. Impressions was formed as a platform \"for the artists, by the artists\", to provide opportunities for people from the fields of dance, music, theatre, art, and fashion to display their talent. The events span over six main modules, namely - Dance, Music, Arts and Crafts, Dramatics, Photography, and Writing.\n\nIn 2004, COEP celebrated 150 years of its existence. The celebrations were marked by a visit by the Hon. Ex-President of India, Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. A postage stamp to mark the 150th anniversary of the college was released.\n\nThe college has made three entries so far in the Guinness World Record books. It holds the record for \"Most people skipping on the same rope\", which still stands as the world record and \"The longest painting by numbers\"\n\nOn 4 November 2012, 3248 people solved the Rubik's cube at the same time for breaking the Guinness world record for \"Most number of people solving the Rubik's cube\". It was previously held by IITB, where 937 students solved the puzzle within 30 minutes in March 2012.\n\nBaja Competition is an event which comprises designing, fabricating, assembling an all-terrain four wheeler vehicle and running it on a specially prepared torturous track in a grueling competition for four hours.\n\nThe College team was declared the overall winner at the Baja SAE India contest 2013 held at Pithampur, near Indore at the National Automotive Testing and R&D Infrastructure Project. The team also won the Best Acceleration, the Raftaar award, CAE(Computer Aided Engineering) award, Best Build Quality, Endurance winner awards.\n\nBAJA 2015 witnessed COEP starting at the pole position in the race consecutively for the fourth time by being the fastest vehicle. COEP received a total of following 9 awards in BAJA competition 2015, Overall-1st, Durability -1st, Acceleration-1st, Hill Climb-1st, Raftaar-1st, Innovation-2nd, CAE -2nd, Build Quality- 2nd, Safest Vehicle -2nd.\n\nBAJA 2016 was held at Pithampur, Indore on 21 February 2016. COEP started at the pole position in the race consecutively for the fifth time by being the fastest vehicle. Out of the 14 award categories, COEP won 11 awards in BAJA competition 2016 retaining the Overall Championship.\n\nCOEP team Nemesis won overall championship at BAJA 2017 competition creating a hat trick of records. In the 10th edition of Mahindra BAJA, a total of 415 entries applied for the event from 185 colleges that participated at a virtual stage, out of which 150 teams were selected for m- BAJA, while 35 teams for eBAJA. In the final round or the endurance test, 118 teams participated in the competition which was held from 16 to 21 February 2017 at the NATRIP facility in Pithampur, Indore. Out of the 12 award categories, COEP won 7 awards in BAJA competition 2017 retaining the Overall Championship.\n\nCOEP's Robotics Team is represented by the Robot Study Circle (RSC). The Club has industrial collaboration with Siemens PLM as a title sponsor, Janatics Pneumatics, Schmalz India, Pepperl & Fuchs, and Robolab Technologies. Members of RSC are members of the first ever institute student chapter of THE ROBOTICS SOCIETY established in India at College of Engineering Pune. The robotics team has a number of awards and in 2017 team won the national ABU Robocon, going on to represent India in International Robocon held at Tokyo, Japan. RSC placed 6th.\n\nThe satellite team also known as CSAT is CoEP's satellite initiative. They successfully worked on project Swayam a 1-U picosatellite which was launched by ISRO on June 22, 2016.\nAfter the successful launch of Swayam, CSAT is now working on its next mission: an experiment for alternate means of space travel with the help of solar sails.\n\nCOEP was ranked 15 among engineering colleges in India by \"Outlook India\" in 2019. The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked it 49 in the engineering ranking in 2019 and 91 overall.\n\n\nIn December 2005 the Pune Municipal Corporation asked the college for some of its land for road widening. This led to considerable outrage amongst students, and the issue was under heated debate. It was pointed out that the college was classified as a 'heritage complex' by the state government.\n\n1854–1870: Poona Engineering Class and Mechanical School\n\n1871–1911: Government Science College(Agriculture and Botany Classes)\n\n1911–2003: Government College of Engineering, Pune\n\n2003–2006: Pune Institute of Engineering and Technology\n\n2006 onwards: College of Engineering, Pune\n\nIn 2000, COEP claimed independence from the state government and was declared an autonomous institute in 2003. Considerable confusion ensued over a proposed name change from COEP to Pune Institute of Engineering and Technology (PIET) which was strongly opposed by alumni and students. The newly autonomous entity's name was rolled back to COEP in November 2005.\n\nThe College was at loggerheads with the Pune Municipal Corporation over the proposed construction of a flyover in front of the college, that would not only deface the renovated Main Hall but would also encroach upon the College's premises. The College and its alumni were of the opinion that the flyover would not, in any way, decongest the traffic plying through that road. It also considered the flyover as serious danger to the safety of the pedestrians, including students, as it was not considered in the plan of the flyover. Many civic activists and organisations supported the College's opinion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005391", "title": "KXTX-TV", "text": "KXTX-TV\n\nKXTX-TV, virtual channel 39 (UHF digital channel 36), is a Telemundo owned-and-operated television station licensed to Dallas, Texas, United States and serving the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex. The station is owned by the Telemundo Station Group subsidiary of NBCUniversal (itself a subsidiary of Comcast), as part of a duopoly with Fort Worth-licensed NBC owned-and-operated station KXAS-TV (channel 5). The two stations share studios at the CentrePort Business Park on Amon Carter Boulevard (near the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport) in Fort Worth; KXTX-TV's transmitter is located south of Belt Line Road in Cedar Hill.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on February 5, 1968, under the call sign KDTV. The station was founded by Trigg-Vaughn, the original applicant of the construction permit to build its broadcasting facilities; the permit was subsequently acquired by Doubleday Broadcasting; the company eventually moved its headquarters from New York City to Dallas on June 18, 1969, with KDTV serving as the company's flagship television property. Channel 39 operated from a state-of-the-art studio facility located at 3900 Harry Hines Boulevard, near downtown Dallas, which cost $3 million to build.\n\nOriginally operating as an independent station, the station carried the \"Stock Market Observer\", a daytime business news programming block that aired each weekday morning and afternoon from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (the format was first used in the market by KAEI-TV (channel 29, allocation now occupied by Estrella TV owned-and-operated station KMPX-TV) during that station's single year of operation in 1964); it also carried a broad mix of general entertainment programming during the late-afternoon and evening hours, consisting of a mix of feature films, off-network syndicated programs, sporting events as well as Japanese cartoons dubbed into English (including \"Speed Racer\" and \"Johnny Cypher in Dimension Zero\"). It also carried some local programming including the public affairs program \"3900 Harry Hines\", cooking show \"The Gourmet\" (which originated on CBS affiliate KDFW-TV (channel 4, now a Fox owned-and-operated station) before moving to KDTV in October 1971) and children's program \"The Bozo Show\" (a localized version of the \"Bozo the Clown\" franchise featuring a mix of locally produced and syndicated segments). On May 7, 1969, KDTV's transmitter tower in Cedar Hill collapsed after hit by straight-line winds during a severe thunderstorm; the collapse effectively knocked the station off the air for twelve days, before improvising a temporary transmitter. The station later constructed a new tower at a cost of $450,000, resuming full-power transmissions on October 30 of that year.\n\nIn June 1973, after substantial financial losses and a failed sale attempt, Doubleday announced that it was seeking to donate KDTV to a non-profit organization. Doubleday attempted to donate it to three different non-profit interests—Area Education Television Foundation, Inc., the Dallas Independent School District (both of which owned PBS member station KERA-TV (channel 13) at the time) and Berean Fellowship International (whose KBFI-TV (channel 33) had closed for financial reasons just six months prior). However, neither entity accepted Doubleday's offer, as the terms of the donation proposal required the prospective owner to assume a large amount of KDTV's debt and its programming commitments. Doubleday would ultimately find an organization willing to acquire the Channel 39 license and assets when it was approached by the Christian Broadcasting Network. CBN had just entered the Dallas television market by buying KBFI-TV from Berean and returning it to the air in April as independent station KXTX-TV. On June 27, CBN announced that it had been chosen to take on the KDTV facilities, programming and contractual obligations, and channel 39 license; Pat Robertson estimated the network would pay $2.9 million over 10 years, nearly half of that in film contracts from KDTV, and announced its plans to merge KXTX-TV's staff and programming with that of KDTV. CBN agreed to Doubleday's proposal to donate Channel 39's programming inventory and broadcast license to CBN on November 9, 1973.\n\nFour days after CBN acquired ownership of the license, on November 14, channel 33 shut down. The KXTX-TV call letters, staff and programming moved from channel 33 to channel 39. KXTX-TV became a full-time commercial independent station.\n\nAs was the structure of CBN's other independent stations, KXTX maintained a format consisting primarily of religious programs as well as some secular general entertainment programming. By this point, its slate of secular content – comprising about twelve hours of its daily schedule each weekday and Saturday—consisted of off-network classic sitcoms (such as \"The Brady Bunch\", \"McHale's Navy\" and \"The Andy Griffith Show\"); drama series (such as \"\"); cartoons (such as Tom and Jerry and Looney Tunes animated shorts, \"Scooby-Doo\", \"The Jetsons\", \"Jonny Quest\" and \"The Flintstones\"); a variety of classic movies from the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s; and westerns. Local programming on KXTX included \"Reflect\", a public affairs talk show co-hosted by Don Hall and Durline Dunham, which aired every Sunday evening at 6:30 and 11:00 p.m. It also ran religious programs for about five hours per day during the week and throughout its Sunday schedule; the CBN-produced variety/talk show, \"The 700 Club\", also aired on the station three times per day each weekday.\n\nWhile KXTX-TV operated as a conventional independent station by this time its programming policy was decidedly conservative, in keeping with the ministry's Baptist/charismatic religious views. Secular programming acquired for the station's schedule was specifically chosen to contain minimal to no sexual content, overt violence, depictions of the occult, or strong profanity; for many years, any dialogue containing profanity within its programs were muted, and episodes of syndicated programs that contained subject matter that did not fit CBN's content standards were occasionally replaced with other episodes. In 1977, CBN began attempts to establish regional distribution of its independent stations via cable television amid the growing success of Atlanta independent WTCG (later WTBS, and now the separate WPCH-TV within Atlanta and the cable-originated TBS nationwide) that followed Ted Turner's December 1976 expansion of that station into a national satellite-delivered superstation. From that point onward, KXTX's signal was being imported by several cable systems in other media markets throughout the South Central United States—with its distribution being concentrated mainly in other portions of Texas outside the main broadcast signal's coverage area as well as systems in Oklahoma, Louisiana and Arkansas—as a regional superstation. By the end of the 1970s, KXTX maintained an approximately 20-hour-a-day programming schedule, with secular programming encompassing around 15 hours of its Monday through Saturday lineup. In September 1980, KXTX reduced its lineup of religious programming on Sundays from that day's entire schedule to two separate blocks from 6:00 to 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to midnight, with secular shows being incorporated to fill out the schedule on Sunday afternoons.\n\nFor its first three decades as an independent station, KXTX ranked behind rival independent KTVT (channel 11) in the ratings. However, by 1983, the station's competitors began overextending themselves to acquire the strongest programming. KTXA (channel 21) converted into a full-time general entertainment station in September of that year, after discontinuing its nighttime-only affiliation with ONTV; KNBN-TV on Channel 33 shifted from a part-time business news and general entertainment format to a full-time entertainment-based station as KRLD-TV, and began to feature a strong inventory of programming by 1986; KDFI-TV (channel 27) also adopted a full-time general entertainment format in 1984. As a result, KXTX shifted its programming focus away from cartoons and classic sitcoms, and more toward westerns, family-oriented drama series and movies. Also around this time, many cable providers outside of the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex began to drop the station, in order to avoid copyright payment liability amid the Copyright Royalty Tribunal's January 1983 establishment of a 3.75% royalty fee—based on a cable system's gross receipts from subscribers—for any distant signals carried by their local system. Many of the providers that dropped KXTX elected to keep rival independent KTVT, which had started to be offered as a regional superstation around the same time KXTX was, and would begin transmitting via satellite by way of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based United Video Satellite Group in July 1984. KXTX, meanwhile, continued to see its regional distribution gradually decline until its signal ceased being imported outside the Dallas–Fort Worth DMA entirely in 1986.\n\nIn the spring of 1986, KXTX reached an agreement with WFAA-TV (channel 8) to carry ABC prime time programming preempted by that station in favor of locally produced specials, breaking news coverage or feature films scheduled by WFAA for the purpose of makegood sales to local advertisers; this arrangement was short-lived, as a result of a situation on April 16 of that year, in which WFAA (by way of cooperation with KXTX management) had to delay a scheduled movie telecast to air an ABC News special report on President Ronald Reagan's prime time address regarding the U.S. military's missile strikes on Libya. In April 1986, the Christian Broadcasting Network announced that it would sell its independent stations—KXTX, WXNE-TV in Boston, and WYAH-TV in Portsmouth, Virginia; however, the ministry was ultimately unable to find a buyer for KXTX. The station began broadcasting infomercials during the morning and overnight hours by 1990.\n\nBy the early 1990s, KXTX's schedule consisted mostly of paid programming and some religious programs, a limited number of drama series, westerns, and low-budget movies. For years, KXTX was known in the Dallas-Fort Worth market for its \"Western Weekends\", a weekly lineup of classic westerns from the 1950s through the 1970s that aired during the afternoon and early evening hours on Saturday and Sundays—which included among others \"The Lone Ranger\", \"The Rifleman\", \"Bonanza\", \"Rawhide\", \"Little House on the Prairie\", \"Gunsmoke\" and \"The Big Valley\"—with movies based on these shows often airing on weekend evenings (writer/director, and former Dallas resident, Mike Judge added several references to the \"Channel 39\" weekend Kung Fu programming in his 1999 movie \"Office Space\").\n\nIn the spring of 1993, LIN Broadcasting assumed management responsibilities for Channel 39 under a local marketing agreement. Under this agreement, Fort Worth-based NBC affiliate KXAS-TV (channel 5)—which LIN owned at the time—began pooling some first-run syndicated programs seen on KXAS for broadcast on KXTX and allowed it to air rebroadcasts of KXAS's 6:00 and 10:00 p.m. newscasts. In addition, during the mid- to late 1990s, KXTX also aired the first few hours of the \"Jerry Lewis MDA Labor Day Telethon\" on the Sunday night before Labor Day from 8:00 until KXAS took over carriage of the broadcast at 11:00 p.m.\nOn September 14, 1994, Gaylord Broadcasting reached an affiliation agreement with CBS, under which rival independent KTVT take over as the network's Dallas–Fort Worth affiliate, in exchange for also switching its sister independent station in Tacoma, Washington, KSTW (now a CW owned-and-operated station), to the network. The agreement superseded an existing contract that Gaylord had reached to affiliate KTVT with The WB, whose majority owner Time Warner would file an injunction in an attempt to dissolve its existing agreement with that group for KTVT, KSTW and KHTV (now CW affiliate KIAH) in Houston (the latter of which would ultimately join the network when it launched). The WB later reached an affiliation agreement with KDAF, which Fox Television Stations had announced it would sell as a result of an agreement that the Fox Broadcasting Company reached with New World Communications, which acquired CBS affiliate KDFW in a four-station deal from Argyle Television Holdings (along with fellow CBS affiliate KTBC-TV in Austin, ABC affiliate KTVI in St. Louis and NBC affiliate WVTM-TV in Birmingham, the latter of which was exempted from the New World-Fox agreement) for $717 million on May 26.\n\nSince KDAF could not join the network until KDFW's affiliation contract with CBS expired and Fox moved its programming to that station, The WB entered into a temporary affiliation arrangement with KXTX-TV, under which it would serve as the network's Metroplex charter affiliate in the interim until Fox Television Stations' sale of KDAF to Renaissance Communications was finalized and the Fox affiliation concurrently moved to KDFW. Channel 39 became the market's WB affiliate at the network's launch on January 11, 1995. Since The WB initially aired only one night of programming each week for the first nine months of its existence (airing on Wednesdays), KXTX was still essentially programmed as a \"de facto\" independent station, continuing to air movies in prime time on other nights during the week and series on Saturdays and Sundays.\n\nFox's prime time and sports programming moved from KDAF to KDFW on July 2, 1995, with the CBS affiliation concurrently moving to KTVT; three days later on July 5, KDAF (which later came under Renaissance ownership on July 9) officially took over the WB affiliation, rendering KXTX as a true independent once again. That August, KXTX entered into a programming arrangement with KTVT, under which it would serve as a backup carrier of CBS programs on dates when KTVT was scheduled to air Major League Baseball game telecasts involving the Texas Rangers that forced their preemptions from their recommended time slots on the latter station.\n\nOn October 12, 1996, an accident caused by a crew conducting maintenance on the structure resulted in the collapse of the station's transmitter tower in Cedar Hill. KXTX and three local FM radio stations were briefly knocked off the air before the stations improvised temporary transmitter facilities, where they operated from for many months; KXTX's interim transmitter was located at the nearby tower belonging to KXAS, while the radio stations built their facilities on other existing towers nearby.\n\nFor a time in 1997, KXTX started airing the NBC soap opera \"Another World\" at 3 p.m. after the show was displaced from its 2 p.m. slot on KXAS in favor of \"Sunset Beach\", another NBC soap opera. It was also due to the fact that KXAS also had to fulfill an obligation with one of its syndication partners at 3 p.m.\n\nOn October 23, 1997, as part of LIN Television's acquisition by Dallas-based investment firm Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst, LIN contributed the sale of a 76% majority equity interest in KXAS-TV to a joint venture with NBC Inc., which in turn would contribute a 24% share of San Diego owned-and-operated station KNSD to Hicks Muse, predicated on the firm acquiring and closing on its deal with LIN. The takeover and joint venture deals were completed on March 2, 1998, when NBC and LIN formally established Station Venture Holdings, L.P. to serve as the licensee of KXAS and KNSD. Through NBC's assumption of majority interest over KXAS, the station terminated its LMA with KXTX.\n\nIn June 2000, Southwest Sports Television – a subsidiary of the Southwest Sports Group, a holding company founded by Texas Rangers and Dallas Stars owner Thomas O. Hicks – announced that it would purchase KXTX from the Christian Broadcasting Network outright for $1 million. At the time of the sale, KXTX had been CBN's sole remaining commercial television property for several years; because its television properties had grown too profitable to remain under the CBN banner without endangering the ministry's non-profit status (federal regulations enforced by the Internal Revenue Service prohibit non-profit organizations from owning for-profit entities that account for a substantial portion of its activities), CBN spun off The Family Channel to International Family Entertainment in 1990, and had begun a gradual sell-off of its four independent stations in 1984, when it sold WANX-TV (now CBS affiliate WGCL-TV) in Atlanta to Tribune Broadcasting. Hicks had maintained a programming agreement with KXTX since 1995, intending to build a sports network around the teams he acquired beginning that year and to better monetize their television rights. The sale came after Southwest Sports Group sold the television rights to the Rangers and Stars to regional sports network Fox Sports Net Southwest.\n\nOne month later in July 2000, Hicks announced that it would subsequently sell KXTX for $85.55 million to Pappas Telecasting Companies, which had formed a partnership with Mexico City-based broadcaster TV Azteca to launch a Spanish language television network, to be known as Azteca América. Upon that disclosure in its FCC purchase application, CBN founder Pat Robertson included a stipulation in the Pappas sale agreement that required the group to broadcast the station's programming entirely in English until May 31, 2001 with an opt-out clause that could be exercised on December 31, 2000 (Robertson had long endorsed, particularly through his Christian Coalition of America organization, that English should be the official language of the United States), and required Hicks to lease an hour of airtime on KXTX each weekday morning to CBN-produced programming, including \"The 700 Club\" (a stipulation similar to that which CBN imposed on the cable channel now known as Freeform to its subsequent owners following the sale to IFE).\n\nPlans for KXTX under Pappas called for it to serve as the flagship station of Azteca América and base the network's technical operations center at its studios, where the network's programming, promotions and commercial spots would be automatically fed to its affiliates. These plans were aborted, when the Pappas-Azteca venture scaled back their plans for the network after failing to secure financing from lenders to purchase KXTX, as well as stations in Phoenix and El Paso, an issue blamed on the slowdown of the global economy at that time as well as technical issues that delayed the sign-on of the venture's Los Angeles station, KAZA-TV, and the December 2000 purchase of USA Broadcasting's independent and Home Shopping Network-affiliated television stations by Univision Communications, which prevented the network from initially obtaining charter stations in thirteen major markets, among them, competing independent station KSTR-TV (channel 49).\n\nOn June 27, 2001, Southwest Sports Television announced that it would sell KXTX to the Telemundo Communications Group, which later disclosed in FCC filings released that August that it acquired the station for $65 million. More than three months later on October 11, NBC Inc. purchased Telemundo from a consortium of Sony Pictures Entertainment, Liberty Media, and private equity firms BV Capital, Bastion Capital and Council Tree Communications for $1.98 billion (increasing to $2.68 billion before the sale's closure) and the assumption of $700 million in debt, including the existing sale agreement for KXTX in the transaction. The deal in effect, ironically, made KXTX and KXAS sister stations again, this time under common ownership, creating the Dallas–Fort Worth market's third television station duopoly (after CBS owned-and-operated station KTVT and then-UPN affiliate KTXA, and Univision owned-and-operated station KUVN and KSTR-TV, the latter of which became a charter affiliate of TeleFutura on January 14, 2002). While Telemundo already had an affiliate in KFWD (channel 52, now a SonLife Broadcasting Network affiliate), which had carried the network since it signed on in September 1988, the network had been looking to buy a station in what had become the eighth-largest media market in terms of overall Hispanic population.\n\nIn September 2001, Hicks announced plans to consolidate the roughly $190 million of debt owed by the Stars, the Rangers and KXTX (the latter of which comprised about $50 million of the debt owed by Southwest Sports Group) as part of a corporate refinancing that would repackage the debt into a single loan. In November of that year, KXTX began airing a handful of episodes of several older westerns from the 1950s (such as \"Jim Bowie\") in repeat blocks, as well as marathons of B-movies featured on the film showcase \"Off Beat Cinema\" during the station's final weeks as an English language outlet.\nKXTX became an owned-and-operated station of the Spanish language network on January 1, 2002; KFWD subsequently became an English-language independent station (the station would eventually revert to a Spanish language programming format in August 2012, as a charter affiliate of MundoFox). Following the sale's closure, KXTX also integrated its operations into KXAS's Broadcast Hill studio facilities on Barnett Street in eastern Fort Worth. After KXTX switched to Telemundo, many of the western series that were previously on the station's schedule found a home in the Dallas–Fort Worth market for a time on Pax TV (now Ion Television) owned-and-operated station KPXD-TV (channel 68). The rest of KXTX's meager programming inventory was acquired by KFWD, which also purchased the rights to some of KSTR-TV's syndicated programming in the run-up to its concurrent conversion into a TeleFutura O&O.\n\nOn November 19, 2009, a fire in the electrical room of the station's Broadcast Hill studios knocked both stations off the air. Fire alarms were activated throughout the facility at 9:30 p.m. that evening, which resulted in staff members being evacuated from the studio; this resulted in the disruption of that evening's scheduled broadcasts of the 10:00 p.m. newscasts seen respectively on KXAS and KXTX.\n\nIn June 2012, NBCUniversal announced plans to construct a new facility in Fort Worth (located at the CentrePort Business Park on the former site of Amon Carter Field) to house KXAS, KXTX and NBCUniversal's other Dallas-based operations (including the Dallas news bureau operated by NBC News). Construction of the facility began that month, and was completed in September 2013, with the building formally opening on September 30. The facility incorporates four production studios; three control rooms that relay high definition content; a combined media asset management center and newsroom production suite for managing and editing content; the station's traffic and sales departments, which were previously in separate areas of the Broadcast Hill studios, were also placed adjacent to the newsroom. The sales and marketing departments of the television stations, and NBC's ArtWorks graphics firm began migrating their operations to the facility in early October of that year; all other operations—including the news departments of KXAS and KXTX—moved to the Carter Boulevard studio by November 1, ending KXAS's 65-year tenure at Broadcast Hill.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKXTX-TV also has plans to operate a Mobile DTV feed of digital subchannel 39.1.\n\nKXTX began transmitting a digital television signal on UHF channel 40 on August 1, 2002. KXTX-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 39, at 10:35 p.m. on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 40; independent station KLDT (virtual channel 55, now Azteca América affiliate KAZD) moved its digital signal to KXTX's former channel 39 allocation at the same time, using PSIP to display KXTX-TV's virtual channel as 39 on digital television receivers.\n\nAs KDTV, the station also held broadcast rights to games from the Dallas Blackhawks and Fort Worth Wings hockey, Dallas-Fort Worth Spurs baseball, Dallas Tornado soccer and Dallas Chaparrals basketball teams. It also broadcast the Dallas Cowboys football game review program \"The Frank Glieber Cowboys Report\", hosted by the team's color commentator, from 1968 to 1970. As KXTX, during the late 1980s, the station took over the rights to the two-hour weekly wrestling program \"Championship Sports\", which had aired Saturday nights on KTVT since the mid-1970s and also carried the syndicated version of the World Class Championship Wrestling's weekly program (KTVT concurrently aired the locally produced version of the program, \"Saturday Night Wrestling\").\n\nIn August 1995, as part of the same agreement that allowed it to carry CBS programs seen on that station, KXTX entered into a sports programming arrangement with KTVT, in which the station would carry select Texas Rangers Major League Baseball games that were produced by and contracted to air on Channel 11, but could not be carried by that station due to a clause in the station's affiliation contract with CBS that limited the number of programming preemptions it could make on an annual basis. KXTX obtained the exclusive local over-the-air broadcast rights to the Rangers beginning with the 1996 season, through the same deal with Southwest Sports Group that included the formation of its local marketing agreement with the Christian Broadcasting Network. Most of the team's KXTX telecasts that were held in prime time and weekend daytime slots were syndicated to minor network affiliates and independent stations throughout the South Central United States through the Rangers' regional television network.\n\nAfter Thomas Hicks acquired that team, Channel 39 also took over the local rights to televise National Hockey League (NHL) games featuring the Dallas Stars during the 1999–2000 season, assuming the over-the-air rights from rival independent station KDFI. The station carried at least 28 regular season games as well as two preseason games involving the Stars, with play-by-play audio of the telecasts bring simulcast on news-talk radio station WBAP (820 AM). KXTX lost the rights to both Hicks-owned teams after the Rangers' 1999–2000 season and the Stars' 2000 regular season, after Southwest Sports sold the regional television rights to both teams to Fox Sports Southwest under a 15-year broadcast contract with the regional sports network worth $515 million.\n\n, KXTX-TV presently broadcasts 14½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 2½ hours on weekdays, and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays). In addition, the station produces the half-hour entertainment and lifestyle program \"Acceso Total\", which airs on weekday mornings and the half-hour public affairs program \"Enfoque T39\" (a local version of Telemundo's Sunday morning talk show \"Enfoque\"), which airs on Sunday mornings.\n\nAs an independent station, from 1981 to 1985, KXTX aired 60-second live news and weather updates, branded as the \"Update News\", that aired during commercial breaks within the station's daytime and evening programming on the station. In September 1993, following its entrance into the local marketing agreement between the Christian Broadcasting Network and LIN Broadcasting, the station began airing rebroadcasts of NBC affiliate KXAS-TV's 6:00 and 10:00 p.m. newscasts on a half-hour delay (at 6:30 and 10:30 p.m.); the rebroadcasts were discontinued in March 1998, following the termination of the LMA.\n\nAfter Telemundo Communications Group acquired KXTX, the company chose to invest in the creation of a news department for KXTX in preparation for the station's conversion into a Telemundo O&O. The news operation formally launched on May 6, 2002, with the debut of half-hour Spanish language newscasts at 5:00 and 10:00 p.m. each weeknight. Since the news department launched, KXTX has traditionally placed second to Univision owned-and-operated station KUVN among the Dallas-Fort Worth market's Spanish language newscasts. Following the imposition of company-wide budget reductions by NBC Universal in 2006, Telemundo converted KXTX's production facilities within the Broadcast Hill complex into a production hub that would assume production responsibilities for local newscasts aired by several of its sister owned-and-operated stations in the Southwestern U.S., including KVDA in San Antonio and KTMD in Houston. The move resulted in Telemundo shutting down the in-house news department operated by the affected Telemundo O&Os in 2007, with the locally produced news programs being replaced by a regional newscast produced out of the Fort Worth facility. The hubbing of local news production by Telemundo Stations Group attracted criticism from the National Association of Hispanic Journalists, including formal statements against NBC Universal decrying the move.\n\nNBCUniversal would reverse course in 2010, due to conditions it agreed upon to the FCC while seeking approval of its then-ongoing acquisition by Comcast, when it began resuming in-house news production at the affected stations as part of a clause in the agreement to make improvements in its stations' news operations through a benefits package by NBCUniversal. On February 1, when news production resumed at KTMD and San Francisco sister station KSTS, KXTX launched an early-evening newscast at 5:00 p.m. weeknights, replacing network programming during that half-hour; in addition, the 10:00 p.m. newscast was reformatted to focus upon a single topic among the day's headlines in-depth, in addition to featuring short-form news reports.\n\nKXTX increased its local programming production during the fall of 2011, as part of Telemundo Station Group's group-wide expansion of local news and public affairs programming across its owned-and-operated stations. On September 25, 2011, the station premiered \"Enfoque T39\", a half-hour Sunday morning program focusing on political and other civic issues affecting North Texas' Latino and Hispanic community. Then on November 5, KXTX launched weekend evening editions of its local newscasts at 5:00 and 10:00 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday nights (the newscasts were then branded as \"Noticeiro Telemundo Dallas\", which remained in use until the station restored the previous \"Telemundo 39\" brand in 2012).\n\nCoinciding with the commencement of local programming production at The Studios at DFW facility, KXTX began broadcasting its newscasts and other local programs in high definition on September 30, 2013, becoming the second Spanish-language station and the seventh (and last) television station overall in the Dallas-Fort Worth market to begin broadcasting their newscasts in the format. On September 18, 2014, KXTX premiered a half-hour newscast at 4:30 p.m., one of several Telemundo O&Os that launched expanded late-afternoon newscasts during the 2014-15 season that included an overall revamp of the network's daytime schedule to accommodate the programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005399", "title": "KUVN-DT", "text": "KUVN-DT\n\nKUVN-DT, virtual channel 23 (UHF digital channel 33), is a Univision owned-and-operated television station licensed to Garland, Texas, United States and serving the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex. The station is owned by the Univision Local Media subsidiary of Univision Communications, as part of a duopoly with Irving-licensed UniMás owned-and-operated station KSTR-DT (channel 49). The two stations share studios on Bryan Street (near I-345/US 75) in downtown Dallas; KUVN's transmitter is located south of Belt Line Road in Cedar Hill.\n\nThe UHF channel 23 allocation in the Dallas–Fort Worth market had originally been allocated for KDTX. Lakewood Broadcasting (owned by a coalition of local oilmen), who later signed on KGKO (1480 AM, now KNGO) in January 1953, was issued a construction permit to sign on the station in 1952; the station was never built, and the permit was deleted by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 1955.\n\nThe Richardson Independent School District then signed on an educational television station on channel 23 on February 29, 1960, KRET-TV. It was the first television station in the United States to be owned by a school district (beating KERA-TV [channel 13], which was founded by the Dallas Independent School District, by eight months). Licensed to nearby Richardson, KRET only broadcast on weekdays during the school year for only two hours a day initially, before expanding to the entire school day; five-minute breaks were inserted between programs, which was filled by various pieces of music. Costing only $70,000 to build, it operated out of Richardson Junior High School, before moving to Richardson High School in 1963. Although operating on a full-power license, the station only provided a signal up to from its transmitter. KRET-TV ceased operations in May 1970, and on August 31, was transitioned to the \"TAGER\" closed-circuit television system used for high school and college telecourses; the broadcast license was returned to the FCC.\n\nThe current television station licensed to channel 23 first signed on the air on September 25, 1986 as KIAB; it was founded by International American Broadcasting (owned by local ophthalmologist Dr. Elizabeth Vaughn). The station initially carried a mix of English-language religious programs sourced from the Christian Television Network during the morning hours, Spanish language programming from the Spanish International Network during the afternoon and evening hours, and programming from the Home Shopping Network during the overnight hours. The station originally operated from studios located on Marquis Street in Garland.\n\nVaughan sold KIAB to Univision in 1988, becoming the second commercial network owned-and-operated station in the Dallas market—after KDAF (channel 33; at the time, a charter O&O of Fox); following the purchase, the station changed its call letters to KUVN. At that point, channel 23 began running Univision programming 24 hours a day.\n\nKUVN-CD's construction permit was originally owned by the American Christian Television System and was transferred to Bill Trammell in 1990. In 1994, the station's license was transferred to Rodriguez-Heftel-Texas; the deal was consummated on April 10, 1995. The license was transferred to KESS-TV License Corporation on May 16, 1996. The last transfer to date was (BALTTL-19960510IC) in 1996, in which it was sold to Univision. The station relocated its signal from UHF channel 31 to channel 47 in 2001. KUVN-LP was designated as a Class A low-power station and changed its call letters to KUVN-CA on March 1, 2002. A construction permit was issued by the FCC on August 4, 2008 to allow then-KUVN-CA to operate a digital signal on channel 47, with an effective radiated power of 190 watts. The station was licensed for digital operation on June 3, 2015, and changed its call sign to KUVN-CD. KUVN-CD is not a repeater or a translator, as a Class A station cannot act as merely a repeater or translator.\n\nThe stations' digital signals are multiplexed:\nKUVN shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 23, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 24 to channel 23. Prior to the shutdown of its analog signal, KUVN presented live coverage from Times Square showing the countdown to the nationwide digital transition.\n\nKUVN-DT broadcasts 12 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with two hours each weekday and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays). Following its acquisition by Univision, the network invested in a news department for the station and began producing nightly Spanish language local newscasts at 5:00 and 10:00 p.m. In the summer of 2010, KUVN introduced a new high-definition-ready graphics package for its newscasts, and began using a new news theme (\"Univision 2006\", which was based on the Mark Haffner-composed theme used from 1997 to 2001, \"Turning Point\") which is shared among many Univision affiliates in the United States and Puerto Rico.\n\nOn April 11, 2011, KUVN began broadcasting \"Primera Edicion\" and \"Vive La Mañana\" on Telefutura affiliate KSTR (channel 49). Like its newscasts at different times, it is broadcast in 480i standard definition, within their old studio set. Sister station KXLN-DT in Houston also uses the same titles for their newscasts; \"Vive La Mañana\" features a different graphics and music package shared by both KUVN and KXLN. In 2011, a new set for KUVN's newscasts was introduced. In 2012, KUVN began broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition.\n\nOn March 27, 2015, Univision announced it will replace Univision 23's morning newscast and Univision 45's \"Vive La Mañana\" with a regionalized morning newscast called \"Noticias Texas Primera Edicion\" that will air on Univision's stations in Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, and Austin from 4 am to 6 a.m., meaning that Univision 23's morning show would be cancelled; its last morning newscast was on Friday, March 27, 2015. The station's morning news anchors got relocated to Houston where the new regionalized morning newscast will air and where it is based. The station will also have morning news briefs and local, live cut-ins during \"Despierta America\" and the regionalized newscast. The regionalized newscast debuted on April 6, 2015; until then there were repeats of \"Noticiero Univision: Edicion Nocturna\" and entertainment programming.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005403", "title": "Thaddeus McCarthy (judge)", "text": "Thaddeus McCarthy (judge)\n\nSir Thaddeus Pearcey McCarthy (24 August 1907 – 11 April 2001) was a New Zealand jurist.\n\nMcCarthy was educated at St Bede's College, Christchurch, and then studied law at Victoria University College, New Zealand and graduated in 1928. He was admitted as a solicitor only in 1929, completed an LLM degree (in 1930), and in 1931 was admitted as a barrister. He practised at the Wellington bar for 26 years until his appointment to the bench. McCarthy was in active service overseas during the Second World War. He prosecuted Walter James Bolton, who was executed in 1957, the last person executed in New Zealand.\n\nMcCarthy was appointed to the Supreme Court bench in 1957, and from 1958 onwards he served periodically as a temporary judge of the Court of Appeal of New Zealand. Sir Thaddeus was President of the Court of Appeal from 1973 to 1976, and was the presiding member of an unprecedented seven Royal Commissions. He was also a Commissioner of Security Appeals.\n\nMcCarthy had a reputation as a \"plain English\" judge with an outstanding ability to make complex matters understandable. He was appointed a Knight Bachelor in the 1964 New Year Honours, and a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1974 Queen's Birthday Honours. He was appointed a Member of the Order of New Zealand, New Zealand's highest civilian honour, on 6 February 1994.\n"}
{"id": "2005410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005410", "title": "School District 43 Coquitlam", "text": "School District 43 Coquitlam\n\nSchool District No. 43 (Coquitlam) or SD43 is one of the sixty school districts in British Columbia. The district is the third largest in British Columbia with 45 elementary schools, 14 middle schools, and 11 secondary schools. School District No. 43 (Coquitlam) serves the Tri-Cities, including the cities of Coquitlam, Port Coquitlam, Port Moody, and the villages of Anmore and Belcarra. The school district covers an area of 120 square kilometres and serves a total combined population of 210,390 residents. It has over 4,000 full-time and part-time employees. The school district has one of the highest graduation rates in the province, with 91.9% of students graduating in the 2013/14 school year.\n\nAs of January 2016, the current superintendent of SD43 is Patricia Gartland. The five municipalities served by SD43 are represented by elected trustees that serve on the Board of Education. There are currently 9 elected trustees in SD43. The chair of the board is Kerri Palmer Isaak, and the vice-chair is Michael Thomas.\n\n\nThe first French Immersion program in SD43 was implemented in 1968 at Alderson Elementary. In 1978, the district implemented a late French Immersion program. Currently there are 5,900 students enrolled in the program. This comprises 10.3% of the total district student population. \n\nSD43 offers online, Learning Centre, and FastTrack courses to eligible British Columbia students through Coquitlam Open Learning (COL). Learning Centre courses are online or paper-based and allow the student to drop in at the Coquitlam Learning Opportunity Centre (CLOC), while FastTrack courses have some regularly schedule classes, with the rest of the course instruction occurring online.\n\nCOL also operates Inquiry Hub Secondary School, which is an alternate secondary school focused on a flexible and inquiry-based education. Students learn through online study, group project work, personal inquiry time, and seminars. It opened September 2012 at the former site of Millside Elementary. The school meets Ministry of Education requirements while still allowing students to meet learning outcomes with a more flexible approach. Most recently, the school received the 2014-15 Ken Spencer Award for Innovation in Teaching and Learning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005419", "title": "Washington's Headquarters State Historic Site", "text": "Washington's Headquarters State Historic Site\n\nWashington's Headquarters State Historic Site, also called Hasbrouck House, is located in Newburgh, New York overlooking the Hudson River. George Washington lived there while he was in command of the Continental Army during the final year of the American Revolutionary War; it had the longest tenure as his headquarters of any place he had used.\n\nIn 1961 the house was designated a state historic site. It is also the oldest house in the city of Newburgh, and the first property acquired and preserved by any U.S. state for historic reasons.\n\nThe first fieldstone farmhouse on the site may have been built in 1725 by Burger Mynderse. The property was sold to Elsie Hasbrouck, and she in turn gave it to her son, Jonathan, who married Catherine (Tryntje) Dubois and they built the existing structure on the original foundation, if any, in 1750. The house was surrounded by a large stock farm. The home underwent two significant enlargements before it was completed in 1770. The home has an original \"Dutch Jambless\" fireplace. A temporary kitchen was built by the Continental Army upon their arrival in 1782. Other changes were made inside the house including the addition of an \"English\" style fireplace in General Washington's bedroom. Existing buildings such as stables and barns were also enlarged and improved on the site. Most Army buildings were removed by the Quartermaster-General's Office at the end of the war, with the exception of a \"House in the garden\", which was given to Mrs. Hasbrouck. It no longer exists.\n\nIn 1850, it was acquired by the State of New York and became the first publicly operated historic site in the country. Today, it is a museum furnished to recreate its condition during the Revolutionary War. It covers an area of about seven acres (2.8 ha), with three buildings: Hasbrouck House, a museum (built in 1910), a monument named the \"\"Tower of Victory\"\", which was completed in 1890 after four years of construction in order to commemorate the centennial of Washington's stay, and a maintenance shed/garage built in the Colonial Revival style in 1942.\n\nAlso on the property is the grave of Uzal Knapp, one of the longest-lived veterans of the Continental Army. For many years it was believed that he had served as one of Washington's personal guards, but more recently historians have come to doubt this.\n\nThere is a statue entitled \"The Minuteman\", by Henry Hudson Kitson, that was erected on the grounds on November 11, 1924.\n\nThe site was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1961.\nHasbrouck House served as Washington's headquarters during the Revolutionary War from April 1782 until August 1783. It was chosen for its comparatively safe location north of the strategically important West Point.\n\nWashington established his headquarters here on Sunday, March 31, 1782.\n\nThe 7,000 troops of the Continental Army were encamped near what is today known as Vails Gate, a few miles to the southwest.\n\nIn the headquarters at Hasbrouck House, Washington rejected the Newburgh letter, a suggestion to institute an American monarchy, and defused the Newburgh conspiracy and threat of a mutiny among his officers over pay and pensions.\n\nOn August 7, 1782, while the Continental troops were encamped around the vicinity of the House, Washington issued his first proclamation, a general order which established a Badge of Military Merit, to enlisted men and non-commissioned officers for long and faithful service and for acts of heroism, which was the forerunner of the Purple Heart. His headquarters was the first place the badge of merit was awarded to American troops.\n\nWashington left the Newburgh headquarters on the morning of August 31 and moved the army to Verplanck's point where they arrived that evening.\n\nOn April 19, 1783, after returning to Newburgh, Washington issued an order for the \"cessation of hostilities\", and gave his Proclamation of Peace, which formally ended the fighting of the Revolutionary War.\n\nOn July 4, 1850 Major General Winfield Scott raised a flag at the opening ceremony and dedication for Washington's headquarters.\nThe U.S. Post Office issued a commemorative stamp featuring an accurate depiction of Washington's Headquarters at Hasbrouck House, overlooking the Hudson River, at Newburgh, New York, on April 19, 1933, the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of peace, issued by Washington in his headquarters, which officially ended the Revolutionary War in 1783.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005421", "title": "List of school districts in British Columbia", "text": "List of school districts in British Columbia\n\nThis is a list of school districts in British Columbia. British Columbia in Canada is divided into 60 school districts which administer publicly funded education until the end of grade 12 in local areas or, in the case of francophone education, across the province.\n\nMany school districts were in existence prior to British Columbia joining Canada in 1871. Some districts were just single schools or even one teacher. Traditionally school districts in British Columbia were either municipal, which were named after the municipality such as Vancouver or Victoria, or rural and given a regional name. Many districts' names are a legacy of this pattern. In 1946, the Ministry of Education rearranged the province's 650 school districts into 79, giving each a number and a name. The school districts were numbered geographically started in the southeast corner and proceeding in a counter-clockwise pattern. This has been disrupted by successive changes to districts. The most recent changes occurred in April 1996 with the restructuring and reduction in the number of school districts from 79 to 57.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005423", "title": "Rob Pinkston", "text": "Rob Pinkston\n\nWilliam Robert \"Rob\" Pinkston IV (born January 30, 1988) is an American actor who appeared during the fourth season of MTV's hidden camera practical joke television series, \"Punk'd\". He also played \"Coconut Head\" on Nickelodeon's \"Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide\". He attended William S. Hart High School, in Santa Clarita, California, a city located north of Los Angeles. He was in \"Extreme Movie\" with Ryan Pinkston (no relation) and Frankie Muniz.\n\nRob currently serves as a StarPower Ambassador for the Starlight Children's Foundation, encouraging other young people to commit their time, energy and resources to help other individuals and working with Starlight to brighten the lives of seriously ill people.\n\nHe appeared on \"Punk'd\" for the first time when he played a troubled youth in whose apparent fight with his aunt in a parking lot tennis player Serena Williams became involved. After Pinkston stole his aunt's car, Williams helped her pursue Rob until Ashton Kutcher revealed himself, and the situation, as a practical joke.\n\nOn MTV's \"Punk'd\" for season 4 episode 3, (Faison helped A] he cried in Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide, Kutcher set up a prank on Braff). It all started when Faison went up to Kutcher and said \"Listen, we got to get Zach Braff.\" He later successfully tricked Braff with the help of Rob Pinkston. Pinkston acted like a juvenile delinquent. He asked \"Scrubs\"' stars Donald Faison and Zach Braff to buy beer. When both Braff and Faison refuse, Pinkston and his friends spray-painted on Braff's brand new $100,000 Porsche until Braff and Faison caught them red handed. Braff was enraged against Pinkston, until Kutcher with two of the kids, revealed himself to Braff, saying, \"I saw the whole thing goes down, and I got these two!\"\n\nPinkston played a fan of Dallas Mavericks' Dirk Nowitzki, who asked him to sign an authentic Jersey from Reebok, and then a number of other memorabilia. When he asked Nowitzki to sign Cleveland Cavaliers' LeBron James' Jersey and two Lakers' hats. Nowitzki signed some of the memorabilia until Michael Finley (Dirk's teammate, who is now retired) and his trainer Al told him to say no. When Nowitzki refused to sign more non-Dallas Mavericks goods, Pinkston insulted Nowitzki and his teammates. After Pinkston asked Nowitzki to sign the menu, Nowitzki was shocked that the menu says: \"Hey Dirk! You've been Punk'd!\" Dirk laughed off the joke.\n\nOn another episode, Pinkston walked into a clothing store, and met musician Joss Stone, nervous because he can't find his mom. Pinkston fled the store after destroying an expensive statue, after which a nervous Stone told one of the store's employees (also a prankster) that she would pay for the statue. Pinkston then returned with the production's cameras and revealed the joke to Stone.\n\nIn 2004, Pinkston played \"Coconut Head\" on Nickelodeon's \"Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide\". He got the role in January 2004 on his 16th birthday. Rob appeared as Coconut Head in almost every episode, the only recurring actor to do so. Also in 2005, Rob had a starring role in the feature film, \"The Derby Stallion\" along with a young Zac Efron. Rob also has a starring role in \"The Sasquatch Gang\", a feature film produced by Jeremy Coon and written/directed by \"Napoleon Dynamite\"s Tim Skousen, which was set to be released in 2006, but hasn't been released because the studio that bought the movie, was bought by another company. The movie was released in the fall of 2007.\n\nPinkston also appeared in the third season \"Ben 10\" episode, \"Under Wraps\", as Todd, the farm boy.\n\nRob was the voice-over for the CBS reality show \"Kid Nation\".\n\n\n\n\nSay Anything feat. Haley Williams (2008) (Church Channel) as Main Character\n\n"}
{"id": "2005440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005440", "title": "Octopamine", "text": "Octopamine\n\nOctopamine (molecular formula CHNO; also known as \"para\"-octopamines and others) is an organic chemical closely related to norepinephrine, and synthesized biologically by a homologous pathway. Its name derives from the fact that it was first identified in the salivary glands of the octopus.\n\nIn many types of invertebrates octopamine is an important neurotransmitter and hormone. In protostomes — arthropods, molluscs, and several types of worms — it substitutes for norephinephrine and performs functions apparently similar to those of norepinephrine in mammals, functions that have been described as mobilizing the body and nervous system for action. In mammals octopamine is found only in trace amounts, and no biological function has been solidly established for it. It is also found naturally in numerous plants, including bitter orange. Octopamine has been sold under trade names such as Epirenor, Norden, and Norfen for use as a sympathomimetic drug, available by prescription.\n\nOctopamine exerts its effects by binding to and activating receptors located on the surface of cells. These receptors have mainly been studied in insects, where they can be divided into three types: alpha-adrenergic-like (OctαR), which are structurally and functionally similar to noradrenergic alpha-1 receptors in mammals; beta-adrenergic-like (OctβR), which are structurally and functionally similar to noradrenergic beta receptors in mammals; and mixed octopamine/tyramine receptors (TyrR), which are structurally and functionally similar to noradrenergic alpha-2 receptors in mammals. Receptors in the TyrR class, however, are generally more strongly activated by tyramine than by octopamine.\n\nIn vertebrates no octopamine-specific receptors have been identified. Octopamine binds weakly to receptors for norepinephrine and epinephrine, but it is not clear whether this has any functional significance. It binds more strongly to trace amine-associated receptors (TAARs), especially TAAR1.\n\nOctopamine was first discovered by Italian scientist Vittorio Erspamer in 1948 in the salivary glands of the octopus and has since been found to act as a neurotransmitter, neurohormone and neuromodulator in invertebrates. Although Erspamer discovered its natural occurrence and named it, octopamine had actually existed for many years as a pharmaceutical product. It is widely used in energy-demanding behaviors by all insects, crustaceans (crabs, lobsters, crayfish), and spiders. Such behaviors include flying, egg-laying, and jumping.\n\nOctopamine acts as the insect equivalent of norepinephrine and has been implicated in regulating aggression in invertebrates, with different effects on different species. Studies have shown that reducing the neurotransmitter octopamine and preventing coding of tyramine beta hydroxylase (an enzyme that converts tyramine to octopamine) decreases aggression in Drosophila without influencing other behaviors.\n\nThe best-understood role for octopamine is in the locust jump. Here it modulates muscle activity, making the leg muscles contract more effectively. This is at least in part due to an increase in the rate of contraction and of relaxation. Octopamine, also has a role in locust flight. A study done in 2014 showed that when a locust was injected with octopamine the acoustic startle response of a locust during flight was changed, and the flight path of the locust was erratic.\n\nIn the honey bee and fruit fly, octopamine has a major role in learning and memory. In the firefly, octopamine release leads to light production in the lantern.\n\nOctopamine also plays a role in mollusks, though the role of octopamine has been examined only in the central nervous system of the model organism, the pond snail.\n\nIn lobsters, octopamine seems to direct and coordinate neurohormones to some extent in the central nervous system, and it was observed that injecting octopamine into a lobster and crayfish resulted in limb and abdomen extension.\n\nHeberlein et al. have conducted studies of alcohol tolerance in fruit flies; they found that a mutation that caused octopamine deficiency also caused lower alcohol tolerance.\n\nThe emerald cockroach wasp stings the host for its larvae (a cockroach) in the head ganglion (brain). The venom blocks octopamine receptors and the cockroach fails to show normal escape responses, grooming itself excessively. It becomes docile and the wasp leads it to the wasp's den by pulling its antenna like a leash.\n\nIn vertebrates, octopamine replaces norepinephrine in sympathetic neurons with chronic use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors. It may be responsible for the common side effect of orthostatic hypotension with these agents, though there is also evidence that it is actually mediated by increased levels of \"N\"-acetylserotonin.\n\nOne study noted that octopamine might be an important amine that influences the therapeutic effects of inhibitors such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors, especially because a large increase in octopamine levels was observed when animals were treated with this inhibitor. Octopamine was positively identified in the urine samples of mammals such as humans, rats, and rabbits treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors. Very small amounts of octopamine were also found in certain animal tissues. It was observed that within a rabbit's body, the heart and kidney held the highest concentrations of octopamine. Octopamine was found to be 93% eluted by urine within 24 hours of being produced in the body as a byproduct of Iproniazid in rabbits.\n\nOctopamine has been sold under trade names such as Epirenor, Norden, and Norfen for use in medicine as a sympathomimetic drug, available by prescription. Very little information exists concerning its clinical usefulness or safety, though.\n\nIn mammals, octopamine may mobilize the release of fat from adipocytes (fat cells), which has led to its promotion on the internet as a slimming aid. However, the released fat is likely to be promptly taken up into other cells, and there is no evidence that octopamine facilitates weight loss. Octopamine may also increase blood pressure significantly when combined with other stimulants, as in some weight loss supplements.\n\nThe World Anti-Doping Agency lists octopamine as a banned substance for in competition use, as a \"specified stimulant\" on the 2019 Prohibited List.\n\nOctopamine is one of four primary endogenous agonists of human trace amine-associated receptor 1.\n\nOctopamine binds to its respective G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) to initiate a cell signal transduction pathway. At least three groups of octopamine GPCR have been defined. OctαR (OCTOPAMINE1 receptors) are more closely related to α-adrenergic receptors, while OctβR (OCTOPAMINE2 receptors) are more closely related to β-adrenergic receptors. The Octopamine/Tyramine receptors (including Oct-TyrR) can bind both ligands, and display agonist-specific coupling. Oct-TyrR is listed in both OCTOPAMINE and TYRAMINE RECEPTORS gene groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005443", "title": "Kazumasa Oda", "text": "Kazumasa Oda\n\nAs the vocalist of Off Course, Oda wrote many Japanese standard numbers in the 70s and 80s. The group's most successful singles—\"Sayonara\" (1979), \"Yes-No\" (1980), and \"Kimi ga Uso o Tsuita\" (1984)—were written by Oda.\n\nIn 1985 he began work as a solo musician. He produced many hit singles as singer-songwriter, such as \"Little Tokyo\" (1989), \"Itsuka Dokokade\" (1992), \"Tsutaetai Koto ga Arunda\" (1997) and \"Kirakira\" (2002). His most successful single was \"Love Story wa Totsuzen ni\" (1991), the theme song of a Japanese TV drama called \"Tokyo Love Story\". It sold over 2,580,000 copies and became the ninth best-selling single in Japan.\n\nKazumasa Oda and Yasuhiro Suzuki began performing together in 1964 while the two were in junior high school. In 1969, they formed the band The Off Course, which they later renamed to Off Course. The pair worked as a duo for their first six albums. Oda primarily played keyboards and Suzuki played guitars, with the two sharing songwriting and vocals.\n\nFor their seventh album, in 1979, Off Course added three new permanent members and moved to more of a pop/rock sound. Oda and Suzuki continued to provide the vast majority of the songwriting and lead vocals. After five albums as a five-man band, Suzuki left the group in 1982 to pursue a solo career. The remaining members continued on for four more albums. Off Course officially came to an end after their final concert on February 26, 1989.\n\nIn 1985, Oda collaborated with Yumi Matsutoya and Kazuo Zaitsu and released the No. 1 hit single \"Imadakara\". It was mostly written by Matsutoya and Oda, and played by the former Sadistic Mika Band members. In the same year, Oda began his own solo career. His first solo album \"K.Oda\" (1986) was produced by Oda and Grammy Award-winning recording engineer Bill Schnee, who was known for his work with Steely Dan, Olivia Newton-John, Boz Scaggs, Pablo Cruise, and Huey Lewis and the News. Schnee was one of Oda's friends, and had also worked on the Off Course albums. Oda's solo debut album was recorded by many influential musicians; Jeff Porcaro on drums, David Hungate on bass, Dann Huff on guitar and others.\n\nThree years later from release of \"K.Oda\", he released self-produced studio album \"Between the Word and Heart\". Around that year, the work as Off Course was getting destroyed. He released third studio album \"Far East Cafe\" in 1989. In this album, Nathan East performed bass guitar, but other instruments and chorus were mainly recorded by several Japanese musicians. The title of the album was also his management office name. In later year, he has run same-titled café.\n\nIn 1991, he wrote the theme song for \"Tokyo Love Story\", the drama series which was broadcast by Fuji Television. At first, he wrote the song called \"Far East Club Band Song\", but the producer Akira Ota refused that song and ordered Oda to write another song. Eventually, \"Far East Club Band Song\" was featured as theme song on another program, and instead of \"Far East\", he wrote \"Love Story wa Totsuzen ni\". On February 6 of same year, it was released as the double A-side single with \"Oh! Yeah!\" (It was used as the background music on TV advertisement of The Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Company.) The single sold nearly 2,600,000 copies and became best-selling compact disc in Japan at that time. At the stage now, it is ninth best-selling singles in Japan. Because of these succeeded tie-up, a lot of his songs were used as theme songs for advertisements, movies, and TV dramas in later years. After the hit of \"Oh! Yeah!\", Oda released same-titled first compilation album. Following the success of the single, this album sold over 1.5 million copies.\n\nIn the 21st century, he released three albums and all of them reached number one on the official Japanese music chart, Oricon. Above all, compilation album \"Jiko Best\" (2002) sold over 2,200,000 copies. With the release of his album \"Soukana\" in 2005, he became the oldest solo music artist to reach number one on Oricon's album chart. His 2007 single \"Kokoro\" also made him the oldest solo music artist to reach number one on Oricon's single's chart. (This record has since been surpassed by Junko Akimoto, in 2009).\n\n\n\nThe Japan Record Awards is a major music awards show held annually in Japan by the Japan Composer's Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005447", "title": "Jackie Vernon (comedian)", "text": "Jackie Vernon (comedian)\n\nJackie Vernon (born Ralph Verrone; March 29, 1924 – November 10, 1987) was an American stand-up comedian, actor and voice actor, who is best known for his role as the voice of Frosty the Snowman in the Rankin/Bass Productions Christmas special \"Frosty the Snowman\" and its sequel \"Frosty's Winter Wonderland\".\n\nVernon was known for his gentle, low-key delivery and self-deprecating humor. He has been hailed as \"The King of Deadpan.\" His signature opening line was, \"To look at me now, it's hard to believe I was once considered a dull guy.\"\n\nEarly on in the 1950s, according to Dick Brooks, Vernon bounced around the country working whatever jobs he could find, mostly in strip joints. Even then he had a unique style, often cracking up members of the band with his inside humor. He decided to give New York a try, and hung around Hanson's Drug Store, a place where small-time comedians and acts in the theater section of New York would meet after making the rounds of agents who had their offices in the area. He was picked up by manager of comedian Willie Weber. In 1963, Steve Allen invited Jackie to appear on his late-night television show, \"Celebrity Talent Scouts\", and his career went into overdrive.\n\nIn the 1960s, Jackie occasionally worked as the opening act for both Dean Martin and Judy Garland and was a regular fixture on \"The Merv Griffin Show\", where he informed the host that his original stage name had been \"Nosmo King,\" which he had seen on a sign (i.e. \"no smoking\"). He would take up a topic like prisons in a monologue and begin with, \"Hello, prison fans.\" \n\nVernon was also known to perform unique and darker sketches, such as his ultimately tragic attempt to turn a watermelon into a housepet. Plagued by strange occurrences and misfortune, Jackie would tell of traveling all the way to see the Grand Canyon, only to find it was closed. Then there was the time he went to see a fistfight, and it broke out into a hockey game. \n\nOne of his early bits was the \"Vacation Slide Show.\" There were no slides visible; they were presumably offscreen as he described them, using a hand-clicker to advance to each \"slide\":\n\nA typical joke of Vernon's: \"We lived in a small town built on a one-way street. If you miss it you have to drive all the way around the world to get back\"\n\nVernon was once a trumpet player and often carried a cornet with him as a prop during his stand-up routines. As with Henny Youngman and his violin, it was seldom actually played. When he guested on a summer variety program hosted by Al Hirt in 1965, he came on with his cornet and said, \"I play like I'm Hirt.\" He was a popular figure on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" and other variety shows, where he often ended his act by blowing a cornet and saying, \"I think I hurt myself!\" \n\nHe often appeared on the \"Celebrity Roasts\" that were a staple of 1970s television, as well as being a fixture on the dais at the original live Friars Club Roasts before and after the televised versions. Vernon's signature \"deadpan\" expression and delivery often had the roast audiences laughing hysterically, long before the punch line of the jokes. Vernon's X-rated story-style jokes about people engaging in extreme sexual depravity became legend, often with the added tag line, \"and I thought to myself... what a neat guy!\" \n\nVernon also memorably starred in Wayne Berwick's 1983 cult film \"Microwave Massacre\", in which he plays a lascivious builder who kills his wife for bossing him around and making him too many microwaved \"gourmet\" meals.\n\nVernon said that for the first few years after starting standup, he would write letters to his hero Charlie Chaplin, although he never got a reply or any acknowledgement of his letter-writing. After Vernon became famous and was making TV appearances, he eventually stopped writing to Chaplin. During an appearance in Las Vegas, management told him that Charlie Chaplin would be in the audience that night; Jackie asked if he could meet Chaplin. He was told that Chaplin was eating dinner right then in the restaurant. Vernon walked up to Chaplin's table, and as he started to introduce himself, Chaplin interrupted him, saying, \"Of course, Jackie Vernon. Tell me: why did you stop writing?\"\n\nDespite his reputation as a raunchy comedian, Vernon also supplied the voice of the title character of the popular Rankin-Bass television special \"Frosty the Snowman\" (1969), which has been broadcast annually on CBS since its debut. He later voiced Frosty in two more Rankin-Bass specials; \"Frosty's Winter Wonderland\" (1976) and \"Rudolph and Frosty's Christmas in July\" (1979).\n\nVernon was married to Hazel Sawyer, together they have three children; David, Lisa, and Tracey.\n\nVernon died at home in Hollywood, California, on November 10, 1987, from a heart attack at age 63. Vernon's wife, Hazel, died 19 years later on April 13, 2006, at the age of 77.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005448", "title": "Prison Break", "text": "Prison Break\n\nPrison Break is an American television serial drama created by Paul Scheuring for Fox. The series revolves around two brothers, Lincoln Burrows (Dominic Purcell) and Michael Scofield (Wentworth Miller); Burrows has been sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit, and Scofield devises an elaborate plan to help his brother escape prison and clear his name. The series was produced by Adelstein-Parouse Productions, in association with Original Television and 20th Century Fox Television. Along with creator Paul Scheuring, the series is executive produced by Matt Olmstead, Kevin Hooks, Marty Adelstein, Dawn Parouse, Neal H. Moritz, and Brett Ratner who directed the pilot episode. The series' theme music, composed by Ramin Djawadi, was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award in 2006. \"Prison Break\" is a joint production between Original Film, Adelstein/Parouse Productions, and 20th Century Fox Television and syndicated by 20th Television.\n\nThe series was originally turned down by Fox in 2003, which was concerned about the long-term prospects of such a series. Following the popularity of serialized prime time television series \"Lost\" and \"24\", Fox decided to back production in 2004. The first season received mostly positive reviews from critics with universal acclaim from audiences. The season performed exceptionally in the ratings. The first season was originally planned for a 13-episode run, but was extended to include an extra nine episodes due to its popularity. The following seasons, however, received generally positive-to-mixed reviews, with some critics claiming the show had overstayed its welcome. \"Prison Break\" was nominated for several industry awards, including the 2005 Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series Drama and the 2006 People's Choice Award for Favorite New TV Drama, which it won. In the United States, all five seasons have been released on DVD and released on Blu-ray internationally.\n\nThe success of the series has inspired short videos for mobile phones, several official tie-ins in print and on the Internet, as well as a video game. A spin-off series, \"\", was produced exclusively for mobile phones. The series has spawned an official magazine and a tie-in novel. The fourth season of \"Prison Break\" returned from its mid-season break in a new timeslot on April 17, 2009, for the series' last six episodes. Two additional episodes, titled \"The Old Ball and Chain\" and \"Free\" were produced, and were later transformed into a standalone feature, titled \"\". The events of this feature take place before the last scene of the series finale, and are intended to conclude unfinished plotlines. The feature was released on DVD and Blu-ray July 21, 2009.\n\nA nine-episode fifth season was announced by Fox in January 2016. The revival series premiered on April 4, 2017, and concluded on May 30. In January 2018, Fox confirmed that season 6 was in early development; however, in August 2019, Fox announced that they have no current plans to revive \"Prison Break\".\n\nThe first season follows the rescue of Lincoln Burrows, who is accused of murdering Terrence Steadman, the brother of Vice President of the United States, Caroline Reynolds. Lincoln is sentenced to death and is incarcerated in Fox River State Penitentiary where he awaits his execution. Lincoln's brother, brilliant structural engineer Michael Scofield, is convinced of Lincoln's innocence and formulates an escape plan. In order to gain access to Fox River, Michael commits an armed robbery which results in him being sentenced to Fox River. In prison, Michael befriends the prison doctor Sara Tancredi when he pretends to suffer from Type 1 diabetes, in order to gain daily access to the prison's infirmary, where he receives his daily insulin shots. The brothers' fight to ward off the execution is aided by their lifelong friend Veronica Donovan, who begins to investigate the conspiracy that put Lincoln in jail. However, they are hindered by covert agents, members of an organization known as The Company. The Company was responsible for framing Lincoln, and they did so because of Lincoln's father Aldo Burrows, and his former connections with The Company. The brothers, along with six other inmates, Fernando Sucre, Theodore \"T-Bag\" Bagwell, Benjamin Miles \"C-Note\" Franklin, David \"Tweener\" Apolskis, John Abruzzi, and Charles \"Haywire\" Patoshik, who come to be known as the Fox River Eight, escape in the episode immediately prior to the season finale, after using their prison industry privileges to dig an escape tunnel underneath the prison.\n\nThe second season begins eight hours after the escape, focusing mainly on the eight escapees. Series creator Paul Scheuring describes the second season as \"\"The Fugitive\" times eight\" and likens it to the \"second half of \"The Great Escape\".\" The fugitives split up and journey to locations across the country with the authorities close behind them as they each pursue their individual goals. Brad Bellick gets fired from the prison where he worked as the main guard and chases after the inmates himself for the reward money. Several of the escapees reunite in search of a large cache of money buried long ago by another Fox River inmate, Charles Westmoreland. Federal agent Alexander Mahone is assigned to track down and capture the eight fugitives, but is revealed to be working for The Company, which wants all eight men dead. When Sara discovers her father, Governor Frank Tancredi, has been killed, she meets with Michael, remaining with him as the brothers try to bring down now-President Reynolds, a Company member. To ensure the brothers' safety, Sara allows herself to be arrested and faces trial. During the trial, the testimony of former Secret Service agent Paul Kellerman, who used to work for The Company-controlled President, exonerates Lincoln and Sara. Half of the escapees are killed or recaptured, but the brothers make it to Panama. Michael, T-Bag, Mahone, and Bellick are arrested by the Panamanian authorities and imprisoned at the Penitenciaría Federal de Sona.\n\nThe third season follows Michael inside Sona and Lincoln on the outside in Panama. Sona is a prison that has been run by the inmates and guarded only from the outside due to a riot the year before. Inmates are only supplied with food and water and are expected to distribute and serve fellow inmates independently. The surrounding landscape is monitored by armed guards who shoot at sighting of inmates escaping. Burrows is quickly contacted by Gretchen Morgan (a Company operative who was in charge of operations in Panama) who kidnapped his son LJ and Sara, the woman Michael loves. He is told that The Company wants Scofield to break James Whistler out of Sona. The season follows Michael and Whistler's trials in formulating an escape plan, as Michael has to deal with extreme tension and as Lincoln deals with The Company's operative Gretchen Morgan. Sucre gets a job at the prison to aid Michael in his escape plan. When Lincoln attempts to rescue Sara and LJ following a clue provided by Sara, Gretchen claims to have beheaded Sara and sends Lincoln a head in a box as a warning. As the season ends, the pair manage to escape along with Mahone, and another inmate, Luis, leaving behind several accomplices including T-Bag and Bellick. Sucre's identity is discovered by a prison guard and he is thrown into Sona just after the escape. LJ and Sofia (who was captured for a guarantee that Whistler would go with her) are traded for Whistler, and Michael seeks revenge against Gretchen for Sara's death.\n\nThe major storyline for the fourth season is about a team recruited by Homeland Security agent Don Self to obtain Scylla. Although the team initially believes it to be The Company's \"black book,\" it is later revealed to contain information on an advanced renewable power cell. Over the course of the first half of the season, the team obtains cards to access Scylla and breaks into Company headquarters to steal it, Sara is discovered to be alive, Bellick dies when he sacrifices himself, and Self is revealed to be a double agent intent on selling Scylla to the highest bidder. Reluctantly, Lincoln decides to join The Company to get it back, while Michael suffers from a hypothalamic hamartoma. He is treated and operated on by The Company. Michael later learns that his mother, Christina is still alive and was an agent of The Company, who is revealed to acquire Scylla to sell to the highest bidder. Eventually, the series' main storyline of the past 4 seasons ends in Miami, where Scylla is recovered by Michael and the team, the General and The Company are taken down, and Sara kills Christina.\n\nThe last two episodes of the season represent the series finale. In the penultimate episode, Sara is seen buying flowers in Panama with her toddler son, Michael, before visiting Michael's grave with Lincoln, Sucre and Mahone. The final episode and television movie \"\" shows what happened between the take down of The Company and Michael's death. This story involves the incarceration of Sara in Miami-Dade county penitentiary for Christina's murder. The General and T-Bag are in the adjacent men's facility. The General wants Sara dead and has put a $100,000 bounty on her. Michael hears of the bounty and devises a plan to break Sara out. In the end, knowing that he is dying from a brain tumor, Michael sacrifices himself for Sara to escape.\n\nIn June 2015, it was reported that a revival was in development at Fox. The limited series is a sequel to the original series, taking place several years later and features Wentworth Miller and Dominic Purcell reprising their roles as well as the return of series creator Paul Scheuring. Despite Michael being killed in the , Fox CEO Dana Walden said that the series will provide \"a logical and believable explanation to why the characters are alive and still moving around the world\". In January 2016, Fox officially ordered the revival to series, with the episode order revised to nine episodes. In March 2016, it was confirmed that Sarah Wayne Callies, Amaury Nolasco, Robert Knepper, Rockmond Dunbar and Paul Adelstein would reprise their roles. Filming began in April 2016 in Vancouver, and several Moroccan cities including Rabat, Casablanca, and Ouarzazate. It debuted on April 4, 2017, and aired on Tuesdays at 9:00 pm.\n\n\"Prison Break\" maintains an ensemble cast for each season along with many recurring guest stars. The first season features a cast of ten actors who receive star billing, who were based in Chicago or at Fox River State Penitentiary. The second season features a cast of nine actors who receive billing; three characters are downgraded from series regular to recurring status, another is upgraded, and a new character is introduced. The third season introduces four new characters; two of whom are prisoners at Penitenciaría Federal de Sona.\n\nMost of the changes in the cast have been due to character deaths. Series creator, Paul Scheuring, explains that killing off major characters \"makes the audience that much more fearful for our protagonists\" and that \"it actually does help us in terms of reducing story lines\". The two protagonists of the series, Michael Scofield and Lincoln Burrows, are the only characters to have appeared in every episode of the series.\n\nThe original concept of \"Prison Break\"—a man deliberately getting himself sent to prison in order to help someone escape—was suggested to Paul Scheuring by producer Dawn Parouse, who wanted to produce an action-oriented series. Although Scheuring thought it was a good idea, he was initially stumped as to why someone would embark on such a mission or how he could develop it into a viable television show. He came up with the story of the wrongfully accused brother, and began working on the plot outline and devising the characters. In 2003, he pitched the idea to the Fox Broadcasting Company but was turned down as Fox felt nervous about the long-term possibilities of such a series. He subsequently showed the concept to other channels but was also turned down as it was thought to be more suited for a film project than a television series. \"Prison Break\" was later considered as a possible 14-part miniseries, which drew the interest of Steven Spielberg before his departure due to his involvement with \"War of the Worlds\". Thus, the miniseries never materialized. Following the huge popularity of serialized prime time television series such as \"Lost\" and \"24\", Fox decided to back the production in 2004. The pilot episode was filmed a year after Scheuring wrote the script.\n\nThe first three seasons of \"Prison Break\" were primarily filmed outside of Hollywood. The majority of the first season of the series was filmed on location in and around Chicago. After it was closed down in 2002, Joliet Prison became the set of \"Prison Break\" in 2005, standing in as Fox River State Penitentiary on screen. Scenes set in Lincoln's cell, the infirmary, and the prison yard were all shot on location at the prison. Lincoln's cell was alleged to be the same one in which serial killer John Wayne Gacy was incarcerated, which at least one member of the production crew refused to enter, because it was alleged to be haunted. Other sets were built at the prison, including the cell blocks that housed the general prison population; these blocks had three tiers of cells (as opposed to the real cell block's four) and had cells much larger than real cells to allow more space for the actors and cameras. Exterior scenes were filmed in areas around Chicago, Woodstock, and Joliet in Illinois. Other locations included O'Hare International Airport in Chicago and Toronto, Ontario in Canada. \"Prison Break\" spent $2 million per episode in the state of Illinois, which cost them a total of $24 million in 2005.\n\nRenewed for a second season, \"Prison Break\" resumed filming on June 15, 2006, in Dallas, Texas due to the close proximity of rural and urban settings. Locations within a 30-minute radius of Dallas were chosen which included Little Elm, Decatur, Mineral Wells and McKinney. Many of these locations were used to represent various American towns. The show was expected to spend in excess of $50 million in Texas over the course of the second season. For the final three episodes of the second season, filming took place in Pensacola, Florida to represent Panama. Each episode took eight days to film and approximately $1.4 million went to the local economy per episode.\n\nThe third season was shot in Dallas and had a budget of $3 million per episode. Several of the exterior scenes with Lincoln and Gretchen negotiating the escape from the Panama jail were shot in the Casco Viejo quarter of Panama City. The principal photography for the fourth season was relocated to Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe theme music of \"Prison Break\" and the incidental music of each episode was composed by Ramin Djawadi. The score for the first two seasons is featured in the \"Prison Break: Original Television Soundtrack\", which was released on August 28, 2007. Djawadi and Ferry Corsten produced a remix of the theme music titled \"Prison Break Theme (Ferry Corsten Breakout Mix)\" as a single, which was released by Fox Music in 2006. In Europe, rapper Faf Larage's song \"Pas le temps\" is used by television network M6 in France and by RTL-TVI in Belgium to replace the show's original theme music in the title sequence, which generated publicity and helped to localize the show.\n\n\"Prison Break\" features a serialized story structure, similar to that of its first season companion show \"24\". At the 2009 TV Critics Press Tour, Kevin Reilly told reporters that the series would end with the fourth season. Despite decreasing ratings, Reilly attributed the cancellation to creativity: \"The show has just played out. You get to a point creatively where you feel all the stories have been told, and you want to end strong and not gimp out in the end of the season.\" Regarding the finale, Reilly stated, \"They have a really cool ending, actually. I know where they end, and it's a hell of an idea.\"\n\nOn October 24, 2007, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that a spin off was under development, tentatively titled \"Prison Break: Cherry Hill\". The series was to revolve around an upper-middle-class housewife, Molly, and her stint in a women's prison. However, the producers' original idea to introduce Molly in the third season of \"Prison Break\" was later dropped due to the writers' strike. The new series would instead begin under the \"Prison Break\" brand similar to \"\" and \"\".\n\nDesigned by Tom Berg and created by Tinsley Transfers, the tattoo took around five hours to be applied onto Wentworth Miller. In scenes where the actor is wearing a T-shirt and the entire tattoo isn't being shown, only the forearm pieces of the tattoo were applied.\n\nThe following seasonal rankings are based on a weighted average total viewers per episode as recorded by Nielsen Media Research. The recording period begins in late September (the start of the U.S. network television season) and ends in late May.\n\nThe show debuted on August 29, 2005 to an estimated audience of 10.5 million viewers. Fox had not seen such success for summertime Monday numbers since \"Melrose Place\" and \"Ally McBeal\" aired in September 1998. The premiere was ranked first in both the 18–49 and 18–34 demographics. The strong debut performance was also matched by various positive reviews. According to \"The New York Times\", \"Prison Break\" was \"more intriguing than most of the new network series, and it certainly is one of the most original\", complimenting its ability to create a \"suspenseful thriller\" and its \"authentic look\". Gillian Flynn of \"Entertainment Weekly\" dubbed it as one of the best new shows of 2005. On the other hand, \"The Washington Post\" criticized the show for its \"somber pretentiousness\" and \"uniformly overwrought\" performances. Due to its ratings success, Fox decided to extend \"Prison Break\" by an extra nine episodes, making it the first new series in the 2005–2006 television season to receive a full season order of 22 episodes. The series averaged 9.2 million viewers per week in its first season.\n\nThe premiere of the second season of \"Prison Break\" obtained an average of 9.4 million viewers. The decline was steeper among young-adult viewers with a decrease of 20% in the 18–49 demographic compared to its series premiere, but its household rating grew from 3.6% to 3.9% during the last half-hour. Robert Bianco of \"USA Today\" commented on the \"harebrained absurdities that have swamped this show\", and blamed the writers for being \"incredibly lazy\" for the continuous use of the tattoo as an \"all-purpose plot fix\". In contrast, \"Detroit Free Press\" commended the second-season premiere on matching the standard set by the first season, which delivered \"rocking good entertainment\" due to its \"motley crew of cellblock characters\" and the \"taut, ingenious storytelling of series creator Paul T. Scheuring and his staff.\" The second season obtained its largest audience on the original airdate of the episode, \"Chicago\" with an average of 10.1 million viewers. Overall, the second season averaged 9.3 million viewers per week.\n\nThe third and particularly fourth season received progressively more negative reviews, as the show's plot diverged from its origin story of breaking out of prison, and focused more on conventional elements of a government conspiracy drama series.\n\nSeason five received mixed reviews. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the season has an approval rating of 52% based on 21 reviews, with an average score of 6.61/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Prison Break\" recaptures some of its old urgency in its return, but familiar faces and frenetic action aren't enough to make up for a plot that manages to bore while beggaring belief.\" On Metacritic, the season has a score of 48 out of 100, based on 18 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nConcerns were raised by the Parents Television Council in the United States about the time slot in which \"Prison Break\" was broadcast (8:00 pm ET) since the show features some scenes which contain graphic content. In France, the broadcasting watchdog, Conseil Supérieur de l'Audiovisuel (CSA), also complained that the violence in some episodes exceeded the amount allowed for its rating, which is \"not for under 10s\". Under France's regulations, any higher ratings would move the show away from its current primetime timeslot to a later timeslot. However, their decision to change the rating would only affect the first season, which has already been broadcast, and not the second season.\n\nFollowing a successful airing of the series' first thirteen episodes, \"Prison Break\" was nominated for its first award, the 2005 People's Choice Award for Favorite New TV Drama. The series won the award in January 2006, beating other nominees in the same category, \"Commander in Chief\" and \"Criminal Minds\". In January 2006, the show had two nominations at the 63rd Golden Globe Awards, which were Best Drama Television Series and Best Actor in a Drama Television Series for Wentworth Miller's performance. The show's lead actor, Wentworth Miller, received another nomination for his performance in the first season at the 2005 Saturn Awards for Best Actor on Television. Likewise, the series was nominated for 2005 Saturn Award for Best Network Television Series. At the 2006 Television Critics Association Awards, the show was nominated for Best New Drama Series. Nominations for technical awards include the 2006 Eddie Award for Best Edited One-Hour Series for Commercial Television (Mark Helfrich for the pilot episode), and the 2006 Primetime Emmy award for Outstanding Main Title Theme Music (Ramin Djawadi). In December 2006, Robert Knepper was nominated for the 2006 Satellite Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television.\n\nOn October 24, 2006, the Associated Press reported that Donald and Robert Hughes filed a lawsuit against Fox Broadcasting Company and the show's executive producer and creator, Paul Scheuring, for copyright infringement, seeking unspecified damages and other costs. They claimed that in 2001, they had sent Fox their manuscript which was based on their own experiences of a prison break at a juvenile facility. In the 1960s, Donald Hughes planned and successfully executed a prison escape for his brother, Robert Hughes, who was wrongfully incarcerated.\n\nIn Canada, \"Prison Break\" was broadcast on Global one hour before it aired on Fox, except in the Maritimes where it aired two hours before Fox's airing. \"Prison Break\" was the only new television series to be positioned in the top twenty television shows of 2005–2006 in Canada, achieving an average of 876,000 viewers in the key demographic of 18–49 and 1.4 million viewers nationally for its first season. \"Prison Break\" premiered on Australian television network Seven on February 1, 2006, to an average audience of 1.94 million. The first season attracted an overall average of 1.353 million viewers. After decreasing ratings throughout the second season, Seven decided to fast-track the airing of the third-season episodes. The fifth season revival moved to Network Ten and debuted on May 15, 2017.\n\nThe first and second seasons premiered in the UK on Five, with the first season being replayed on UKTV Gold before the second season debuted on Five. Prior to the start of the third season, Sky One acquired the rights to broadcast \"Prison Break\", paying £500,000 per episode. The series premiered in France on August 31, 2006, with an average of 5.5 million viewers. The second season premiered on September 13, 2007, to 5.3 million viewers. The first season's broadcast in Hong Kong on TVB Pearl received the largest audience in the country for a foreign drama. The series premiere obtained an average of 260,000 viewers while the first-season finale obtained an average of 470,000 viewers. The second season's premiere received an average of 270,000 viewers.\n\nThe DVD and Blu-ray Disc sets of each season were released after their television broadcast in various regions. At the 2006 International Consumer Electronics Show, 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment announced that the complete first season of \"Prison Break\" was to be released on Blu-ray in early 2007. The release date was later announced to be November 13, 2007, and \"Prison Break\" became the first television show to be released on Blu-ray Disc by Fox. The Blu-ray box set contains six discs and includes all the DVD box set's special features. A DVD set containing the first three seasons was released on May 19, 2008, in Region 2. The television movie, \"\", was included in the Season 4 set in Regions 2 and 4, but was released separately in Region 1. \"The Final Break\" was later released separately in Regions 2 and 4. In France, Germany and the United Kingdom, a Blu-ray package of all four seasons including \"The Final Break\" has been released. Over a year after its initial release, Season 4 was later re-issued in Region 4 without \"The Final Break\" included.\n\nIn addition to the television broadcast of the show, episodes of \"Prison Break\" have also been released on the Internet. Towards the end of the first season, episodes of \"Prison Break\" were made available for purchase online at the iTunes Store, which began on May 9, 2006. After the premiere of the second season of \"Prison Break\", Fox began allowing online streaming of the current episode for free via more than 50 websites including AOL, Google, and Yahoo!, as well as its own extensive network. However, this was restricted to the United States only. The first three episodes of the second season were broadcast commercial free, available for a week after their television broadcast date. Online streaming of episodes was postponed after the third episode. However, due to the show's three-week broadcast hiatus prompted by Fox's broadcast of the Major League Baseball playoff games in October, a strategy was developed by News Corporation (the parent company of Fox Broadcasting Company and MySpace) in an attempt to maintain their viewers' interest in the show. Starting in October, Fox began to stream past episodes of the second season on the social networking site MySpace and websites of the network's owned and operated stations (the stations are part of the Fox Television Stations Group). Although commercials were aired throughout the broadcast, the episodes were free of charge.\n\nA spin-off series, \"\", was produced exclusively for mobile phones and was broadcast first to Sprint customers in April 2006 on SprintTV's Fox station. The first episode of \"Proof of Innocence\" became available on the Internet for viewing on May 8, 2006. This was an exclusive deal made between Toyota Motor and News Corporation's Fox network, allowing Toyota to sponsor exclusive content of the show and to obtain advertising exclusivity.\n\nDuring the show's third season, a series of six online shorts, collectively known as \"Prison Break: Visitations\", were made exclusively for Fox. They feature the characters Lechero, Sammy, McGrady, T-Bag, and Bellick. They were distributed on the Internet and are available for free from iTunes.\n\nIn printed media, the show's tie-in products include an official magazine and a tie-in novel. The official magazine, published by Titan Publishing, was launched on November 21, 2006. Each issue contains interviews with selected cast and crew members with other feature stories.\n\nThe tie-in novel, \"Prison Break: The Classified FBI Files\" (), contains details of the show's characters pertaining to the second season's storyline. Written by Paul Ruditis, the book is published by Simon & Schuster and was released on May 8, 2007.\n\nIn September 2009, Insight Editions published \"Prison Break: Behind the Scenes\", a companion book featuring production photography, in which writers Christian Trokey and Kalinda Vazquez, as well as Paul Scheuring, Matt Olmstead, and director of photography Fernando Arguelles comment on the show's four-season run.\n\nAn official manga adaptation of the series became available on the online service Piccoma beginning June 23, 2019. Artwork is done by Hikosuke Soyama and the adaptation is under the supervision of Twentieth Century Fox.\n\nThere is also a live feature called \"Prison Break LIVE!\", created by The Sudden Impact! Entertainment Company, which is an interactive experience aimed at bringing to life the atmosphere from the television series. The attraction toured the US, Australia, UK, China, Germany and Mexico from 2006 to 2008.\n\nA video game based on \"Prison Break\" was in development for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 for release in February 2009, but was cancelled when Brash Entertainment shut down.\n\nDevelopment of \"\" restarted when the game's developer, ZootFly, found a new publisher. The video game was released on March 31, 2010. The game's protagonist is Tom Paxton, a Company employee who is sent inside of Fox River to observe and report every move of Michael Scofield. The game features voices from the original cast members with the exception of Sarah Wayne Callies (Dr. Sara Tancredi).\n\nIn April 2010, it was announced that the series would be adapted for Russia. On September 20, 2010, the Russian adaptation premiered on Channel One. This adaptation uses many of the features of the original series, with some scenes and dialogue copied completely, but also introduces new storylines and characters which reflects the Russian reality.\n\nRobert Knepper reprised his role as T-Bag in the 2011 A&E Network television series, \"Breakout Kings\", which was created by \"Prison Break\" writers Matt Olmstead and Nick Santora.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005452", "title": "RC 4000 multiprogramming system", "text": "RC 4000 multiprogramming system\n\nThe RC 4000 Multiprogramming System is a discontinued operating system developed for the RC 4000 minicomputer in 1969.\n\nThe RC 4000 Multiprogramming System is historically notable for being the first attempt to break down an operating system into a group of interacting programs communicating via a message passing kernel. Although RC 4000 itself was not very successful it was nevertheless extremely influential, sparking the microkernel concept that dominated operating system research through the 1970s and 1980s. The system is also known as Monitor and, somewhat confusingly, simply RC 4000 depending on the reference. For clarity, this article will use the term Monitor.\n\nMonitor was created largely by one programmer, Per Brinch Hansen, who worked at Regnecentralen where the RC 4000 was being designed. Leif Svalgaard participated in the implementation and testing of Monitor. Brinch Hansen found that no existing operating system was suited to the new machine, and was tired of having to adapt existing systems. He felt that a better solution was to build an underlying kernel, which he referred to as the \"nucleus\", that could be used to build up an operating system from interacting programs. Unix, for instance, uses small interacting programs for many tasks, transferring data through a system known as \"pipes\". However a large amount of fundamental code is buried in the kernel itself, notably things like file systems and program control. Monitor would remove this code as well, making almost the entire system a set of interacting programs, reducing the kernel (nucleus) to a communications and support system only.\n\nMonitor used a pipe-like system of shared memory as the basis of its inter-process communications. Data to be sent from one process to another was copied into an empty memory buffer, and when the receiving program was ready, back out again. The buffer was then returned to the pool. Programs had a very simple API for passing data, using an asynchronous set of four methods. Client applications send data with codice_1 and could optionally block using codice_2. Servers used a mirroring set of calls, codice_3 and codice_4. Note that messages had an implicit \"return path\" for every message sent, making the semantics more like a remote procedure call than Mach's completely I/O-based system.\n\nMonitor divided the application space in two; \"internal processes\" were the execution of traditional programs, started on request, while \"external processes\" were effectively device drivers. External processes were actually handled outside of user space by the nucleus, although they could be started and stopped just like any other program. Internal processes were started in the context of the \"parent\" that launched them, so each user could effectively build up their own operating system by starting and stopping programs in their own context.\n\nScheduling was left entirely to the programs, if required at all (in the 1960s, multitasking was a debatable feature). One user could start up a session in a pre-emptive multitasking environment, while another might start in a single-user mode to run batch processing at higher speed. Real-time scheduling could be supported by sending messages to a timer process that would only return at the appropriate time.\n\nThese two areas have seen the vast majority of development since Monitor's release, driving newer designs to use hardware to support messaging, and supporting threads within applications to reduce launch times. For instance, Mach required a memory management unit to improve messaging by using the copy-on-write protocol and mapping (instead of copying) data from process to process. Mach also used threading extensively, allowing the external programs, or \"servers\" in more modern terms, to easily start up new handlers for incoming requests. Still, Mach IPC was too slow to make the microkernel approach practically useful. This only changed when Liedtke L4 microkernel demonstrated an order-of-magnitude improvement in IPC overheads.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005454", "title": "Jiutai District", "text": "Jiutai District\n\nJiutai () is one of seven districts of the prefecture-level city of Changchun, the capital of Jilin Province, Northeast China. The district is surrounded by agricultural areas and is located around northeast of downtown Changchun. Coal mining also is present in Jiutai. It borders Dehui to the north, Erdao District to the southwest, Kuancheng District to the west, as well as the prefecture-level city of Jilin to the south and east.\n\nThere are five subdistricts, nine towns, and two ethnic townships.\n\nSubdistricts:\n\nTowns:\n\nTownships:\n"}
{"id": "2005471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005471", "title": "Gripsholm Castle", "text": "Gripsholm Castle\n\nGripsholm Castle () is a castle in Mariefred, Södermanland, Sweden. It is located by lake Mälaren in south central Sweden, in the municipality of Strängnäs, about 60 km west of Stockholm. Since Gustav Vasa, Gripsholm has belonged to the Swedish Royal Family and was used as one of their residences until the 18th century. It is now a museum, but it is still considered to be a palace at the disposal of the King and as such it is part of the Crown palaces in Sweden.\n\nA fortress was built at the location in the 1370s by Bo Jonsson Grip. It was sold to queen Margaret in 1404, and remained the property of the crown until it was acquired by Sten Sture the Elder, the Regent, in 1472 by an exchange of landed properties, whereby it became private, hereditary land of allodial status, to belong to the ownership of Regent Steen's own family. Steen donated the place's use to a convent for males of the order of the Carthusians in 1498, and the Gripsholm estate functioned as a convent for almost thirty years. \nIn 1526, the Carthusian Abbey was dissolved by King Gustav I during the Swedish Reformation, and the estate was returned to its hereditary owner, the heir of the late Sten Sture the Old. It is well-recorded that Gripsholm was a part of the so-called Kungens Arv och Eget in registers of the 1500s and the 1600s.\nThe King tore the convent building and the old castle down, and built a fortified castle with circular corner towers and a wall, for defensive purposes. Of the original medieval fortress, only the façade of a wall remains.\nAs private family inheritance from the Regent Steen Sture the Old, the royal Vasa family held Gripsholm in high regard, as reminder of the royals' descent from earlier rulers, and used the place frequently.\n\nKing Gustav had it constructed to serve as one of the main residences of the royal house. The castle was constructed between 1537 and 1545, and often served as the residence of the royal court: during the Dacke War, for example, the royal children were housed there.\n\nBetween 1563 and 1567, King Eric XIV imprisoned his brother John and his consort Catherine Jagiellon in the castle. John's son Sigismund, later the King of Poland and Sweden, was born in the castle on June 20, 1566. When Eric XIV was deposed by John, Gripsholm Castle came to serve as one of the castles were John had Eric imprisoned. The deposed king Eric was kept prisoner here from 1571 until 1573.\n\nThe royal family continued to use Gripsholm Castle during the 17th-century. It was the dower residence of the widow of Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden, Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg, who lived here from 1636 until 1640. Between 1654 and 1715, Gripsholm Castle was a part of the dower granted to queen Hedvig Eleonora, who often lived there with her court even before being widowed in 1660, and who rebuilt and expanded it in several ways. After her death, however, the Castle was abandoned by the court for some time. For a period during the 18th-century, it was used as a prison.\n\nIn 1773, Gripsholm Castle was renovated by King Gustav III on behalf of his consort Sophia Magdalena. The castle was frequently used the royal court during the reign of Gustav III, who favored it and spent several months there every year. The perhaps most famous addition to the castle during his reign was a theater, which was added in one of the castle towers. It was the stage for both the amateur theatre of the royal court as well as The French Theater of Gustav III in 1781–1792.\n\nAfter the Coup of 1809, Gustav IV Adolf and his family were also imprisoned in the castle after his deposition from the throne. He had to sign his abdication document there.\n\nIn 1822, the building came to host the National Portrait Gallery (Sweden), which was placed under the supervision of the \"Nationalmuseum\" in the 1860s.\n\nBetween 1889 and 1894, the castle underwent a heavy and controversial restoration by the architect Fredrik Lilljekvist during which many of the 17th and 18th-century alterations were removed. The largest change was the addition of a third floor; the planned demolition of a wing did not take place.\n\nNow the castle is a museum which is open to the public, containing paintings and works of art. Part of the castle houses the National Portrait Gallery (\"Statens porträttsamlingar\"), one of the oldest portrait collections in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005476", "title": "Suga Free", "text": "Suga Free\n\nDejuan Walker (born January 17, 1970), better known by his stage name Suga Free, is an American rapper and pimp from Pomona, California.\n\nSuga Free was born in Gardena and raised in Oakland, California, later becoming based in Pomona, California.\n\nHe began his professional rapping career working with DJ Quik, with Quik serving as the producer on his debut album, \"Street Gospel\", released in 1997, which reached number 37 on the \"Billboard\" Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.\n\nHe made guest appearances on Xzibit's \"Restless\" and Snoop Dogg's \"Tha Last Meal\" in 2000, and released a second album in 2004, \"The New Testament\", which peaked at number 72 on the \"Billboard\" 200. \"Just Add Water\" followed in 2006, described by AllMusic: \"\"Just Add Water\" may not be the complete handbook to being a pimp, but it certainly is a kind of missive on the life of Suga Free\". The album saw Suga described as \"charismatic and funny, with a rapid- fire-yet-conversational style\" by the \"Chicago Tribune\".\n\nAfter a ten year break Suga Free released the album \"The Resurrection\" on May 5, 2019.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005482", "title": "Ibn Majah", "text": "Ibn Majah\n\nAbū ʻAbdillāh Muḥammad ibn Yazīd Ibn Mājah al-Rabʻī al-Qazwīnī (; fl. 9th century CE) commonly known as Ibn Mājah, was a medieval scholar of hadith of Persian origin. He compiled the last of Sunni Islam's six canonical hadith collections, \"Sunan Ibn Mājah\".\n\nIbn Mājah was born in Qazwin, the modern-day Iranian province of Qazvin, in 824 CE/209 AH to a family who were clients (\"mawla\") of the Rabīʻah tribe. \"Mājah\" was the nickname of his father, and not that of his grandfather nor was it his mother's name, contrary to those claiming this. The \"hāʼ\" at the end is un-voweled whether in stopping upon its pronunciation or continuing because it a non-Arabic name.\n\nHe left his hometown to travel the Islamic world visiting Iraq, Makkah, the Levant and Egypt. He studied under Ibn Abi Shaybah (through whom came over a quarter of \"al-Sunan\"), Muḥammad ibn ʻAbdillāh ibn Numayr, Jubārah ibn al-Mughallis, Ibrāhīm ibn al-Mundhir al-Ḥizāmī, ʻAbdullāh ibn Muʻāwiyah, Hishām ibn ʻAmmār, Muḥammad ibn Rumḥ, Dāwūd ibn Rashīd and others from their era. Abū Yaʻlā al-Khalīlī praised Ibn Mājah as \"reliable (\"thiqah\"), prominent, agreed upon, a religious authority, possessing knowledge and the capability to memorize.\"\n\nAccording to al-Dhahabī, Ibn Mājah died on approximately February 19, 887 CE/with eight days remaining of the month of Ramadan, 273 AH, or, according to al-Kattānī, in either 887/273 or 889/275. He died in Qazwin.\n\nWhat he compiled/did\nAl-Dhahabī mentioned the following of Ibn Mājah's works:\n\nThe \"Sunan\" consists of 1,500 chapters and about 4,000 hadith. Upon completing it, he read it to Abu Zur’a al-Razi, a hadith authority of his time, who commented, \"I think that were people to get their hands on this, the other collections, or most of them, would be rendered obsolete.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005484", "title": "Blutengel", "text": "Blutengel\n\nBlutengel () (stylized as BlutEngel) is a German electronic music group formed by singer (also of the groups Terminal Choice, Tumor, and Miss Construction and the owner of the Fear Section label) after he had to leave Seelenkrank due to contractual and legal problems. The lyrics are written primarily in German and English and are presented with male and female vocals. The themes of the songs usually centre around themes common in Gothic fiction such as love, vampirism, sexual fetishism, death, and immortality. The band calls their musical style \"dark pop\".\n\nBlutengel was formed in 1998 after Chris Pohl had decided to give up the preceding project, Seelenkrank (which had released two albums), due to contractual problems. Just as its predecessor, Blutengel uses melodious electronic tunes in combination with both male and female voices. The lyrics are primarily in German or English and mixed between male and female vocals paired with electronic sounds and with songs often focusing on all aspects of love, from the tragedy of hopeless romance of vampires (all the way to the more animal aspects of desire) and aspects of death and the afterlife.\n\nThe first album \"Child of Glass\" was released in early 1999 with Kati Roloff and Nina Bendigkeit as the original female vocalists.\n\nIn 2001, the second album \"Seelenschmerz\" was released. Nina left to concentrate on photography and eventually form the band Formalin. Gini Martin joined the band as the second female voice alongside Kati. The first Blutengel gig ever took place at the Wave-Gotik-Treffen on June 1, 2001, in Leipzig, in front of 10,000 fans. At the end of 2001, the single \"Black Roses\" was released with as a session singer. The band performed at the Dark Storm Festival where Constance appeared on stage with Kati and Gini. This was the last time the band would play with its original line-up. Kati and Gini left the band days later for personal reasons and founded their own project together, Tristesse de la Lune. Constance, who had originally only been recruited for the single \"Black Roses\", became a full time member of Blutengel. Eva Pölzing joined soon after as a second vocalist.\n\n\"Angel Dust\" was released in 2002, placing 58th on the German Charts. The \"Angel Dust\" promotional photo-shoot and booklet was made by Nina Bendigkeit.\n\nIn 2004 their fourth album, \"Demon Kiss\", was released, featuring the single \"Forever\". A DVD release \"Live Lines\" and the album-length EP \"The Oxidising Angel\" appeared in 2005, the latter of which contained new material as well as a cover of \"Cry Little Sister\" from \"The Lost Boys\" soundtrack. In early October Eva Pölzing decided to leave the band due to other projects. Eva was replaced by Ulrike Goldmann (ex-Say-Y).\n\nFor the following two years, the band released a couple of singles with a slightly more \"pop-driven\" sound until their fifth album, \"Labyrinth\" was released in September 2007. It reached 36th in the German charts, and featured the single \"Lucifer\", and the live favourite \"Engelsblut\".\n\nIn 2009 Blutengel released the album \"Schwarzes Eis\", which featured the single \"Dancing in the Light\" and accompanying music video to promote the album. An extended edition of this album contained three full CDs, each with its own subtitle (\"Schwarzes Eis\", the instrumental \"Behind the Mirror\" and \"Redemption\"). The EP \"Soultaker\" was released later that year.\n\nIn 2010, they performed at the Amphi Festival featuring Anja Milow, Maria Rehfeld and Jenny Haufe who had been hired in 2009 as a dancers for the Schwarzes Eis Tour. Days later, it was announced on the official website that Constance had been replaced by two new singers, Anja Milow and Steffi Weingarten. Both featured on the seventh album \"Tränenherz\", released in 2011 and placed in the German charts at number 12. Two singles \"Über den Horizont\" & \"Reich Mir Die Hand\" were released to promote the album, with accompanying music videos the latter featuring Pohl's new girlfriend Viki Scarlet as the \"Bloody Girl\" in Reich Mir Die Hand who would later become a permanent dancer.\n\nThe EP \"Nachtbringer\" followed that same year. a music video was released for the title track featuring the complete lineup excluding Jenny for this video. Steffi was fired from the band before they began touring and on her official Facebook page, she wrote a statement claiming that she was not allowed to tour due to legal issues with Constance.\nJenny left in 2012, followed by Anja to focus on her job as a model for the clothing label AMF Korsets, continue college studies and work as an independent designer with her label Madone Noire.\n\nFrom May 12 to May 20, 2012 Blutengel toured North America for the first time. Playing in Mexico City, New York, San Antonio, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and in Montreal for the Kinetik Festival. After the tour Maria Rehfeld left the band.\n\nThe first single from the album \"Monument\", \"Save Our Souls\", was released in November 2012 while the second single, \"You Walk Away\", was released in January 2013. The album \"Monument\" was released in February 2013 and placed #4 & #96 on the German and Switzerland music charts respectively. \"\"Kinder dieser Stadt\" was released on July 19, 2013, as the third single from \"Monument\".\n\nBlutengel released an orchestral compilation album, \"Black Symphonies (An Orchestral Journey)\", on February 28, 2014. A single and music video for \"Krieger\" were released to promote the album.\n\nThe first single \"Asche Zu Asche\", from their upcoming album was released on November 14, 2014. The second single, \"Sing\", was released on January 23, 2015.\n\n\"Omen\" was released on February 12, 2015.\n\nThe band then embarked on the first leg of the \"Omen\" tour in April and spanning through to August. Festival appearances include Wave-Gotik-Treffen, Mera Luna Festival, and Summer Breeze Open Air.\n\nA new EP, \"In Alle Ewigkeit\", was announced via the band's website in early August as well as the tour dates for the second leg of the Omen tour, which began in November and ended in early December. The new EP was released 23 October 2015, and featured a reworking of 'Weg Zu Mir' originally from 'Child of Glass' which served as a preview for the upcoming 'Best of' album.\n\nChris Pohl recorded guest vocals on Italian industrial group Helalyn Flowers' \"Beware of Light\" single which was released by Belgian label Alfa Matrix Records in October of 2015.\n\nOn 26 February 2016, their 'best of' album \"\" was released with re-recorded versions of BlutEngel classics. To support this release, they will be playing 'Nemesis - Open Air Festival' in July.\n\nDue to legal issues, \"Omen\" was re-released under the title \"Save Us\".\n\nIn early 2016, BlutEngel entered the studio to record a new album, set for a release in February 2017.\n\n\"Complete\", the first single from the upcoming 10th album, \"Leitbild\", was released on December 2, 2016. it featured two B-sides and a remix by British darkwave act Massive Ego. The second single \"Lebe Deinen Traum\" was released as a digital single on February 3, 2017. \n\n\"Leitbild\" was released on 17 February. The album would be the band's third straight album to chart in the top 5 of the Media Control Charts at number 4. The album would also chart Swiss Music Charts at #49. BlutEngel went on Tour starting in April and ended in May to promote \"Leitbild\", with Massive Ego as their support. On 12 May, they performed an acoustic set which was recorded for release on DVD as, .\n\nAfter the \"Leitbild\" tour ended, Chris teased that he began work on a new Mini Album or EP to be released towards the end of the year. The new Mini Album was later confirmed and entitled \"Black\". The 2nd leg of the \"Leitbild\" tour was also announced for October through December, 2017. Live im Wasserschloss Klaffenbach will be released April 2018, with footage from their 'Nemesis - Open Air Festival' from July 2016.\n\nIn May, 2018 Blutengel were back in the studio working on their next album, Un:Gott, which was released 15th February 2019 and is being promoted with a tour, that began in February. The tour will once again be supported by Massive Ego.\n\nA new Mini Album \"Damokles\" is scheduled for release on November 1st, 2019.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005493", "title": "Sunan ibn Majah", "text": "Sunan ibn Majah\n\nSunan Ibn Mājah () is one of the six major Sunni hadith collections (\"Kutub al-Sittah\"). The \"Sunan\" was authored by Ibn Mājah (b. 209/824, d. 273/887).\nIt contains over 4,000 aḥādīth in 32 books \"(kutub)\" divided into 1,500 chapters \"(abwāb)\". About 20 of the traditions it contains were later declared to be forged; such as those dealing with the merits of individuals, tribes or towns, including Ibn Mājah's home town of Qazwin.\n\nSunnis regard this collection as sixth in terms of authenticity of their Six major Hadith collections. Although Ibn Mājah related hadith from scholars across the eastern Islamic world, neither he nor his \"Sunan\" were well known outside of his native region of northwestern Iran until the 5th/11th century. Muḥammad ibn Ṭāhir al-Maqdisī (d. 507/1113) remarked that while Ibn Mājah's \"Sunan\" was well regarded in Rayy, it was not widely known among the broader community of Muslim jurists outside of Iran. It was also Muḥammad b. Ṭāhir who first proposed a six-book canon of the most authentic Sunni hadith collections in his \"Shurūṭ al-aʾimma al-sitta,\" which included Ibn Mājah's \"Sunan\" alongside Sahih Bukhari, Sahih Muslim, Sunan Abu Dawud, Sunan Nasai, and Jami al-Tirmidhi. Nonetheless, consensus among Sunni scholars concerning this six-book canon, which included Ibn Mājah's \"Sunan\", did not occur until the 7th/13th century, and even then this consensus was largely contained to the Sunni scholarly community in the eastern Islamic world. Scholars such as al-Nawawi (d. 676/1277) and Ibn Khaldun (d. 808/1405) excluded \"Sunan Ibn Mājah\" from their lists of canonical Sunni hadith collections, while others replaced it with either the Muwaṭṭaʾ of Imām Mālik or with the Sunan ad-Dārimī. It was not until Ibn al-Qaisarani's formal standardization of the Sunni hadith cannon into six books in the 11th century that Ibn Majah's collection was regarded the esteem granted to the five other books.\n\nThe book is divided into 38 or 39 volumes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005506", "title": "Flyglobespan", "text": "Flyglobespan\n\nFlyglobespan was a UK low-cost airline based in Edinburgh, UK. It operated scheduled services from five airports across the UK and Ireland to destinations in Europe, North America, North Africa and South Africa. Its main bases were Glasgow Airport, Edinburgh Airport and Aberdeen Airport. The airline's slogan was \"Award-winning airline\". It went into administration due to financial problems and the airline declared bankruptcy on 16 December 2009. \nBecause of the administration, Flyglobespan cancelled all of its scheduled flights. On 14 December 2010, the business was declared to be in liquidation.\n\nFlyglobespan (a trading name for Globespan Airways Limited) was established in November 2002 as an offshoot of the Globespan Group. Operations started in April 2003 using two Boeing 737-300 aircraft provided by Channel Express on services from Glasgow Prestwick Airport and Edinburgh Airport to five destinations in Spain, France and Italy.\n\nGlobespan, an Edinburgh-based tour operator with over 30 years experience, already offered scheduled and charter flights, cruise travel, rail and coach travel, motor home and car rental, and hotel accommodation tailored for holidaymakers visiting destinations in Canada, the USA and Spain. The scheduled flights, mainly to Canada, were operated by Air Transat from airports throughout the UK, with Globespan acting as the booking agent and selling the flights under its own brand. In summer 2002 a similar arrangement was trialled between Edinburgh and Nice, in the south of France. This was to prove successful for Globespan, and led to the creation of its own no-frills brand, 'Flyglobespan'.\n\nServices began in 2003 with aircraft and crews provided by Channel Express, though under the Flyglobespan brand with red and white livery, offering irregular flights to European holiday destinations. The offshoot proved successful and flight frequencies were increased. At this point, the operator relocated from Prestwick to the larger Glasgow Airport, which is much closer to the population centres of Central Scotland, within months of commencing operation. In 2004 so it could operate its own aircraft, the Globespan Group bought the defunct airline operator Cougar Leasing along with its Civil Aviation Authority of the United Kingdom (CAA) Aircraft Operating Certificate. Now with its own Operating Licence, expansion was swift for the new airline. New destinations were added to the network, including Prague, where the airline faced competition from Czech Airlines, and further points in Spain, including the Canary Islands. CSA withdrew its Glasgow to Prague service on 1 August 2005.\n\nBy March 2005 the airline had grown to offer 15 destinations across Europe, with a fleet of nine aircraft—of which three were leased from new—and had tripled its passenger numbers to 1.5 million annually. Profits for the year ending October 2004 had risen from £2m in its first year to £3.7m, on a turnover of £98m.\n\nBBC's \"Watchdog\" programme featured the airline for a second time on 28 November 2007, where the airline was primarily featured for complaints due to a flight stopping 600 miles before its destination because the cabin crew were up to their safety limit in working hours. The CAA suspension of the airline's ETOPS licence was also featured.\n\nIn May 2005 the first domestic services were launched, with twice-daily flights from Glasgow and Edinburgh to London Stansted - routes that were already operated by the much larger low fares carrier easyJet, with much higher frequencies. However, these services were withdrawn in February 2006, together with plans to serve Bournemouth from Edinburgh.\n\nDespite high fuel costs and intense competition in the no-frills market, the airline continued to expand. Flights from London Stansted commenced in October 2005, though a new daily service between Glasgow and Amsterdam, replacing the twice daily easyJet service between the two cities, was withdrawn in June 2006 due to low passenger numbers.\n\nOn 1 November 2005 Flyglobespan announced its first long-haul service, from Glasgow to Orlando Sanford International Airport in Florida, US. The service commenced in June 2006 and was operated by a Boeing 767 aircraft in a 3 class configuration. The three classes are Economy, Premium Economy and Business Class which includes 50 inch sleeper seats, gourmet food and wines. Alicante and Málaga services were upgraded to twice-daily throughout the summer for 2006, and Murcia was served daily. Fuerteventura was added to the winter 2006 schedule. Weekly services linking Glasgow with Athens and Heraklion were launched in May 2006 for the summer season. In January 2006 Flyglobespan announced a 70% rise in pre-tax profits from the previous year.\n\nIn June 2006 the airline announced plans to operate from Aberdeen Airport after 24-hour airport operation there had been confirmed. The first route to operate from Aberdeen was Tenerife, which commenced in winter 2006. It also announced routes to Alicante, Barcelona, Faro, Murcia, Palma and Paphos, which commenced in summer 2007.\n\nLiverpool was added to the Flyglobespan network from November 2006, with flights to Tenerife. Also added is Liverpool's first connection with Hamilton/John C. Munro International Airport from May 2007. The airline also began Liverpool's first long-haul flight, to New York (JFK), using Boeing 757-200 aircraft, daily in May 2007. However, after a long series of problems with the service, due largely to reliability problems with the route's sole aircraft, which resulted in repeated massive delays on the service Flyglobespan announced in early July that they would abandon the route in October of the same year, only six months after the service's inception.\n\nFlights to Hamilton, Ontario, Canada from Manchester started in November, with two of the three weekly flights. It also commenced a three times a week service from Manchester to Cape Town, South Africa on 4 November 2006, but this service was withdrawn at the end of the 2007 Summer season.\n\nFlyglobespan started new services in May 2007 from Hamilton/John C. Munro International Airport, Canada to destinations in the UK and Ireland, including Doncaster-Sheffield Airport; this was the first scheduled transatlantic flight to operate from the airport. Hamilton Airport is located between Toronto and nearby Niagara Falls, about 75 kilometres southwest, or an hour's drive from, Toronto's main Pearson International Airport. Hamilton Airport is about one hour away from Toronto's city centre whereas Pearson International Airport is about thirty minutes away.\n\nFlyglobespan commenced services in May 2007 from Ireland West Airport Knock to John F. Kennedy International Airport with three services a week, and Boston Logan International Airport twice a week. Some flights from Knock to New York (GSM 201/202) made unscheduled refuelling stops at a number of remote locations including Keflavik, Iceland (though this is exception, which they a major hub); Bangor, Maine; Stephenville and St Johns Newfoundland. These refueling stops were scheduled when a 737-800 was used instead of the usual 757-200.\n\nIn 2007 Flyglobespan had its Skytrax rating withdrawn and suspended, owing to \"product and service inconsistency\". The airline did not regain its rating.\n\nIn July 2008 Globespan lost its ability to get insurance industry credit card repayment cover, before the collapse of Zoom and XL. From that point, credit card clearing company E-Clear, whose CEO was Elias Elia, rather than paying the normal amounts of cash to Globespan, argued that in certain cases passengers could make valid claims against them via the credit card companies up to six months after having taken their flight. E-Clear hence held a greater amount of money paid through them to Globespan.\n\nBy October 2009 the amount of money owed by E-Clear to Globespan was in dispute; Globespan later claimed it to be £35m. After various discussions, Globespan asked E-Clear to agree to independent audit of the sums, which was turned down by E-Clear. Also at this point, Halcyon Investments—the operational arm of an August 2008 Jersey-based trust fund—offered to make a large investment in Globespan. Halcyon's investors included Elias Elia.\n\nIn November 2009 \"The Independent on Sunday\" reported that Flyglobespan had required a 'last-ditch cash injection' as a result of cash flow difficulties caused following delays in payment by a credit card clearing company, E-Clear.\n\nConcerns regarding the future of the airline resurfaced on 13 December 2009 when several newspapers reported that Flyglobespan had so far been unsuccessful in obtaining regulatory approval for the funding package from Halcyon Investments. \"The Guardian\" suggested that Halcyon Investments was controlled by E-Clear. The company stated it had \"secured a financial investment package that will see Scotland's leading airline continue to prosper and grow\".\n\nThe Globespan Group PLC, Globespan Airways Limited and Alba Ground Handling Limited ceased operations on 16 December 2009 and were placed into administration on 17 December with PricewaterhouseCoopers appointed as the administrator. The last flight was GSM706 from Hurghada to Glasgow which landed at 2230 on 16 December.\n\nOn 19 January 2010 a High Court judge granted an administration order, following a request from PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC), against credit card processing firm E-Clear UK which handled all of Globespan's credit card transactions.\n\nBruce Cartwright, Joint Administrator, of PricewaterhouseCoopers stated after E-Clear UK's Administration that it was clear the funds withheld from the Globespan Group were no longer there.\n\nIt was announced in July 2007 that the Liverpool to New York and the Ireland West Airport Knock service would be suspended for the winter season from 30 October. The company gave the reason as poor passenger figures on the Liverpool flights, particularly inbound passengers from the United States. The passenger figures for Ireland West Airport Knock were higher than expected. The company also admitted to providing a poor operating service since the route was launched on 25 May 2007, which affected the passenger figures. The route was to recommence for the Summer 2008 season. The poor operating service was compounded by some PR failures and sub-standard customer service.\n\nIt was announced on 18 October 2007 that the CAA had suspended Flyglobespan's ETOPS certificate, the first time in 15 years a UK operator has lost ETOPS approval. This effectively meant Flyglobespan transatlantic flights were forced to adopt a flight path which never took the aircraft more than an hour away from the nearest airport, in case of engine problems. However, this only applied to Flyglobespan's own aircraft and leased-in aircraft could continue to follow ETOPS rules as these are operated by other airlines with their own ETOPS approval.\nFlyglobespan's ETOPS rating was reinstated at a CAA hearing on 26 October 2007.\n\nFlyglobespan operated services to the Falkland Islands and Ascension Island on behalf of the UK Government. This was in support of the military and civilian communities of those islands, and involved long-haul flights between RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire, RAF Ascension Island, and RAF Mount Pleasant on East Falkland. These flights were taken over by Air Italy on a temporary basis, before another airline puts in for a permanent basis.\n\nThe company also operated flights for the UK Ministry of Defence between RAF Brize Norton and staging posts in the Middle East in support of the operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.\n\nFlyglobespan had been planning to introduce a service in 2010 from Cardiff Airport and Edinburgh Airport to Orlando-Sanford. Weekly flights would have departed on a Wednesday from Cardiff and on a Sunday from Edinburgh, renewing direct links with Wales and the US, and a new service from Edinburgh.\n\nThe Flyglobespan fleet included the following aircraft as of 16 December 2009 prior to ceasing operations:\n\nAs of 16 December 2009, Flyglobespan's average fleet age was 6.3 years, prior to ceasing operations.\n\nFlyglobespan announced in August 2006 that it would lease two Boeing 787-8 Dreamliners from the International Lease Finance Corporation for ten years, to be delivered in March and November 2011. Due to the administration placed on 16 December 2009, the orders were cancelled.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005514", "title": "Ian Stark", "text": "Ian Stark\n\nIan David Stark, OBE (born 22 February 1954) is a retired Scottish equestrian who competed in the sport of eventing. Stark was born in Galashiels in the Borders in 1954 and began riding horses at the age of 10.\n\nStark was inducted into the Scottish Sports Hall of Fame in March 2010.\n\nIn 1984 Stark won a silver medal for eventing in the Olympic Games, which were held in Los Angeles. In 2000 Stark won a silver team medal for eventing in the Olympic Games held in Sydney, Australia.\n\nOther accomplishments are:\n\nStark retired from competition upon completing the 2007 Kentucky Three Day Event aboard Full Circle II.\n\nStark was awarded the MBE in 1989 and OBE in 2000.\n\n"}
