{"id": "1924079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924079", "title": "Comparative mythology", "text": "Comparative mythology\n\nComparative mythology is the comparison of myths from different cultures in an attempt to identify shared themes and characteristics. Comparative mythology has served a variety of academic purposes. For example, scholars have used the relationships between different myths to trace the development of religions and cultures, to propose common origins for myths from different cultures, and to support various psychological theories.\n\nAnthropologist C. Scott Littleton defines comparative mythology as \"the systematic comparison of myths and mythic themes drawn from a wide variety of cultures\". By comparing different cultures' mythologies, scholars try to identify underlying similarities and/or to reconstruct a \"protomythology\" from which those mythologies developed. To an extent, all theories about mythology follow a comparative approach—as scholar of religion Robert Segal notes, \"by definition, all theorists seek similarities among myths\". However, scholars of mythology can be roughly divided into particularists, who emphasize the differences between myths, and comparativists, who emphasize the similarities. Particularists tend to \"maintain that the similarities deciphered by comparativists are vague and superficial\", while comparativists tend to \"contend that the differences etched by particularists are trivial and incidental\".\n\nComparative approaches to mythology held great popularity among eighteenth- and nineteenth-century scholars. Many of these scholars believed that all myths showed signs of having evolved from a thought which interpreted nearly all myths as poetic descriptions of the sun's behavior. According to this theory, these poetic descriptions had become distorted over time into seemingly diverse stories about gods and heroes. However, modern-day scholars lean more toward particularism, feeling suspicious of broad statements about myths. A recent exception is the historical approach followed in E.J. Michael Witzel's reconstruction of many subsequent layers of older myths.\n\nComparative mythologists come from various fields, including folklore, anthropology, history, linguistics, and religious studies, and they have used a variety of methods to compare myths.\n\nSome scholars look at the linguistic relationships between the myths of different cultures. For example, the similarities between the names of gods in different cultures. One particularly successful example of this approach is the study of Indo-European mythology. Scholars have found striking similarities between the mythological and religious terms used in different cultures of Europe and India. For example, the Greek sky-god Zeus Pater, the Roman sky-god Jupiter, and the Indian (Vedic) sky-god Dyauṣ Pitṛ have linguistically identical names.\n\nThis suggests that the Greeks, Romans, and Indians originated from a common ancestral culture, and that the names Zeus, Jupiter, Dyaus and the Germanic Tiu (cf. English Tues-day) evolved from an older name, *Dyēus phter, which referred to the sky-god or, to give an English cognate, the \"divine father\" in a Proto-Indo-European religion.\n\nSome scholars look for underlying structures shared by different myths. The folklorist Vladimir Propp proposed that many Russian fairy tales have a common plot structure, in which certain events happen in a predictable order. In contrast, the anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss examined the structure of a myth in terms of the abstract relationships between its elements, rather than their order in the plot. In particular, Lévi-Strauss believed that the elements of a myth could be organized into binary oppositions (raw vs. cooked, nature vs. culture, etc.). He thought that the myth's purpose was to \"mediate\" these oppositions, thereby resolving basic tensions or contradictions found in human life or culture.\n\nSome scholars propose that myths from different cultures reveal the same, or similar, psychological forces at work in those cultures. Some Freudian thinkers have identified stories similar to the Greek story of Oedipus in many different cultures. They argue that these stories reflect the different expressions of the Oedipus complex in those cultures. Likewise, Jungians have identified images, themes, and patterns that appear in the myths of many different cultures. They believe that these similarities result from archetypes present in the unconscious levels of every person's mind.\n\nAn approach which is both historical and comparative has recently been proposed by E.J. Michael Witzel. He compares collections of mythologies and reconstructs increasingly older levels, parallel to but not necessarily dependent on language families. The most prominent common feature is a storyline that extends from the creation of the world and of humans to their end. This feature is found in the northern mythologies of Eurasia and the Americas (\"Laurasia\") while it is missing in the southern mythologies of Subsaharan Africa, New Guinea and Australia (\"Gondwanaland\")—the latter being the older, going back to the dispersal of homo sapiens out of Africa, some 65,000 years ago. Based on these two reconstructions Witzel offers some suggestions about the tales of the \"African Eve\". Close attention is paid to the largely parallel developments in archaeology, paleontology, genetics and linguistics. He also makes some suggestions about the persistence of these Stone Age myths in current religions.\n\nIt is speculated that like genes, myths evolve by a process of descent with modification. The striking parallels between biological and mythological evolution allow the use of computational statistics to infer evolutionary relatedness and to build the most likely phylogenetic tree for a mythological family. Mythological phylogenies constructed with mythemes clearly support low horizontal transmissions (borrowings), historical (sometimes pre-historic) diffusions and punctuated evolution. Additionally, the protoversion could be statistically reconstructed. Mythological phylogenies also are a potentially powerful way to test hypotheses about cross-cultural relationships among folktales\n\nComparative mythology has uncovered a number of parallels, or archetypes, between the myths of different cultures, including some very widespread recurring themes and plot elements.\n\nThe creation of man from clay is a theme that recurs throughout numerous world religions and mythologies.\n\nIn the Epic of Gilgamesh, Enkidu is created by the goddess Aruru out of clay. In Greek mythology, Prometheus molded men out of water and earth. Per the Hebrew Bible, (Genesis 2:7) \"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul\". In Hindu mythology the mother of Ganesh, Parvati, made Ganesh from clay and turned the clay into flesh and blood. And lastly, in Chinese mythology (see Chu Ci and Imperial Readings of the Taiping Era), Nüwa molded figures from the yellow earth, giving them life and the ability to bear children.\n\nThe theft of fire for the benefit of humanity is a theme that recurs in many world mythologies. A few examples include: In Greek mythology, according to Hesiod, the Titan Prometheus steals the heavenly fire for humanity, enabling the progress of civilization. In the Book of Enoch, the fallen angels and Azazel teach early humanity to use tools and fire. Per the ancient Indian collection of Vedic Sanskrit hymns, the Rigveda (3:9.5), speaks of a hero Mātariśvan who recovered fire which had been hidden from humanity.\n\nCultures around the world tell stories about a great flood. In many cases, the flood leaves only one survivor or group of survivors. For example, both the Babylonian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" and the Hebrew Bible tell of a global flood that wiped out humanity and of a man who saved the Earth's species by taking them aboard a boat. Similar stories of a single flood survivor appear in Hindu mythology as well as Greek, Norse mythology and Aztec mythology.\n\nMany myths feature a god who dies and often returns to life. Such myths are particularly common in Near Eastern mythologies. The anthropologist Sir James Frazer compared these dying god myths in his multi-volume work \"The Golden Bough\". The Egyptian god Osiris and the Mesopotamian god Tammuz are examples of the dying god, while the Greek myths of Adonis (though a mortal) has often been compared to Osiris and the myth of Dionysos also features death and rebirth. Some scholars have noted similarities between polytheistic stories of dying gods and the Christian story of Jesus of Nazareth.\n\nMany cultures have stories about divine figures whose death creates an essential part of reality. These myths seem especially common among cultures that grow crops, particularly tubers. One such myth from the Wemale people of Seram Island, Indonesia, tells of a miraculously-conceived girl named Hainuwele, whose murdered corpse sprouts into the people's staple food crops. The Chinese myth of Pangu, the Indian Vedic myth of Purusha, and the Norse myth of Ymir all tell of a cosmic giant who is killed to create the world.\n\nMany mythologies mention a place that sits at the center of the world and acts as a point of contact between different levels of the universe. This \"axis mundi\" is often marked by a sacred tree or other mythical object. For example, many myths describe a great tree or pillar joining heaven, earth, and the underworld. Vedic India, ancient China, Mayans, Incas and the Germanic peoples all had myths featuring a Cosmic Tree whose branches reach heaven and whose roots reach hell.\n\nMany cultures believe in a celestial supreme being who has cut off contact with humanity. Historian Mircea Eliade calls this supreme being a \"deus otiosus\" (an \"idle god\"), although this term is also used more broadly, to refer to any god who doesn't interact regularly with humans. In many myths, the Supreme Being withdraws into the heavens after the creation of the world. Baluba mythology features such a story, in which the supreme god withdraws from the earth, leaving man to search for him. Similarly, the mythology of the Hereros tells of a sky god who has abandoned mankind to lesser divinities. In the mythologies of highly complex cultures, the supreme being tends to disappear completely, replaced by a strong polytheistic belief system.\n\nMany cultures have a creation myth in which a group of younger, more civilized gods conquers and/or struggles against a group of older gods who represent the forces of chaos. In Hindu mythology, the younger \"devas\" (gods) battle the older \"asuras\" (demons), though both are born from the same father, Kashyap, the grandson of Brahma. In the Greek myth of the Titanomachy, the Olympian gods defeat the Titans, an older and more primitive divine race, and establish cosmic order. Similarly, the Celtic gods of life and light struggle against the Fomorians, ancient gods of death and darkness. This myth of the gods conquering demons – and order conquering chaos – is especially common in Indo-European mythologies. Some scholars suggest that the myth reflects the ancient Indo-Europeans' conquest of native peoples during their expansion over Europe and India.\n\nAssociated with many mythological hero stories, giants (from Latin and Ancient Greek: gigas, cognate giga-) are beings of human appearance, but of prodigious size and strength common in the mythology and legends of many different cultures. In various Indo-European mythologies, gigantic peoples are featured as primeval creatures associated with chaos and the wild nature, and they are frequently in conflict with the gods, be they Olympian, Celtic, Hindu or Norse. Giants also often play similar roles in the mythologies and folklore of other, non Indo-European peoples, such as in the Nartian traditions. There are also accounts of giants in the Old Testament. Some of these are called Nephilim, a word often translated as giant although this translation is not universally accepted. They include Og King of Bashan, the Nephilim, the Anakim, and the giants of Egypt mentioned in 1 Chronicles 11:23. The first mention of the Nephilim is found in Genesis 6:4; attributed to them are extraordinary strength and physical proportions.\n\nUsually large to gigantic, serpent-like legendary creatures that appear in the folklore of many cultures around the world. Beliefs about dragons vary drastically by region, but dragons in western cultures since the High Middle Ages have often been depicted as winged, horned, four-legged, and capable of breathing fire. Whereas dragons in eastern cultures are usually depicted as wingless, four-legged, serpentine creatures with above-average intelligence.\n\nOne on one epic battles between these beasts are noted through out many cultures. Typically they consist of a hero or god battling a single to polycephalic dragon. The motif of (; ) is ubiquitous in myth and legend, depicting a battle of a culture hero deity with a chaos monster, often in the shape of a sea serpent or dragon. A few notable examples include: Zeus vs. Typhon and Hercules vs. the Lernaean Hydra, both of which are from Greek mythology, Thor vs. Jörmungandr of Norse mythology, Indra vs. Vritra of Indian mythology, Ra vs. Apep of Egyptian mythology, and Yu the Great vs. Xiangliu. Many other examples exist worldwide.\n\nOriginating in ancient Egyptian iconography, the Ouroboros or uroborus is an ancient symbol depicting a serpent or dragon eating its own tail. The Ouroboros entered western tradition via Greek magical tradition.\n\nIn Norse mythology, the Ouroboros appears as the serpent Jörmungandr, one of the three children of Loki and Angrboda, which grew so large that it could encircle the world and grasp its tail in its teeth.\n\nIn the Aitareya Brahmana, a Vedic text of the early 1st millennium BCE, the nature of the Vedic rituals is compared to \"a snake biting its own tail.\"\n\nIt is a common belief among indigenous people of the tropical lowlands of South America that waters at the edge of the world-disc are encircled by a snake, often an anaconda, biting its own tail.\n\nMany cultures have myths describing the origin of their customs, rituals, and identity. In fact, ancient and traditional societies have often justified their customs by claiming that their gods or mythical heroes established those customs. For example, according to the myths of the Australian Karajarri, the mythical Bagadjimbiri brothers established all of the Karadjeri's customs, including the position in which they stand while urinating.\n\nA number of scholars, including Fitzroy Somerset, 4th Baron Raglan and, more recently, Joseph Campbell, have suggested that hero stories from various cultures have the same underlying structure. Folklorists such as Antti Aarne (Aarne-Thompson classification systems) and Georges Polti (The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations) have created structured reference systems to identify connections between myths from different cultures and regions. Some comparative mythologists look for similarities only among hero stories within a specific geographical or ethnic range. For example, the Austrian scholar Johann Georg von Hahn tried to identify a common structure underlying Aryan hero stories. Others, such as Campbell, propose theories about hero stories in general. According to Campbell's monomyth hypothesis, hero stories from around the world share a common plot structure. Because of its extremely comparative nature, the monomyth hypothesis is currently out of favor with some religious scholars such as Lesley Northup.\n\nHuman cannibalism features in the myths, folklore, and legends of many cultures and is most often attributed to evil characters or as extreme retribution for some wrongdoing. Examples include Lamia of Greek mythology, was a woman who became a child-eating monster after her children were destroyed by Hera, upon learning of her husband Zeus' trysts. In Zuni mythology and religion, Átahsaia is a giant cannibalistic demon, feeding on fellow demons and humans alike. He is depicted as having unblinking bulging eyes, long talons, and yellow tusks that protruded past his lips.\nThe myth of Baxbaxwalanuksiwe, in Hamatsa society of the Kwakwaka'wakw indigenous tribe, tells of a man-eating giant, who lives in a strange house with red smoke emanating from its roof.\n\n\nJournals about comparative mythology:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924080", "title": "Thargelia", "text": "Thargelia\n\nThargelia () was one of the chief Athenian festivals in honour of the Delian Apollo and Artemis, held on their birthdays, the 6th and 7th of the month Thargelion (about May 24 and May 25).\n\nEssentially an agricultural festival, the Thargelia included a purifying and expiatory ceremony. While the people offered the first-fruits of the earth to the god in token of thankfulness, it was at the same time necessary to propitiate him, lest he might ruin the harvest by excessive heat, possibly accompanied by pestilence. The purificatory preceded the thanksgiving service. On the 6th a sheep was sacrificed to Demeter Chloe on the Acropolis, and perhaps a swine to the Fates, but the most important ritual was the following. Two men, the ugliest that could be found (the Pharmakoi) were chosen to die, one for the men, the other (according to some, a woman) for the women. Hipponax of Colophon claims that on the day of the sacrifice they were led round with strings of figs on their necks, and whipped on the genitals with rods of figwood and squills. When they reached the place of sacrifice on the shore, they were stoned to death, their bodies burnt, and the ashes thrown into the sea (or over the land, to act as a fertilizing influence). However, it is unclear how accurate Hipponax's sixth-century, poetical account of the ceremony is, and there is much scholarly debate as to its reliability.\n\nIt is supposed that an actual human sacrifice took place on this occasion, replaced in later times by a milder form of expiation. Thus at Leucas a criminal was annually thrown from a rock into the sea as a scapegoat: but his fall was checked by live birds and feathers attached to his person, and men watched below in small boats, who caught him and escorted him beyond the boundary of the city. Nevertheless, many modern scholars reject this, arguing that the earliest source for the pharmakos (the iambic satirist Hipponax) shows the pharmakos being beaten and stoned, but not executed. A more plausible explanation would be that sometimes they were executed and sometimes they weren't depending on the attitude of the victim. For instance a deliberate unrepentant murderer would most likely be put to death. \nSimilarly, at Massilia, on the occasion of some heavy calamity (plague or famine), one of the poorest inhabitants volunteered as a scapegoat. For a year he was fed up at the public expense, then clothed in sacred garments, led through the city amidst execrations, and cast out beyond the boundaries.\n\nThe ceremony on the 7th was of a cheerful character. All kinds of first-fruits were carried in procession and offered to the god, and, as at the Pyanepsia (or Pyanopsia), branches of olive bound with wool, borne by children, were affixed by them to the doors of the houses. These branches, originally intended as a charm to avert failure of the crops, were afterwards regarded as forming part of a supplicatory service. On the second day choruses of men and boys took part in musical contests, the prize for which was a tripod. Further, on this day adopted persons were solemnly received into the genos and phratria of their adoptive parents.\n\n\nSee also: https://books.google.com/books?id=YTfxZH4QnqgC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Greek+religion+and+culture,+the+Bible,+and+the+ancient+Near+East&hl=en&sa=X&ei=0IPsToTyCIKf-waWucmJAg&ved=0CDcQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=Greek%20religion%20and%20culture%2C%20the%20Bible%2C%20and%20the%20ancient%20Near%20East&f=false\n"}
{"id": "1924082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924082", "title": "Frank Noon", "text": "Frank Noon\n\nFrank Noon is a British drummer who played with the bands Def Leppard and Roadhouse with guitarist Pete Willis.\n\nHe was preceded in Def Leppard by original drummer Tony Kenning and succeeded by current drummer Rick Allen.\n\nHe was succeeded in Roadhouse by drummer Trevor Brewis.\n\nFrank Noon was a member of the trio The Next Band before, during, and after the time he was in Def Leppard, and played on The Next Band's \"Four By Three E.P.\".\n\nFrank Noon played on Def Leppard's \"The Def Leppard E.P.\", in 1978.\n\nAbout thirteen years later, Frank Noon played in the band Roadhouse with Pete Willis, who was a member of Def Leppard when Frank performed with them. He played on Roadhouse's demo, but was replaced by drummer Trevor Brewis before the recording of Roadhouse's album.\n\nFrank Noon also play drums for various other bands including Lionheart, Wild Fire, Wild Horses (not the same band that Johnny Edwards, Rick Steier and James Kottak were in), Stampede, Waysted, Di'anno, More and Crazy Lesbians.\n\nFrank Noon was never an official member of Def Leppard. Although he was asked to join permanently, he declined the offer to stay with The Next Band. Def Leppard, just recently booking studio time and very recently without a drummer, hired Frank Noon to play. The studio was the only time they have ever played together. In February 2003, Frank Noon joined the reformed Atomic Mass for a photo at the Hallam FM Arena .\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924090", "title": "Highland Railway Strath Class", "text": "Highland Railway Strath Class\n\nThe Highland Railway Strath Class were 4-4-0 steam locomotives introduced in 1892, to the design of David Jones.\n\nTwelve were built by Neilson and Company and delivered between May and July 1892.\n\nThey were identical to the class E \"Clyde Bogies\" apart from having boilers of a larger diameter which allowed an increased heating surface.\n\nHalf of the class survived to be taken over by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) at the 1923 Grouping but the last was withdrawn in 1930.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924098", "title": "Rewa River", "text": "Rewa River\n\nThe Rewa River is the widest river in Fiji. Located on the island of Viti Levu, the Rewa originates in Tomanivi, the highest peak in Fiji, and flows southeast for 145 km to Laucala Bay, near Suva. The Rewa River drains approximately one-third of Viti Levu.\n\nThe Rewa River is fed by two large tributaries, the Wainibuka and the Wainimala and it is joined by several other rivers of importance before it reaches the sea by a delta of many mouths. It is navigable by small crafts up 100 kilometers from its mouth and its basin is enriched by a deep deposit of alluvial soil. The delta of the river is where several Fijian villages are situated . The Rewa River is crossed by the Rewa Bridge at Nausori.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924100", "title": "Fire ecology", "text": "Fire ecology\n\nFire ecology is a scientific discipline concerned with natural processes involving fire in an ecosystem and the ecological effects, the interactions between fire and the abiotic and biotic components of an ecosystem, and the role as an ecosystem process. Many ecosystems, particularly prairie, savanna, chaparral and coniferous forests, have evolved with fire as an essential contributor to habitat vitality and renewal. Many plant species in fire-affected environments require fire to germinate, establish, or to reproduce. Wildfire suppression not only eliminates these species, but also the animals that depend upon them.\n\nCampaigns in the United States have historically molded public opinion to believe that wildfires are always harmful to nature. This view is based on the outdated beliefs that ecosystems progress toward an equilibrium and that any disturbance, such as fire, disrupts the harmony of nature. More recent ecological research has shown, however, that fire is an integral component in the function and biodiversity of many natural habitats, and that the organisms within these communities have adapted to withstand, and even to exploit, natural wildfire. More generally, fire is now regarded as a 'natural disturbance', similar to flooding, wind-storms, and landslides, that has driven the evolution of species and controls the characteristics of ecosystems.\n\nFire suppression, in combination with other human-caused environmental changes, may have resulted in unforeseen consequences for natural ecosystems. Some large wildfires in the United States have been blamed on years of fire suppression and the continuing expansion of people into fire-adapted ecosystems, but climate change is more likely responsible. Land managers are faced with tough questions regarding how to restore a natural fire regime, but allowing wildfires to burn is the least expensive and likely most effective method.\n\nA fire regime describes the characteristics of fire and how it interacts with a particular ecosystem. Its \"severity\" is a term that ecologists use to refer to the impact that a fire has on an ecosystem. Ecologists can define this in many ways, but one way is through an estimate of plant mortality. Fire can burn at three levels. Ground fires will burn through soil that is rich in organic matter. Surface fires will burn through dead plant material that is lying on the ground. Crown fires will burn in the tops of shrubs and trees. Ecosystems generally experience a mix of all three.\n\nFires will often break out during a dry season, but in some areas wildfires may also commonly occur during a time of year when lightning is prevalent. The frequency over a span of years at which fire will occur at a particular location is a measure of how common wildfires are in a given ecosystem. It is either defined as the average interval between fires at a given site, or the average interval between fires in an equivalent specified area.\n\nDefined as the energy released per unit length of fireline (kW m), wildfire intensity can be estimated either as\n\n\nFires can affect soils through heating and combustion processes. Depending on the temperatures of the soils caused by the combustion processes, different effects will happen- from evaporation of water at the lower temperature ranges, to the combustion of soil organic matter and formation of pyrogenic organic matter, otherwise known as charcoal.\n\nFires can cause changes in soil nutrients through a variety of mechanisms, which include oxidation, volatilization, erosion, and leaching by water, but the event must usually be of high temperatures in order of significant loss of nutrients to occur. However, quantity of nutrients available in soils are usually increased due to the ash that is generated, and this is made quickly available, as opposed to the slow release of nutrients by decomposition. Rock spalling (or thermal exfoliation) accelerates weathering of rock and potentially the release of some nutrients.\n\nIncrease in the pH of the soil following a fire is commonly observed, most likely due to the formation of calcium carbonate, and the subsequent decomposition of this calcium carbonate to calcium oxide when temperatures get even higher. It could also be due to the increased cation content in the soil due to the ash, which temporarily increases soil pH. Microbial activity in the soil might also increase due to the heating of soil and increased nutrient content in the soil, though studies have also found complete loss of microbes on the top layer of soil after a fire. Overall, soils become more basic (higher pH) following fires because of acid combustion. By driving novel chemical reactions at high temperatures, fire can even alter the texture and structure of soils by affecting the clay content and the soil's porosity.\n\nRemoval of vegetation following a fire can cause several effects on the soil, such as increasing the temperatures of the soil during the day due to increased solar radiation on the soil surface, and greater cooling due to loss of radiative heat at night. Fewer leaves to intercept rain will also cause more rain to reach the soil surface, and with fewer plants to absorb the water, the amount of water content in the soils might increase. However, it might be seen that ash can be water repellent when dry, and therefore water content and availability might not actually increase.\n\nPlants have evolved many adaptations to cope with fire. Of these adaptations, one of the best-known is likely \"pyriscence\", where maturation and release of seeds is triggered, in whole or in part, by fire or smoke; this behaviour is often erroneously called \"serotiny\", although this term truly denotes the much broader category of seed release activated by any stimulus. All pyriscent plants are serotinous, but not all serotinous plants are pyriscent (some are necriscent, hygriscent, xeriscent, soliscent, or some combination thereof). On the other hand, germination of seed activated by trigger is not to be confused with pyriscence; it is known as \"physiological dormancy\".\n\nIn chaparral communities in Southern California, for example, some plants have leaves coated in flammable oils that encourage an intense fire. This heat causes their fire-activated seeds to germinate (an example of dormancy) and the young plants can then capitalize on the lack of competition in a burnt landscape. Other plants have smoke-activated seeds, or fire-activated buds. The cones of the Lodgepole pine (\"Pinus contorta\") are, conversely, pyriscent: they are sealed with a resin that a fire melts away, releasing the seeds. Many plant species, including the shade-intolerant giant sequoia (\"Sequoiadendron giganteum\"), require fire to make gaps in the vegetation canopy that will let in light, allowing their seedlings to compete with the more shade-tolerant seedlings of other species, and so establish themselves. Because their stationary nature precludes any fire avoidance, plant species may only be fire-intolerant, fire-tolerant or fire-resistant.\n\nFire-intolerant plant species tend to be highly flammable and are destroyed completely by fire. Some of these plants and their seeds may simply fade from the community after a fire and not return; others have adapted to ensure that their offspring survives into the next generation. \"Obligate seeders\" are plants with large, fire-activated seed banks that germinate, grow, and mature rapidly following a fire, in order to reproduce and renew the seed bank before the next fire.\nSeeds may contain the receptor protein KAI2, that is activated by the growth hormones karrikin released by the fire.\nFire-tolerant species are able to withstand a degree of burning and continue growing despite damage from fire. These plants are sometimes referred to as \"resprouters.\" Ecologists have shown that some species of resprouters store extra energy in their roots to aid recovery and re-growth following a fire. For example, after an Australian bushfire, the Mountain Grey Gum tree (\"Eucalyptus cypellocarpa\") starts producing a mass of shoots of leaves from the base of the tree all the way up the trunk towards the top, making it look like a black stick completely covered with young, green leaves.\n\nFire-resistant plants suffer little damage during a characteristic fire regime. These include large trees whose flammable parts are high above surface fires. Mature ponderosa pine (\"Pinus ponderosa\") is an example of a tree species that suffers virtually no crown damage under a naturally mild fire regime, because it sheds its lower, vulnerable branches as it matures.\n\nLike plants, animals display a range of abilities to cope with fire, but they differ from most plants in that they must avoid the actual fire to survive. Although birds are vulnerable when nesting, they are generally able to escape a fire; indeed they often profit from being able to take prey fleeing from a fire and to recolonize burned areas quickly afterwards. Some anthropological and ethno-ornithological evidence suggests that certain species of fire-foraging raptors may engage in intentional fire propagation to flush out prey. Mammals are often capable of fleeing a fire, or seeking cover if they can burrow. Amphibians and reptiles may avoid flames by burrowing into the ground or using the burrows of other animals. Amphibians in particular are able to take refuge in water or very wet mud.\n\nSome arthropods also take shelter during a fire, although the heat and smoke may actually attract some of them, to their peril. Microbial organisms in the soil vary in their heat tolerance but are more likely to be able to survive a fire the deeper they are in the soil. A low fire intensity, a quick passing of the flames and a dry soil will also help. An increase in available nutrients after the fire has passed may result in larger microbial communities than before the fire. The generally greater heat tolerance of bacteria relative to fungi makes it possible for soil microbial population diversity to change following a fire, depending on the severity of the fire, the depth of the microbes in the soil, and the presence of plant cover. Certain species of fungi, such as \"Cylindrocarpon destructans\" appear to be unaffected by combustion contaminants, which can inhibit re-population of burnt soil by other microorganisms, and therefore have a higher chance of surviving fire disturbance and then recolonizing and out-competing other fungal species afterwards.\n\nFire behavior is different in every ecosystem and the organisms in those ecosystems have adapted accordingly. One sweeping generality is that in all ecosystems, fire creates a mosaic of different habitat patches, with areas ranging from those having just been burned to those that have been untouched by fire for many years. This is a form of ecological succession in which a freshly burned site will progress through continuous and directional phases of colonization following the destruction caused by the fire. Ecologists usually characterize succession through the changes in vegetation that successively arise. After a fire, the first species to re-colonize will be those with seeds are already present in the soil, or those with seeds are able to travel into the burned area quickly. These are generally fast-growing herbaceous plants that require light and are intolerant of shading. As time passes, more slowly growing, shade-tolerant woody species will suppress some of the herbaceous plants. Conifers are often early successional species, while broad leaf trees frequently replace them in the absence of fire. Hence, many conifer forests are themselves dependent upon recurring fire.\n\nDifferent species of plants, animals, and microbes specialize in exploiting different stages in this process of succession, and by creating these different types of patches, fire allows a greater number of species to exist within a landscape. Soil characteristics will be a factor in determining the specific nature of a fire-adapted ecosystem, as will climate and topography.\n\nMild to moderate fires burn in the forest understory, removing small trees and herbaceous groundcover. High-severity fires will burn into the crowns of the trees and kill most of the dominant vegetation. Crown fires may require support from ground fuels to maintain the fire in the forest canopy (passive crown fires), or the fire may burn in the canopy independently of any ground fuel support (an active crown fire). High-severity fire creates complex early seral forest habitat, or snag forest with high levels of biodiversity. When a forest burns frequently and thus has less plant litter build-up, below-ground soil temperatures rise only slightly and will not be lethal to roots that lie deep in the soil. Although other characteristics of a forest will influence the impact of fire upon it, factors such as climate and topography play an important role in determining fire severity and fire extent. Fires spread most widely during drought years, are most severe on upper slopes and are influenced by the type of vegetation that is growing.\n\nIn Canada, forests cover about 10% of the land area and yet harbor 70% of the country’s bird and terrestrial mammal species. Natural fire regimes are important in maintaining a diverse assemblage of vertebrate species in up to twelve different forest types in British Columbia. Different species have adapted to exploit the different stages of succession, regrowth and habitat change that occurs following an episode of burning, such as downed trees and debris. The characteristics of the initial fire, such as its size and intensity, cause the habitat to evolve differentially afterwards and influence how vertebrate species are able to use the burned areas.\n\nShrub fires typically concentrate in the canopy and spread continuously if the shrubs are close enough together. Shrublands are typically dry and are prone to accumulations of highly volatile fuels, especially on hillsides. Fires will follow the path of least moisture and the greatest amount of dead fuel material. Surface and below-ground soil temperatures during a burn are generally higher than those of forest fires because the centers of combustion lie closer to the ground, although this can vary greatly. Common plants in shrubland or chaparral include manzanita, chamise and Coyote Brush.\n\nCalifornia shrubland, commonly known as chaparral, is a widespread plant community of low growing species, typically on arid sloping areas of the California Coast Ranges or western foothills of the Sierra Nevada. There are a number of common shrubs and tree shrub forms in this association, including salal, toyon, coffeeberry and Western poison oak. Regeneration following a fire is usually a major factor in the association of these species.\n\nFynbos shrublands occur in a small belt across South Africa. The plant species in this ecosystem are highly diverse, yet the majority of these species are obligate seeders, that is, a fire will cause germination of the seeds and the plants will begin a new life-cycle because of it. These plants may have coevolved into obligate seeders as a response to fire and nutrient-poor soils. Because fire is common in this ecosystem and the soil has limited nutrients, it is most efficient for plants to produce many seeds and then die in the next fire. Investing a lot of energy in roots to survive the next fire when those roots will be able to extract little extra benefit from the nutrient-poor soil would be less efficient. It is possible that the rapid generation time that these obligate seeders display has led to more rapid evolution and speciation in this ecosystem, resulting in its highly diverse plant community.\n\nGrasslands burn more readily than forest and shrub ecosystems, with the fire moving through the stems and leaves of herbaceous plants and only lightly heating the underlying soil, even in cases of high intensity. In most grassland ecosystems, fire is the primary mode of decomposition, making it crucial in the recycling of nutrients. In some grassland systems, fire only became the primary mode of decomposition after the disappearance of large migratory herds of browsing or grazing megafauna driven by predator pressure. In the absence of functional communities of large migratory herds of herbivorous megafauna and attendant predators, overuse of fire to maintain grassland ecosystems may lead to excessive oxidation, loss of carbon, and desertification in susceptible climates. Some grassland ecosystems respond poorly to fire.\n\nIn North America fire-adapted invasive grasses such as Bromus tectorum contribute to increased fire frequency which exerts selective pressure against native species. This is a concern for grasslands in the Western United States.\n\nIn less arid grassland presettlement fires worked in concert\n\nIn the savanna of South Africa, recently burned areas have new growth that provides palatable and nutritious forage compared to older, tougher grasses. This new forage attracts large herbivores from areas of unburned and grazed grassland that has been kept short by constant grazing. On these unburned \"lawns\", only those plant species adapted to heavy grazing are able to persist; but the distraction provided by the newly burned areas allows grazing-intolerant grasses to grow back into the lawns that have been temporarily abandoned, so allowing these species to persist within that ecosystem.\n\nMuch of the southeastern United States was once open longleaf pine forest with a rich understory of grasses, sedges, carnivorous plants and orchids. The above maps shows that these ecosystems (coded as pale blue) had the highest fire frequency of any habitat, once per decade or less. Without fire, deciduous forest trees invade, and their shade eliminates both the pines and the understory. Some of the typical plants associated with fire include Yellow Pitcher Plant and Rose pogonia. The abundance and diversity of such plants is closely related to fire frequency. Rare animals such as gopher tortoises and indigo snakes also depend upon these open grasslands and flatwoods. Hence, the restoration of fire is a priority to maintain species composition and biological diversity.\n\nAlthough it may seem strange, many kinds of wetlands are also influenced by fire. \nThis usually occurs during periods of drought. \nIn landscapes with peat soils, such as bogs, the peat substrate itself may burn, leaving holes that refill with water as new ponds. \nFires that are less intense will remove accumulated litter and allow other wetland plants to regenerate from buried seeds, or from rhizomes. \nWetlands that are influenced by fire include coastal marshes, wet prairies, peat bogs, floodplains, prairie marshes and flatwoods.\nSince wetlands can store large amounts of carbon in peat, the fire frequency of vast northern peatlands is linked to processes controlling the carbon dioxide levels of the atmosphere, and to the phenomenon of global warming.\nDissolved organic carbon (DOC) is abundant in wetlands and plays a critical role in their ecology. In the Florida Everglades, a significant portion of the DOC is \"dissolved charcoal\" indicating that fire can play a critical role in wetland ecosystems.\n\nFire serves many important functions within fire-adapted ecosystems. Fire plays an important role in nutrient cycling, diversity maintenance and habitat structure. The suppression of fire can lead to unforeseen changes in ecosystems that often adversely affect the plants, animals and humans that depend upon that habitat. Wildfires that deviate from a historical fire regime because of fire suppression are called \"uncharacteristic fires\".\n\nIn 2003, southern California witnessed powerful chaparral wildfires. Hundreds of homes and hundreds of thousands of acres of land went up in flames. Extreme fire weather (low humidity, low fuel moisture and high winds) and the accumulation of dead plant material from 8 years of drought, contributed to a catastrophic outcome. Although some have maintained that fire suppression contributed to an unnatural buildup of fuel loads, a detailed analysis of historical fire data has showed that this may not have been the case. Fire suppression activities had failed to exclude fire from the southern California chaparral. Research showing differences in fire size and frequency between southern California and Baja has been used to imply that the larger fires north of the border are the result of fire suppression, but this opinion has been challenged by numerous investigators and is no longer supported by the majority of fire ecologists.\n\nOne consequence of the fires in 2003 has been the increased density of invasive and non-native plant species that have quickly colonized burned areas, especially those that had already been burned in the previous 15 years. Because shrubs in these communities are adapted to a particular historical fire regime, altered fire regimes may change the selective pressures on plants and favor invasive and non-native species that are better able to exploit the novel post-fire conditions.\n\nThe Boise National Forest is a US national forest located north and east of the city of Boise, Idaho. Following several uncharacteristically large wildfires, an immediately negative impact on fish populations was observed, posing particular danger to small and isolated fish populations. In the long term, however, fire appears to rejuvenate fish habitats by causing hydraulic changes that increase flooding and lead to silt removal and the deposition of a favorable habitat substrate. This leads to larger post-fire populations of the fish that are able to recolonize these improved areas. But although fire generally appears favorable for fish populations in these ecosystems, the more intense effects of uncharacteristic wildfires, in combination with the fragmentation of populations by human barriers to dispersal such as weirs and dams, \"will\" pose a threat to fish populations.\n\nRestoration ecology is the name given to an attempt to reverse or mitigate some of the changes that humans have caused to an ecosystem. Controlled burning is one tool that is currently receiving considerable attention as a means of restoration and management. Applying fire to an ecosystem may create habitats for species that have been negatively impacted by fire suppression, or fire may be used as a way of controlling invasive species without resorting to herbicides or pesticides. However, there is debate as to what state managers should aim to restore their ecosystems to, especially as to whether \"natural\" means pre-human or pre-European. Native American use of fire, not natural fires, historically maintained the diversity of the savannas of North America. When, how, and where managers should use fire as a management tool is a subject of debate.\n\nA combination of heavy livestock grazing and fire-suppression has drastically altered the structure, composition, and diversity of the shortgrass prairie ecosystem on the Great Plains, allowing woody species to dominate many areas and promoting fire-intolerant invasive species. In semi-arid ecosystems where the decomposition of woody material is slow, fire is crucial for returning nutrients to the soil and allowing the grasslands to maintain their high productivity.\n\nAlthough fire can occur during the growing or the dormant seasons, managed fire during the dormant season is most effective at increasing the grass and forb cover, biodiversity and plant nutrient uptake in shortgrass prairies. Managers must also take into account, however, how invasive and non-native species respond to fire if they want to restore the integrity of a native ecosystem. For example, fire can only control the invasive spotted knapweed (\"Centaurea maculosa\") on the Michigan tallgrass prairie in the summer, because this is the time in the knapweed's life cycle that is most important to its reproductive growth.\n\nMixed conifer forests in the United States Sierra Nevada used to have fire return intervals that ranged from 5 years up to 300 years, depending on the local climate. Lower elevations had more frequent fire return intervals, whilst higher and wetter elevations saw much longer intervals between fires. Native Americans tended to set fires during fall and winter, and land at a higher elevation was generally occupied by Native Americans only during the summer.\n\nThe decline of habitat area and quality has caused many species populations to be red-listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. According to a study on forest management of Finnish boreal forests, improving the habitat quality of areas outside reserves can help in conservation efforts of endangered deadwood-dependent beetles. These beetles and various types of fungi both need dead trees in order to survive. Old growth forests can provide this particular habitat. However, most Fennoscandian boreal forested areas are used for timber and therefore are unprotected. The use of controlled burning and tree retention of a forested area with deadwood was studied and its effect on the endangered beetles. The study found that after the first year of management the number of species increased in abundance and richness compared to pre-fire treatment. The abundance of beetles continued to increase the following year in sites where tree retention was high and deadwood was abundant. The correlation between forest fire management and increased beetle populations shows a key to conserving these red-listed species.\n\nMuch of the old growth eucalypt forest in Australia is designated for conservation. Management of these forests is important because species like \"Eucalyptus grandis\" rely on fire to survive. There are a few eucalypt species that do not have a lignotuber, a root swelling structure that contains buds where new shoots can then sprout. During a fire a lignotuber is helpful in the reestablishment of the plant. Because some eucalypts do not have this particular mechanism, forest fire management can be helpful by creating rich soil, killing competitors, and allowing seeds to be released.\n\nFire policy in the United States involves the federal government, individual state governments, tribal governments, interest groups, and the general public. The new federal outlook on fire policy parallels advances in ecology and is moving towards the view that many ecosystems depend on disturbance for their diversity and for the proper maintenance of their natural processes. Although human safety is still the number one priority in fire management, new US government objectives include a long-term view of ecosystems. The newest policy allows managers to gauge the relative values of private property and resources in particular situations and to set their priorities accordingly.\n\nOne of the primary goals in fire management is to improve public education in order to suppress the \"Smokey Bear\" fire-suppression mentality and introduce the public to the benefits of regular natural fires.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924101", "title": "Screen burn-in", "text": "Screen burn-in\n\nScreen burn-in, image burn-in, or ghost image, colloquially known as screen burn or ghosting, is a discoloration of areas on an electronic display such as a CRT display or an old computer monitor or television set caused by cumulative non-uniform use of the pixels. For newer displays like LCD monitors, they may suffer from a phenomenon called image persistence instead, which is not permanent.\n\nWith phosphor-based electronic displays (for example CRT-type computer monitors or plasma displays), non-uniform use of pixels, such as prolonged display of non-moving images (text or graphics), gaming, or certain broadcasts with tickers and flags, can create a permanent ghost-like image of these objects or otherwise degrade image quality. This is because the phosphor compounds which emit light to produce images lose their luminance with use. Uneven use results in uneven light output over time, and in severe cases can create a ghost image of previous content. Even if ghost images are not recognizable, the effects of screen burn are an immediate and continual degradation of image quality.\n\nThe length of time required for noticeable screen burn to develop varies due to many factors, ranging from the quality of the phosphors employed, to the degree of non-uniformity of sub-pixel use. It can take as little as only a few weeks for noticeable ghosting to set in, especially if the screen displays a certain image (example: a menu bar at the top or bottom of the screen) constantly, and displays it continually over time. In the rare case when horizontal or vertical deflection circuits fail, all output energy is concentrated to a vertical or horizontal line on the display which causes almost instant screen burn.\n\nPhosphor burn-in is particularly prevalent with monochromatic CRT screens, such as the amber or green monochrome monitors common on older computer systems and dumb terminal stations. This is partly because those screens displayed mostly non-moving images, and at one intensity: fully on. Yellow screens are more susceptible than either green or white screens because the yellow phosphor is less efficient and thus requires a higher beam current. Color screens, by contrast, use three separate phosphors (red, green, and blue), mixed in varying intensities to achieve specific colors, and in typical usage patterns such as \"traditional\" TV viewing (non-gaming, non-converged TV usage, non-Internet browsing, broadcasts without tickers or flags, no prolonged or permanent letterboxing) are used for operations where colors and on-screen object placement approach uniformity.\n\nModern CRT displays are less susceptible than older CRTs prior to the 1960s because they have a layer of aluminum behind the phosphor which offers some protection. The aluminum layer was provided to reflect more light from the phosphor towards the viewer. As a bonus, the aluminum layer also prevented ion burn of the phosphor and the ion trap, common to older monochrome televisions, was no longer required.\n\nPlasma displays were at one time highly susceptible to burn-in, while LCD-type displays are generally not affected. The wide variation in luminance degradation with RGB-based OLED will cause noticeable color drift over time (where one of the red-green-blue colors becomes more prominent).\n\nIn the case of LCDs, the mechanics of burn-in are different than plasma and OLED, which develop burn-in from luminance degradation of the light-emitting pixels. For LCDs, burn-in develops in some cases because pixels permanently lose their ability to return to their relaxed state after a continued static use profile. In most typical usage profiles, this image persistence in LCD is only transient.\n\nBoth plasma-type and LCD-type displays exhibit a similar phenomenon called transient image persistence, which is similar to screen burn but is not permanent. In the case of plasma-type displays, transient image persistence is caused by charge build-up in the pixel cells (not cumulative luminance degradation as with burn-in), which can be seen sometimes when a bright image that was set against a dark background is replaced by a dark background only; this image retention is usually released once a typical-brightness image is displayed and does not inhibit the display's typical viewing image quality.\n\nScreensavers derive their name from their original purpose, which was an active method of attempting to stave off screen burn. By ensuring that no pixel or group of pixels was left displaying a static image for extended periods of time, phosphor luminosity was preserved. Modern screensavers can turn off the screen when not in use.\n\nIn many cases, the use of a screensaver is impractical. Most plasma-type display manufacturers include methods for reducing the rate of burn-in by moving the image slightly, which does not eliminate screen burn, but can soften the edges of any ghost image that does develop. Similar techniques exist for modern OLED displays. For example, manufacturers of Android Wear watches with OLED displays can request that Android Wear enable \"burn protection techniques\" that periodically shift the contents of the screen by a few pixels.\n\nOther examples: Apple’s iPhone X and Samsung’s Galaxy series both mitigate or delay the onset of burn-in by shifting the pixels every minute or so and same for the battery, wifi, location, and service bars. Also, parallax scrolling may be enabled for the home screen to give icons a 3D-like effect, a setting Apple refers to as \"perspective zoom\".\n\nGoogle requests that when these techniques are enabled, watch face developers do not use large blocks of pixels so that different pixels are burned in with each shift, reducing the overall wear of the pixels.\n\nSome screensavers move around, such as those on DVD players, or those on some televisions that move around paused video after a long period of inactivity.\n\nDepending on the type of screen, it is sometimes possible to remedy screen burn-in through the use of remedial software and remedial devices. In the case of OLED screens on Android phones, burn-in reduction apps can display an inverted image of the navigation and status bars (which are constantly displayed and therefore the most likely elements to be burned in) to burn in opposite pattern, resulting in a screen whose sub-pixels have more even luminosity and therefore less visible burn-in artifacts.\n\nThe most prevalent burn-in image on early televisions was said to be that of the RCA Indian-head test pattern, which would often follow the formal television station sign-off. This was due to the viewer leaving the television set on at the end of the day, which was not recommended by the television manufacturers.\n"}
{"id": "1924106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924106", "title": "Monopoly Tycoon", "text": "Monopoly Tycoon\n\nMonopoly Tycoon is a construction and management simulation PC game published in 2001. The player operates a business that owns stores and apartments in a city derived from the Monopoly board game. Instead of using dice, the game relies more on the speed and innovativeness of the players. In the standard mode, the user plays against the AI opponents. In the multiplayer version, players go against other online players in order to gain victory.\n\nThere are various levels with varying difficulty. Some involve just financial prosperity of the businesses while others involve success in the political arena. But the primary objective of most levels is to accumulate the most wealth in the given time.\n\nIn \"Monopoly Tycoon\", the player operates a business by owning businesses, apartments, and being landlord to blocks. The player earns income from selling products and services, housing people in apartments and hotels. Income is also generated from rent for any blocks that the player is landlord of, plus utilities and railroads.\n\n\"Monopoly Tycoon\" has the same set of blocks as the board game with an additional three. When a player is landlord of all blocks of the same color, they are able to build hotels. In addition, being landlord of any property allows the player to build park space.\n\nAs in the board game, there are railroads and utilities blocks that players can become landlord of and receive income from. To become landlord, there is an auction among the players with the property going to the highest bidder.\n\nAt the end of the day, the player is offered a mystery card similar to those from the board game. Some of the cards are a simple deposit or withdrawal of money from the player's account. Other cards allow the player to aid his businesses or harm the opponent, say by restocking one of his stores or giving an opponent block bad publicity.\n\nMonopoly Tycoon also includes support for multiplayer game play over a LAN or Internet connection. Additionally, there is support for finding live online opponents through the included GameSpy Arcade software.\n\nThe music of the game is lighthearted and changes as the game progresses through the different decades. For example, in the 1970s (1970 and 1975 Monopoly Tycoon years), music from the 1970s can be heard; in 1990 and 1995, 1990s music plays. This music will play until the year 2030 is reached (this year can only be reached in the \"My Mega Metropolis\" level, \"Starting Out\", \"A Homely City\", \"Sell, Sell, Sell\", and the \"First to be Worth $20,000, $25,000, or $40,000\" levels). At that point, music from the 1930s can be heard from then on.\n\nAfter every two days at midnight, the music from the previous decade becomes quieter and quickly fades away, while the music from the next decade starts at normal volume. For example, when midnight of 1960 occurs, the music from the 1950s fades away and the music from the 1960s plays at normal volume.\n\nOther sounds indicate the time of day. People, cars, and the wind all make noises, in varying degrees depending on the time of day. For example, during the morning, footsteps of people waking up and coming out of their apartments is played to signify the time the city wakes up. Throughout the game, also, the sound of coins falling can be heard when the player makes money.\n\nEnabling the music makes the game crash on Windows Vista and later. This is due to the usage of the DirectShow Windows Media Source Filter being used to stream .wma files directly, instead of from the CD. The filter is also utilized by Windows Media Player 6.4, which gets installed alongside the game. It was deprecated in favor of Media Foundation in Windows Vista, with higher quality streaming of .wma files. Only three games so far are known to use this filter.\n\n\"Monopoly Tycoon\" was a commercial success, selling nearly 2 million copies by 2006. Lead designer Clive Robert explained that these sales \"took years\" to achieve, and that the game continued to sell as of 2006, after its release in September 2001. In the United States, \"Monopoly Tycoon\" sold 290,000 copies and earned $6.8 million by August 2006. \"Edge\" ranked it as the 66th best-selling computer game released in the country between January 2000 and August 2006.\n\n\"Monopoly Tycoon\" received generally positive reviews from critics. It received a 'great' score of 8.5/10 from GameSpot and a 'great' score from IGN of 8.2/10. Trey Walker at GameSpot said that \"Monopoly Tycoon is the kind of game you might have imagined as a kid while you played the real board game.\"\n\nThe developers of the game, however, were critical of their work saying that \"I don’t think we got it entirely right either.\"\n\nThe Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences nominated \"Monopoly Tycoon\" for its 2001 \"Online Game Play of the Year\" and \"Outstanding Achievement in Game Play Engineering\" awards, which ultimately went to \"Return to Castle Wolfenstein\" and \"Grand Theft Auto III\", respectively. \"Monopoly Tycoon\" was also a nominee for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 2001 \"Best Strategy Game\" award, although it lost to \"\". The editors presented \"Monopoly Tycoon\" with a special prize for the \"Best Use of a License That Was Ignored\", and wrote, \"Blessed with great AI and gameplay, \"Monopoly Tycoon\" was probably the most pleasant surprise of the year.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1924117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924117", "title": "Nigel Harman", "text": "Nigel Harman\n\nNigel Derek Harman (born 11 August 1973) is a British actor, best known for his role as heartthrob Dennis Rickman in the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\". He has worked mostly in theatre, with the stage being described as his \"first love\". He starred in the final series of \"Hotel Babylon\". In early 2013 he started filming for the fourth series of Downton Abbey, playing visiting valet, Mr Green. From 2013 until the series ended in 2017, he played the role of Bradley Dawson in Sky One's \"Mount Pleasant\". As of 2019 he stars as Lloyd in Season 4 of Cuckoo.\n\nIn the theatre, he has played various musical roles including Sky Masterson in Michael Grandage's revival of \"Guys and Dolls\" and Lord Farquaad in the original London production of \"Shrek the Musical\" for which he received an Olivier Award for his performance.\n\nHarman grew up in Woldingham, and was educated at elite Dulwich College. However, he found school difficult: \"I was never comfortable sitting down. I always wanted to get involved in something, not just learn and write. I was in so much trouble I had my own desk in detention.\" His father was a bank manager, but also involved in amateur dramatics including work with Croydon Operatic and Dramatic Association (CODA), an interest which was passed on to Harman. His mother was also involved in the productions, but she died when Harman was 18.\n\nBy the age of 8 he already had a manager and in 1984 he made his first major television appearance in the BBC1 drama series \"Tenko\" which was followed by appearances in \"Alas Smith and Jones\" (1986) and \"The Honey Siege\" (1987). He then turned his hand to larger theatre roles, appearing in productions such as \"Privates on Parade\", \"Much Ado About Nothing\" and \"Summer Holiday\". He trained at Arts Educational Schools in London and was in the original cast of world hit \"Mamma Mia!\". He also performed in musicals on cruise ships for six and a half months, but told Paul O'Grady that he hated the experience.\n\nHaving only worked on the stage and in musical theatre since leaving private school, Harman determined to expand into television and pursued TV roles. He scored minor parts in episodes of \"Red Cap\", \"Doctors\" and \"Coupling\", but had to support himself by taking jobs at Pizza Hut and as a driver for supermarket chain Sainsbury's a fate not uncommon for many actors.\n\nIn 2003 he won the high-profile role of Dennis Rickman in the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\". \n\nHis character's first notable bustup was with local hard man Phil Mitchell whom he punched in his very first episode making him the first of his many enemies. A few months later, Dennis was beaten up by some thugs who had been sent around by Phil. Then his long-lost father \"Dirty\" Den Watts (played by Leslie Grantham) famously returned after being presumed dead for over 14 years and together with Dennis framed Phil for armed robbery causing Phil to flee Walford on the run from police.\n\nHarman left \"EastEnders\" on 5 November 2005, and his final episode was aired on 30 December 2005 in which Dennis was stabbed to death in the street by one of Johnny Allen's (Billy Murray) henchman (it was later discovered to be Danny Moon, played by Jake Maskall).\n\nDuring his time on \"EastEnders\" Harman won multiple awards such as the following:\n\n\nAfter leaving \"EastEnders\" in December 2005, he appeared as Sky Masterson in \"Guys and Dolls\" at the Piccadilly Theatre in the West End alongside Jenna Russell and Nigel Lindsay. He opened alongside Sarah Lancashire who left the production with illness on 4 January 2006. He left the show in March 2006. In April 2006, he played Kerry Max Cooke in \"The Exonerated\" at Riverside Studio Theatre in Hammersmith, London.\n\nIn October 2006, Harman appeared in the Harold Pinter play \"The Caretaker\" at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, starring alongside David Bradley and Con O'Neill. The production toured from February to April 2007. The tour venues were the Theatre Royal, Brighton, Richmond Theatre and the Tricycle Theatre in Kilburn.\n\nHarman resumed the role of Sky Masterson again, joining the \"Guys and Dolls\" tour at the Alexandra Theatre, Birmingham in December 2006, and the Mayflower Theatre, Southampton in May 2007.\n\nFrom May to July 2008 he appeared in \"The Common Pursuit\" at the Menier Chocolate Factory for a limited run.\n\nFrom January to May 2009 he appeared in the play \"Three Days of Rain\" at the Apollo Theatre, London with actors Lyndsey Marshal and James McAvoy.\n\nIn November and December 2009 he appeared in \"Public Property\" by Sam Peter Jackson at the Trafalgar Studios.\n\nIn May and June 2010, Harman appeared in the stage production of \"True West\" at the Crucible Theatre, Sheffield.\n\nFrom May 2011 to February 2012 he played Lord Farquaad in the West End production of \"Shrek the Musical\", at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. For his performance, he won the Olivier Award for Best Supporting Performance in a Musical and Theatregoers' Choice Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Musical.\n\nIn July 2012 he played Sir Charles Surface in \"The School for Scandal\" at the Theatre Royal, Bath.\n\nFrom September 2012 to January 2013 he starred alongside Rob Brydon and Ashley Jensen in Alan Ayckbourn's \"A Chorus of Disapproval\" at the Harold Pinter Theatre in the West End.\n\nIn August 2013, it was announced Harman would play the role of Simon Cowell in the West End musical \"I Can't Sing! The X Factor Musical\", which opened in February 2014 at the London Palladium. Despite positive reviews, the musical closed in May.\n\nAlso in 2014, Harman was revealed as the director for the UK tour of \"Shrek The Musical\", which opened in July in Leeds and finished in February 2016 in Salford. The tour resumed in Edinburgh in December 2017.\n\nIn October 2016 he directed a double-bill \"Lunch\" and \"The Bow of Ulysses\" by Steven Berkoff at the Trafalgar Studios.\n\nFrom January to February 2017, Harman starred in the French comedy \"What's In A Name?\" at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre alongside Sarah Hadland, Jamie Glover, Olivia Poulet and Raymond Coulthard.\n\nHarman directed the London premiere of the musical \"Big Fish\", starring Kelsey Grammer, which played at The Other Palace in November and December 2017.\n\nFrom February to April 2019, Harman toured the UK in David Mamet’s play \"Glengarry Glen Ross\" opposite Mark Benton.\n\nHarman's success on television and stage has facilitated a move into other television and film roles. In 2006 he played the leading role in one-off drama thriller \"The Outsiders\", co-starring actors Colin Salmon and Brian Cox. Later that year he made a brief appearance in the Hollywood film \"Blood Diamond\".\n\nIn 2007 and 2008 he made guest appearances in the Channel 4 series: \"Comedy Showcase\" and \"City of Vice\" as well as an episode of the BBC drama series \"Lark Rise to Candleford\". He also played his first major film role (as singer Jess Conrad) in \"Telstar\".\n\nIn 2009 he appeared in the series \"Plus One\" and took over from Max Beesley as the new male lead in the BBC drama \"Hotel Babylon\" playing new owner Sam Franklin. He also appeared as a \"Dealer\" in the Channel 4 online educational game 'The Curfew'.\n\nIn 2010 he appeared in an episode of \"Agatha Christie's Marple\".\n\nIn 2013 he appeared in the fourth series of \"Downton Abbey\", playing the role of a visiting valet named Mr Green. From 2013 until the series ended in 2017, he played Bradley Dawson in \"Mount Pleasant\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1924118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924118", "title": "Phoenix Stakes", "text": "Phoenix Stakes\n\nThe Phoenix Stakes is a Group 1 flat horse race in Ireland open to two-year-old thoroughbred colts and fillies. It is run at the Curragh over a distance of 6 furlongs (1,207 metres), and it is scheduled to take place each year in August.\n\nThe event was established in 1902, and it was originally held at Phoenix Park. It used to be called the Phoenix Plate, and was informally known as \"the 1500\". It was initially contested over 5 furlongs.\n\nThe race was renamed the Phoenix Stakes in 1956. It was given Group 2 status in 1971, and promoted to Group 1 level in 1979.\n\nThe Phoenix Stakes was staged at Leopardstown in 1982. It returned to Phoenix Park with a new distance of 6 furlongs in 1983.\n\nPhoenix Park Racecourse closed in 1990, and the event switched to Leopardstown in 1991. It moved to the Curragh in 2002.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924122", "title": "Crystal Waters", "text": "Crystal Waters\n\nCrystal Waters (born 1961/62) is an American house and dance music singer and songwriter, best known for her 1990s dance hits \"Gypsy Woman\", \"100% Pure Love\" and 2007's \"Destination Calabria\" with Alex Gaudino. All three of her studio albums produced a Top 40 hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. In December 2016, \"Billboard magazine\" ranked her as one of the most successful dance artists of all-time. Her accolades include six ASCAP Songwriter awards, three American Music Award nominations, an MTV Video Music Award nod, four \"Billboard\" Music Awards and twelve #1 \"Billboard\" Dance Chart hits. Her hit song \"Gypsy Woman\" was sampled in musician Trey Songz's 2017 song \"1x1\" from his album \"Tremaine the Album\", which she co-wrote.\n\nBorn in Deptford, New Jersey, Waters is the daughter of Betty and Junior Waters, a famed jazz musician; her great aunt, Ethel Waters, was one of the first black American vocalists to appear in mainstream Hollywood musicals. Her family moved to New Jersey for a while but they again moved to Washington, D.C.. At age eleven she began writing poetry and took her writing seriously enough to be inducted into the Poetry Society of America when she was 14, the youngest person ever to receive that honor.\n\nShe studied business and computer science at Howard University, but her creative work as a musician dropped off as she found less time for it. After earning her college degree in 1989, Waters secured a job as a computer technician with the Washington, D.C. parole board, making a living that would support her two daughters. One of her daughters is singer-songwriter Ella Nicole.\n\nWaters' first job in the music world was as a backup singer at a local recording studio. She realized she wanted the creative control of writing her own music. Meeting the Basement Boys at a DC conference, they agreed to collaborate. Waters' self-described style was jazz and the Basement Boys was house. The first two songs she wrote for the 'Boys were \"Makin' Happy\" and Gypsy Woman.\n\nWaters signed a writing contract with Mercury Records in 1989.\n\nHer single \"Makin' Happy\", with contributions by remixer Steve \"Silk\" Hurley, shot quickly to #1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs. \n\nWith her 1994 follow-up album \"Storyteller',' Waters made a mainstream comeback with her hit single \"100% Pure Love\", which hit number 11 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, #1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs and became one of the longest-charting singles on the Hot 100 at 45 weeks (\"Gypsy Woman\" had remained on the chart for 16 weeks). Along with the single, her second album \"Storyteller,\" sold over 1,000,000 copies in the United States. Feminist scholar and social activist bell hooks described Waters as “fierce and politically on the job” because of the singer's socially-conscious lyrics.\n\nIn 1996, Waters participated in the AIDS benefit album \"Red Hot + Rio\", which was produced by the Red Hot Organization, performing the song \"The Boy from Ipanema\".\n\nIn 2007, the mega European hit \"Destination Calabria\" by Alex Gaudino. featuring vocals by Crystal Waters, went to #1 on the European Pop Chart in over 30 countries. The track is a mashup, taking the instrumental from Rune's \"Calabria\" and the vocals from Alex Gaudino's and Crystal Waters' \"Destination Unknown\", both originally released in 2003. It was produced with the help of Maurizio Nari and Ronnie Milani (Nari & Milani), matching the saxophone hook/riff from \"Calabria\" to Crystal Waters' voice. \"Destination Calabria\" was released as a 12-inch single by the Italian label Rise Records, and as a CD single on March 19, 2007 by British label Data Records. It originally charted in Australia in February 2004, peaking at #98 under the title \"Destination Unknown\" before being re-released as \"Destination Calabria\" and reaching #2 in 2007.\n\nIn 2012, \"Le Bump\" with Yolanda Be Cool gave Waters another #1 on the Beatport House Chart.\n\nWith DJ Chris Cox in 2013, the #1 Billboard Dance Club Songs hit \"Mama Hey\" was listed as one of \"Billboard\"'s \"Top 50 Dance Songs of 2013\".\n\nIn November 2015, Waters released \"Synergy\", and in October 2016 she released \"Believe\". Both songs quickly rose to the #1 spot on the Billboard Dance Club Songs.\n\nHer 2017 single \"Testify\" with Hifi Sean was released on Defected Records and went straight to the A-List on BBC Radio and garnered another #1 spot on the \"Billboard\" Dance Club Songs.\n\nHer third collaboration with Sted-E & Hybrid Heights, titled \"I Am House\", reached #1 in the club charts in Spring 2018, giving Waters a total of twelve #1 singles in the US Billboard Dance Club Songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924130", "title": "Daegu Metro Line 1", "text": "Daegu Metro Line 1\n\nDaegu Metro Line 1 was, until mid-2005, the only rapid transit line in the South Korean city of Daegu. It is operated by the Daegu Metropolitan Transit Corporation. Line color is ●carmine.\n\nThe line first began running from Jincheon to Jungangno on November 26, 1997. The section from Jungnangno to Ansim was opened shortly thereafter, on May 2, 1998. The west end of the line was extended from Jincheon to Daegok, reaching its current length on May 10, 2002. However, service on the entire line was stopped for several months in 2003 following the Daegu subway fire.\n\nLine 1's 28.4 kilometer course lies entirely within the metropolitan city of Daegu, although proposals have been made to extend it into the northern end of Gyeongsan city. , trains run 312 times per day during the week, and 288 times on weekends and holidays. It takes 50 minutes and 30 seconds to go from one end to the other. A southwestern extension was opened on September 8, 2016.\n\nThe following is the list of stations from west to east. All train doors open on the right when arriving at the station (except Ansim Station)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924132", "title": "Greek Academy", "text": "Greek Academy\n\nGreek Academy may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1924137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924137", "title": "Puná Island", "text": "Puná Island\n\nPuná Island is an island off the coast of southern Ecuador at approximately 80 degrees west longitude and 3 degrees south latitude. It is located at the head of the Gulf of Guayaquil, south of the mouth of the Guayas River and the city of Guayaquil, Ecuador's largest city and chief port. It is bordered by Jambelí Channel on the east and Morro Channel on the west, both of which connect the open Gulf of Guayaquil to the narrow mouth of the Guayas River. The total area of Puná Island is . The island is a parish of Guayaquil Canton in Guayas Province.\n\nThe Battle of Puná, fought on the island in April 1531, was an engagement of Francisco Pizarro's during the Spanish conquest of Peru. It was fought by the Spanish conquistadores allied with the natives of Tumbez, against their rivals, the people of Puná.\n\nThe missionary first bishop of Cuzco, Vincent de Valverde, was put to death and eaten there by the islanders on 31 October 1541.\n\nHakluyt's 'Voyages' relate that Cavendish raided the island in 1587 during his circumnavigation but was repulsed with loss by local forces including Indians who were by then loyal to the Spanish administration.\n\nPuná Island is where rugby union in Ecuador was first played, in the 1930s, by English merchants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924148", "title": "Doug Sampson", "text": "Doug Sampson\n\nDouglas William Sampson (born 30 June 1957) is a British musician. He was the drummer for Iron Maiden from 1978 to 1979.\n\nPrior to joining Iron Maiden, Sampson was a member of one of Steve Harris' previous groups, Smiler, along with Dennis Willcock, Mick Clee (born 1949) and Tony Clee (b. 1949) in 1975, after which he was asked to join Iron Maiden at their inception in the same year. He declined to join at the time as he was \"a bit fed up with the whole rock band thing\" because he was \"completely skint,\" but accepted a further invitation from Steve Harris at Dennis Willcock's last gig to replace Barry Purkis in 1978 after he had taken up drumming again in a Southern Rock group called Janski.\n\nFollowing a year of rehearsing the band began playing small pubs with the band, during which they gained a large following, a highlight being a gig at London's famous Marque club. Doug participated in the recording of Iron Maiden's demo, later released as \"The Soundhouse Tapes\", on 31 December 1978, Prowler and other tracks from it appeared in the charts of Neal Kay's Heavy Metal Soundhouse club, published weekly in \"Sounds\". Iron Maiden eventually signed to EMI in 1979, following up by recording further demos, one song from these sessions (\"Burning Ambition\") was included on the B-Side of \"Running Free\".\n\nDoug also played on Iron Maidens BBC Archives released on 4 November 2002 as part of the Eddie's Archive box set. It is a collection of songs from three live shows and one live radio broadcast, recorded by the BBC between 1979 and 1988. Doug can be found on the BBC Radio 1 Friday Rock Show, 14 November 1979 disc.\n\nSampson eventually left the band on 22 December 1979, following health issues brought about by the band's extensive touring schedule driving up and down the country in vans at night in a hectic schedule freezing half to death in the van and a lack of sleep contributing to fatigue and illness. Although he calls leaving Maiden \"a blow,\" he states that \"After leaving Iron Maiden he had a jam with Chop Pitman and Tony Hatton from EL34 and they formed a new band Airforce when joined by Sam 'Tomcat' Sampson Dougs brother who was the vocalist from local legends Sams Apple Pie. Airforce played heavily in the london circuit including nights including the Ruskin Arms and the Marque supporting Shy.\"\n\nIn 2015,Doug was invited to be a guest at The Legacy Projects charity fund raising gig supported ex many members of Iron Maiden. Doug brought down his Smiler drum kit that he also used in Iron Maiden and was swamped for autographs and photos, Sampson's old band, Airforce performed a set and had also contributed a track (\"War Games\") to the \"Origins of Iron\" compilation, which featured nine tracks by former members of Iron Maiden. After seeing the response from fans, in 2016, Sampson rejoined Airforce after a 20-year absence. He recorded three new tracks with the band and released their career-retrospective album, \"Judgement Day\" on 15 July 2016 via, WatchOut Records.\n\nDoug finally returned to the stage, in April 2017. At just his second show back with Airforce, the band headlined the inaugural \"Burr Fest\" event, at The Lounge, in London. The event raised money for the MS Action Fund, in memory of Doug's Maiden successor, Clive Burr.\n\nAirforce have recorded a new EP \"The Black Box Recordings: Volume 1\", which was released on 21 July 2017. The EP was the first material to feature the reunited trio of Chop Pitman, Tony Hatton, and Doug Sampson, with new vocalist Dilian Arnaudov.\n\nThe band then recorded \"The Black Box Recordings: Volume 2\", a Special Soundhouse Edition of the EP featuring a rough mix and featuring Doug's old Iron Maiden bandmate as Paul Dianno special guest vocalist on the track Sniper got its first public airing at the Born Again Heavy Metal Sound House event on 22 December in London.\n\nDoug and Airforce will be recording an as yet untitled album in 2018 and can be found performing home and abroad in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924150", "title": "Slugcatcher", "text": "Slugcatcher\n\nSlug Catcher is the name of a unit in the gas refinery or petroleum industry in which slugs at the outlet of pipelines are collected or caught. A slug is a large quantity of gas or liquid that exits in the pipeline.\n\nPipelines that transport both gas and liquids together, known as two-phase flow, can operate in a flow regime known as slugging flow or slug flow. Under the influence of gravity, liquids will tend to settle on the bottom of the pipeline, while the gases occupy the top section of the pipeline. Under certain operating conditions gas and liquid are not evenly distributed throughout the pipeline, but travel as large plugs with mostly liquids or mostly gases through the pipeline. These large plugs are called slugs.\n\nSlugs exiting the pipeline can overload the gas/liquid handling capacity of the plant at the pipeline outlet, as they are often produced at a much larger rate than the equipment is designed for.\n\nSlugs can be generated by different mechanisms in a pipeline:\n\n\nSlugs formed by terrain slugging, hydrodynamic slugging or riser-based slugging are periodical in nature. Whether a slug is able to reach the outlet of the pipeline depends on the rate at which liquids are added to the slug at the front (i.e. in the direction of flow) and the rate at which liquids leave the slug at the back. Some slugs will grow as they travel the pipeline, while others are damped and disappear before reaching the outlet of the pipeline.\n\nA slug catcher is a vessel with sufficient buffer volume to store the largest slugs expected from the upstream system. The slug catcher is located between the outlet of the pipeline and the processing equipment. The buffered liquids can be drained to the processing equipment at a much slower rate to prevent overloading the system. As slugs are a periodical phenomenon, the slug catcher should be emptied before the next slug arrives\n\nSlug catchers can be used continuously or on-demand. A slug catcher permanently connected to the pipeline will buffer all production, including the slugs, before it is sent to the gas and liquid handling facilities. This is used for difficult to predict slugging behaviour found in terrain slugging, hydrodynamic slugging or riser-based slugging. Alternatively, the slug catcher can be bypassed in normal operation and be brought online when a slug is expected, usually during pigging operations. An advantage of this set-up is that inspection and maintenance on the slug catcher can be done without interrupting the normal operation.\n\nSlug catchers are designed in different forms,\n\nA basic slug catcher design contains the buffer volume for gas and liquid. A control system is used for controlled outflow of gas and liquid to the downstream processing facilities. The inlet section is designed to promote the separation of gas and liquids.\n\nhttp://www.glossary.oilfield.slb.com/en/Terms/s/slug_flow.aspx\n"}
{"id": "1924153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924153", "title": "William Harmon", "text": "William Harmon\n\nWilliam Harmon (born 1938) is James Gordon Hanes Professor Emeritus in the Humanities at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, author of five books of poetry and editor of \"A Handbook to Literature\". His most recent poetry has appeared in \"Blink\" and \"Light\".\n\nWilliam Harmon was born in Concord, North Carolina, a small cotton-mill town northeast of Charlotte. In 1954, at the age of sixteen, he entered the University of Chicago. He graduated in 1958. He was an officer on active duty with the United States Navy between 1960 and 1967, the last year of which was in Vietnam. As an adviser to the South Vietnamese Navy, he wrote its \"Standard Ship's Organization Manual\". He continued as a Reserve officer until 1980, reaching the rank of lieutenant commander. After returning to the United States, he pursued post-graduate work (focused predominantly on trans-Atlantic modernist poetry) at the University of Chicago, where he earned his master's degree in 1968; the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he earned an additional master's the same year; and the University of Cincinnati, where he earned his doctorate in 1970. His dissertation on Ezra Pound was published by the University of North Carolina Press in 1977. In 1970 he was hired by UNC Chapel Hill, where he remained on the faculty until 2008, when he retired. His first book of poetry, \"Treasury Holiday\", was published in 1970 by Wesleyan University Press and became the Lamont Poetry Selection of the year. His most recent collection of poetry, \"Mutatis Mutandis: 27 Invoices\", won the Poetry Society of America's William Carlos Williams Award in 1985.\n\nHarmon has been donating an extensive set of correspondences (over 10,000 items, deemed the William Harmon Papers) to the Southern Historical Collection at Wilson Library (located in Chapel Hill, North Carolina). The letters document Harmon's discussions with a range of other poets including A.R. Ammons, John Ashbery, Robert Bly, Robert Creeley, John Hollander, Richard Wilbur, and Robert Penn Warren.\n\nPoetry\n\nEdited Reference Works\n\nLiterary Criticism\n\n"}
{"id": "1924161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924161", "title": "Tredegar House", "text": "Tredegar House\n\nTredegar House (Welsh: \"Tŷ Tredegar\") is a 17th-century Charles II-era country house mansion in Coedkernew, at the western edge of the city of Newport, Wales. For over five hundred years it was home to the Morgan family, later Lords Tredegar; one of the most powerful and influential families in the area. Described as \"The grandest and most exuberant country house\" in Monmouthshire and one of the \"outstanding houses of the Restoration period in the whole of Britain\", the mansion stands in a reduced landscaped garden of (0.14 of a square mile) forming the non-residential part of Tredegar Park. The property became a Grade I listed building on 3 March 1952 and has been under the care of the National Trust since March 2012.\n\nThe earliest surviving part of the building dates back to the late 15th century. The house was originally built of stone and had sufficient status to host Charles I. Between 1664 and 1672, however, William Morgan decided to rebuild the house on a larger scale from red brick, at that time a rare building material in Wales. The architectural historian Peter Smith, writing in his work \"Houses of the Welsh Countryside\", called Tredegar, \"the most splendid brick house of the seventeenth century in Wales\". In his 1882 publication, local historian Octavius Morgan provides a plan of an intricate garden maze which was in place prior to the 1660s improvements and which probably dated from the time of Queen Elizabeth I.\n\nTredegar's name came from Tredegar Fawr, the name of the mansion or seat of the old Morgans, who were descended from Cadifor the Great the son of Collwyn; and the owners of the land upon which Tredegar stands. The earliest record of someone with the name Morgan living at Tredegar is 1402: a Llewellyn Ap Morgan. Tredegar House, set in 90 acres which remains landscaped for ornamental purposes, with less agriculture than in previous centuries, is the finest Restoration house in Wales and for over five hundred years the estate (including Ruperra Castle) was home to the Morgan family, later Lords Tredegar; one of the most powerful and influential families in the area.\n\nJohn Morgan was created a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre (possibly c.1448). Later, when Henry Tudor was crowned King Henry VII it was of great benefit to the Morgans of Tredegar who were great supporters of Henry. Sir John received reward for his early support, and on 7 November 1485 he was appointed by the new king to the office of ‘Sheriff of Wentloog and Newport’ and made ‘Steward’ of the Machen Commote. His elevation to officer of the Tudor crown placed Sir John Morgan's influence and power at a new height. Around 1490, he commissioned the building of a new house at Tredegar. A wing of Sir John's stone manor house still exists. It is now the oldest part of the present day Tredegar House.\n\nA cadet branch of the ‘Tredegar Morgans’, probably nephews of Sir Thomas Morgan, included three brothers, Thomas, Robert and Edward. Thomas became Major-General Sir Thomas Morgan, 1st Baronet (1604–79), served in the Commonwealth forces during the English Civil War 1642-9, was made Governor of Gloucester in 1645, fought in Flanders, was wounded and in 1661 retired to his estate at Kinnersley, Herefordshire. Recalled in 1665 to become Governor of Jersey, he died at St Helier in April 1679. Married on 10 September 1632, he had nine sons, of whom the eldest, Sir John Morgan followed in his father's profession. Robert Morgan, (born circa 1615) became a farmer in Llanrumney, (Cardiff), not to be confused with Rhymney about 3 miles, from Tredegar, and was father of Henry Morgan (born in Llanrumney Hall, Cardiff, who would have a successful career in the Caribbean as a privateer, and pirate). Edward Morgan became Colonel Edward Morgan (born circa 1616 – Colonel after 1665), a Royalist during English Civil War 1642–49 and Captain General of the Kings forces in South Wales. After the King's arrest and execution, he fled to the continent and married Anna Petronilla the daughter of Baron von Pöllnitz from Westphalia (Governor of Lippstadt, east of Dortmund in Germany). They had six children, two sons and four daughters (including Anna Petronilla and Johanna). He was appointed Lieutenant Governor of Jamaica 1664–65.\n\nDuring the civil war after the Battle of Naseby, King Charles I visited Tredegar House in 1645. In 1661 William Morgan (d.1680) rebuilt the house on a very grand scale, with the help of the huge dowry of his wife, Blanche Morgan. Their fortunes continued to flourish down the generations, tremendously enhanced by the foresight and business enterprises of Sir Charles Gould throughout the 18th century. Following his father's financial successes, his son further expanded several commercial and industrial projects, and virtually established Newport as an important trade centre. Whilst consolidating their influence on the political and economic issues of the country, they secured a baronetcy in 1792, and a Barony in 1859.\n\nIn 1854, Godfrey Morgan fought in, and survived, the Charge of the Light Brigade at Balaclava. Godfrey was 22 and Captain in the 17th Lancers. His steed, Sir Briggs, also survived and lived at Tredegar House until the horse's death at the age of 28. The horse was buried with full military honours in the Cedar Garden at Tredegar House. The monument still stands there today. In 1905 Godfrey was created the first Viscount Tredegar. He never married and on his death the estate passed to his nephew Courtenay Morgan. In 1920, the Tredegar Park Polo Club was founded at Tredegar House.\n\nLater, extravagance, eccentricities, and weighty death duties seriously depleted the family's financial assets throughout the next three generations. John Morgan, 6th Baron Tredegar died childless in 1962 aged 54. His death signalled the end of the Morgans of Tredegar. In 1951, Tredegar House was stripped, the remaining contents were auctioned, and the estate was sold.\n\nFor over five hundred years it was home to one of the greatest of Welsh families, the Morgans (the same family as Captain Morgan) – later the Lords Tredegar – until they left in 1951.\n\nAfter 1951 the house was bought by the Catholic Church as a convent school with boarders, later St. Joseph's Roman Catholic School. It was bought by the Newport Corporation Council in 1974, giving rise to its then status as \"\"the grandest council house in Britain\"\".\n\nIn December 2011 the National Trust signed an agreement with Newport City Council to take on the management of the building, as well as the 90 acres of gardens and parkland, on a 50-year lease from 2012. The Trust said that Tredegar House was of \"great importance\" as many similar properties had been lost in the past 100 years. The National Trust provide free-flow access to the house, but have closed parts of the upstairs to the public.\n\nThe Welsh name of the house is nowadays \"Tŷ Tredegar\", but this is somewhat unauthentic and is obviously a translation of \"Tredegar House\". The name is merely \"Tredegar\" historically, or to cite an earlier form (1550) \"Tredegyr\" (the form Tredegar shows the influence of the local Gwentian dialect of Welsh). A form more in keeping with Welsh naming practice, instead of tŷ, would be Plas Tredegar or Plas Tredegyr but it does not seem that this was ever in use either. \n\nTredegyr is \"farmstead of Tegyr\" (tre, a form of tref = farmstead) + soft mutation (t > d) + Tegyr. A Brythonic form *Tecorix (fair king) might be supposed, as such a form would have resulted in Welsh \"Tegyr\" following normal processes in the development of Welsh from Brythonic. There is a similar name in Denbighshire – Botegyr, meaning \"Tegyr’s dwelling\", < Bod Degyr < (bod = dwelling) + (soft mutation t > d) + (Tegyr). \n\nThe House has been used as a filming location on several occasions. In 2014 an episode of the \"Antiques Roadshow\" was filmed at the property and house's iconic red brick exterior now features in the programme's opening sequence.\n\nThe television series \"Being Human\", \"Da Vinci's Demons\" and \"The Hairy Bikers\" have all used the house as a location. Since the programme was revived in 2005, many episodes of \"Doctor Who\" have used Tredegar House for location filming, including the 2008 Christmas special \"The Next Doctor\" and the 2009/2010 Christmas/New Year special \"The End of Time\".\n\nThe House plays host to many events throughout the year, including a Cadbury's Easter Egg Hunt, Pirate's Day, August Bank Holiday 1930s Garden Party, Halloween and Christmas, which is themed around Charles Dickens's A Christmas Carol. There are also daily talks, activities and special tours for visitors.\nAn annual Folk Festival is held in May \n\nThe House is approved for marriages and civil ceremonies and the Morgan Room may be hired for private functions.\n\nFor many years an annual vintage car rally was held in the grounds in order to raise funds for Leukaemia Research. The first rally was held in October 1980 and raised £635. The 34th and final rally was held in September 2014 and raised £80,000, bringing the total amount raised since 1980 to £868,000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924162", "title": "Princess Deokhye", "text": "Princess Deokhye\n\nPrincess Deokhye of Korea (25 May 191221 April 1989) was the last princess of the Korean Empire.\n\nShe was born on 25 May 1912 at Changdeok Palace in Seoul. She was the youngest daughter of Emperor Gojong and his concubine, then known as Yang Gui-in. Then, Emperor Gojong bestowed a royal title, Boknyeong, to Yang when she gave birth to Princess Deokhye. Princess Deokhye was not formally recognized as a princess by Japan until 1917, because she was not a daughter of the queen. In 1917, her name was formally entered into the Imperial Family's registry. Her father, Emperor Gojong, loved her greatly and established the Deoksu Palace (덕수궁) Kindergarten for her in Junmyungdang (준명당), Hamnyeong hall. Girls her age from noble families attended the kindergarten. Princess Deokhye is called Deokhye Ongju in Korea, not Gongju. Gongju refers to the daughters of the queen, and Ongju refers to the daughters of concubines.\n\nShe was born without a name but was given the name of Princess Seunghee on 25 May 1912, a daughter of Yang Gui-in (later Lady Boknyeong) and Emperor Gojong when he was 60 years old. Upon having no given name, she was ignored and was treated like she did not exist. She was then nicknamed \"BoknyeongDang\". In 1917, Emperor Gojong persuaded Terauchi Masatake, the then-ruling Governor General of Korea to enter her name into the registry of the imperial family, offering her legitimacy and granting her the title of princess. In 1919, Emperor Gojong planned the secret engagement between Princess Deokhye and Kim Jang-han, a nephew of Kim Hwangjin, a court chamberlain. Emperor Gojong had sought to protect his daughter from Japan through this engagement, but the engagement failed due to Japan's intervention. After the failed engagement, Kim Hwangjin was not permitted to enter Deoksu Palace and Emperor Gojong died suddenly on 21 January 1919. In 1921, Princess Deokhye went to Hinodae elementary school in Seoul.\n\nIn 1925, she was taken to Japan under the pretense of continuing her studies. Like her brothers, she attended the Gakushuin. She was described as silent, isolated and weak. Upon the news of her mother's death in 1929, she was finally given permission to visit Korea temporarily to attend her mother's funeral in 1930. However, she was not allowed to wear the proper clothing. In the Spring of 1930, upon the onset of psychological condition (manifested by sleepwalking), she moved to King Lee's Palace, her brother Crown Prince Eun's house in Tokyo. During this period, she often forgot to eat and drink. Her physician diagnosed her illness as precocious dementia, but by the following year, her condition seemed to have improved. This may be attributed to her upbringing.\n\nIn May 1931, after \"matchmaking\" by Empress Teimei, the consort of Emperor Taishō of Japan, she married Count Sō Takeyuki (武志; 1908-1985), a Japanese aristocrat. The marriage had in fact been decided in 1930; her brother had protested it, and it had been postponed because of her condition, but when she recovered, she was immediately given instructions that the marriage was to take place. She gave birth to a daughter, Masae (), or Jeonghye () in Korea, on 14 August 1932. In 1933, Deokhye was again afflicted with mental illness, and after this, she spent many years in various mental health clinics.\n\nWith the defeat of Japan in World War II, Korea once again became independent and her husband lost his nobility title, as the peerage was abolished. The arranged marriage no longer made sense, and they became increasingly detached from one another, until they finally divorced in 1953. Takeyuki So is known to have remarried in 1955 to Japanese Yoshie Katsumura. Having suffered an unhappy marriage, Deokhye's grief was compounded by the loss of her only daughter who disappeared in 1956, reportedly committing suicide due to the stress of her parents' divorce. As a result, Deokhye's condition deteriorated at a slow yet considerable pace.\n\nShe returned to Korea at the invitation of the South Korean government on 26 January 1962, after 37 years. At first, the Korean government refused to allow the return of the last royal bloodline, because president Lee Seung Man wanted to avoid political chaos. However, reporter Kim Eul Han found the princess and persuaded the Korean government to allow her return. She cried while approaching her motherland, and despite her mental state, accurately remembered the court manners. She lived in Nakseon Hall, Changdeok Palace, with Crown Prince and Princess Eun, their son Prince Gu, his wife Julia Mullock, and Mrs Byeon Bokdong, her lady-in-waiting. She died on 21 April 1989 at Sugang Hall, Changdeok Palace, and was buried at Hongryureung in Namyangju, near Seoul.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924163", "title": "Yousef Azizi (Bani-Torof)", "text": "Yousef Azizi (Bani-Torof)\n\nYousef Azizi (Bani-Torof) (born April 21, 1951 in Susangerd, Iran) is an Iranian Arab journalist and Arab rights activist living in exile in London, United Kingdom. Azizi is a former member of the \"Association of Iran's Writers\" and has translated many works from Arabic to Persian. He has adopted a second surname, Bani-Torof, to indicate his roots from the \"Bani Torof\" (in Arabic meaning \"Children of Torof\") Arab tribe.\n\nOn April 25, 2005, he was arrested at his home by security forces in connection with the Arab youth unrest in Khuzestan earlier that month and held at Evin Prison with other Iranian journalists and dissidents. He was released on June 28, 2005.\n\nIn August 2008 he was sentenced to five years in prison. While appealing the decision, he left Iran and gained political asylum in United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924166", "title": "Arnold McCuller", "text": "Arnold McCuller\n\nArnold Rufus McCuller is an American vocalist, songwriter, and record producer, born and raised in Cleveland, Ohio. He is active as a solo artist and session musician, but is perhaps best known for his work as a touring back-up singer with artists such as James Taylor, Phil Collins, Beck, Bonnie Raitt, and Todd Rundgren. He has toured for thirty years with Taylor and is an audience favorite for his featured vocal parts on the songs \"Shower the People\", \"I Will Follow\", and \"Is That the Way You Look\". He has also toured extensively with Collins and is one of the main lead vocalists on the live version of \"Easy Lover\". In 2010 McCuller joined the Troubadour Reunion Tour supporting James Taylor and Carole King.\nMcCuller has had numerous acting parts in films, particularly in movies centered on music, such as \"American Hot Wax\" (1978) and \"The Hollywood Knights\" (1980). He appeared in the film \"The Sum of All Fears\" singing \"The Star-Spangled Banner\". Although he did not appear onscreen in \"Duets\", his vocals were blended with those of actor Andre Braugher to make a composite singing voice for the character \"Reggie Kane\"; in the film, Reggie Kane sang with Paul Giamatti on \"Try a Little Tenderness\" and performed an a cappella version of \"Free Bird\".\n\nMcCuller also performed the song \"Nowhere to Run\" for the 1979 film \"The Warriors\", which appears on the film's soundtrack (A&M Records); and was one of the four singers in the \"guitar duel sequence\" in the 1986 film \"Crossroads\", with Ry Cooder.\n\n\nAnd Many years of touring since the late '70s with the exception of 1990 (Phillip Ballou filled in), 1994 (Dorian Holley filled in), 2012 (Jim Gilstrap filled in with the exception of solo on Shower the People), and some of 2019 (Dorian Holley filled in at first & then both performed at Las Vegas & Tanglewood)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924171", "title": "Gaston Maspero", "text": "Gaston Maspero\n\nSir Gaston Camille Charles Maspero (23 June 1846 – 30 June 1916) was a French Egyptologist known for popularizing the term \"Sea Peoples\" in an 1881 paper.\n\nMaspero's son, Henri Maspero, became a notable sinologist and scholar of East Asia.\n\nGaston Maspero was born in Paris in 1846 to parents of Italian origin. While at school he showed a special taste for history, and by the age of fourteen he was already interested in hieroglyphic writing. It was not until his second year at the \"École normale\" in 1867 that Maspero met fellow Egyptologist Auguste Mariette, who was in Paris as commissioner for the Egyptian section of the \"Exposition universelle\". Mariette gave him two newly discovered hieroglyphic texts of considerable difficulty to study, and the young self-taught scholar produced translations of them in less than a fortnight, a great feat in those days when Egyptology was still almost in its infancy. The publication of these texts in the same year established his academic reputation.\n\nA short time was spent in assisting a gentleman in Peru who was seeking to prove an Aryan affinity for the dialects spoken by the Quechua of that country to publish his research, but in 1868 Maspero was back in France at more profitable work. In 1869 he became a teacher (\"répétiteur\") of Egyptian language and archeology at the \"École pratique des hautes études\", and in 1874 he was appointed to the chair of Champollion at the \"Collège de France\", succeeding Emmanuel de Rougé.\nIn November 1880 Professor Maspero went to Egypt as head of an archeological mission sent there by the French government, which ultimately developed into the well-equipped \"Institut français d'archéologie orientale\". This occurred a few months before the death of Mariette, whom Maspero then succeeded as director-general of excavations and of the antiquities of Egypt.\n\nAware that his reputation was then more as a linguist than an archaeologist, Maspero's first work in the post was to build on Mariette's achievements at Saqqara. He expanded their scope from the early Old Kingdom to the later, with particular interest in tombs with long and complete hieroglyphic inscriptions that could help illustrate the development of the Egyptian language. Selecting five later Old Kingdom tombs, he was successful in that aim, finding over 4,000 lines of hieroglyphics which were then sketched and photographed.\n\nAs an aspect of his attempt to curtail the rampant illegal export of Egyptian antiquities by tourists, collectors and agents for the major European and American museums, Maspero arrested the Abd al-Russul brothers from the notorious treasure-hunting village of Gorna, who confessed under torture to having found the great cache of royal mummies at Deir el-Bahri in July 1881. The cache was moved to Cairo as soon as possible to keep it safe from robbers.\n\nIn 1886, he resumed work begun by Mariette to uncover the Sphinx, removing more than of sand and seeking tombs below it. He also introduced admission charges for Egyptian sites to the increasing number of tourists to pay for their upkeep and maintenance.\n\nIn spite of the brutality towards the Abd al-Russul brothers, Maspero was popular with museum keepers and collectors because he was known to be a \"pragmatic\" director of the Service of Antiquities, one who would allow them to remove from the country what he did not want for the Bulak Museum in Cairo. Maspero did not attempt to halt all collecting, but rather sought to control what went out of the country and to gain the confidence of those who were regular collectors. When Maspero left his position in 1886 and was replaced by a series of other directors who attempted to halt the trade in antiquities, his absence was much lamented.\n\nMaspero resumed his professorial duties in Paris from June 1886 until 1899, when, at 53, he returned to Egypt in his old capacity as director-general of the department of antiquities. On October 3 that year an earthquake at Karnak collapsed 11 columns and left the main hall in ruins. Maspero had already made some repairs and clearances there (continued in his absence by unofficial but authorized explorers of many nationalities) in his previous tenure of office, and now he set up a team of workmen under French Egyptologists and regularly visited to oversee its reconstruction work, opposing some Romantics who wished the ruins left as they were. In 1903 an alabaster pavement was found in the court of the 7th Pylon, and beneath it a shaft leading to a large hoard of almost 17,000 statues, with every part of the dig drawn, recorded and photographed.\n\nOn his arrival in 1899 he found the collections in the Bulak Museum enormously increased, and while working to expand them further he superintended their removal from Gizeh to the new quarters at Qasr El Nil in 1902. The vast catalogue of the collections made rapid progress under Maspero's direction. Twenty-four volumes or sections were already published in 1909. This work and the increasing workload of the Antiquities Service led to an expansion of staff at the museum, including the 17-year-old Howard Carter. It was Maspero who recommended Carter to George Herbert, 5th Earl of Carnarvon in 1907, when the Earl approached him to seek advice for the use of an expert to head his planned archaeological expedition to the Valley of the Kings.\n\nHe also set up a network of local museums throughout Egypt, including a new larger Cairo facility, to encourage the Egyptians to take greater responsibility for the maintenance of their own heritage by increasing public awareness of it. In 1912 he also succeeded where his predecessors had failed in the introduction of a series of anti-looting laws, before retiring in 1914.\n\nMaspero died on 30 June 1916 and was interred in the Cimetière du Montparnasse in Paris.\n\nAmong his best-known publications are the large \"Histoire ancienne des peuples de l'Orient classique\" (3 vols., Paris, 1895–1897, translated into English by Mrs McClure for the S.P.C.K.), displaying the history of the whole of the nearer East from the beginnings to the conquest by Alexander; a smaller \"Histoire des peuples de l'Orient\", 1 vol., of the same scope, which passed through six editions from 1875 to 1904; \"Etudes de mythologie et d'archéologie égyptiennes\" (Paris, 1893, etc.), a collection of reviews and essays originally published in various journals, and especially important as contributions to the study of Ancient Egyptian religion; \"L'Archéologie égyptienne\" (1907), of which several editions have been published in English. He also established the journal \"Recueil de travaux relatifs à la philologie et à l'archéologie égyptiennes et assyriennes\"; the \"Bibliothèque égyptologique\", in which the scattered essays of the French Egyptologists are collected, with biographies, etc.; and the \"Annales du service des antiquités de l'Egypte\", a repository for reports on official excavations, etc.\n\nMaspero also wrote: \"Les inscriptions des pyramides de Saqqarah\" (Paris, 1894); \"Les momies royales de Deir el-Bahari\" (Paris, 1889); \"Les contes populaires de l'Egypte ancienne\" (3rd ed., Paris, 1906); and \"Causeries d'Egypte\" (1907), translated by Elizabeth Lee as \"New Light on Ancient Egypt\" (1908).\n\nGaston Maspero was also the one to find Amenemhat's pyramid, located at Lisht. The pyramid was already eroded at the time of his discovery.\n\nSome public domain e-books by Maspero:\n\nThe radio and TV building in Cairo, Egypt was named after Maspero in honor of his contributions to the study and preservation of ancient Egyptian monuments.\n\nThe Egyptian director Shadi Abdel Salam included Maspero in his feature film, \"The Mummy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924182", "title": "Papadum", "text": "Papadum\n\nA papadum (also called papad) is a thin, crisp, round flatbread from the Indian subcontinent. It is typically based on a seasoned dough usually made from peeled black gram flour (\"urad \"flour), either fried or cooked with dry heat (usually flipping it over an open flame). Flours made from other sources such as lentils, chickpeas, rice, tapioca, certain millets or potato can be used.\n\n\"Papadums\" are typically served as an accompaniment to a meal in Nepal, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka or as an appetizer or snack, sometimes with toppings such as chopped onions, chopped carrots, chutneys or other dips, and condiments. In Pakistan, these are made of rice and often used as a snack or meal accompaniment. In certain parts of India, \"papadums\" which have been dried, but not cooked, are used in curries and vegetable dishes. \"Papadums\" have been a part of the cuisine of the Indian subcontinent for generations and are an intrinsic part of everyday meals.\n\n\"Papadums\" are called \"appalam\" in Tamil Nadu, \"pappadam\" in Kerala, \"appadam\" in Andhra/Telangana, \"happala\" in Karnataka, \"papad\" in Punjab and Gujarat, and \"pampada\" in Odisha . They are mainly made in Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharastra, and Gujarat in the north. In the south, Kerala, Madurai district in Tamil Nadu, Kanchipuram, and Chennai are major manufacturers.\n\n\"Papadum\" is derived from the Sanskrit word \"parpaṭa\" (पर्पट), meaning a flattened disc.\n\n\"Papadum\" recipes vary from region to region and from family to family. They are typically made from flour or paste derived from either lentils, chickpeas, black gram, rice, or potato.\n\nSalt and peanut oil are added to make a dough, which can be flavored with seasonings such as chili, cumin, garlic, or black pepper. Sometimes, baking soda or slaked lime is also added. The dough is shaped into a thin, round flatbread and then dried (traditionally in the sun), and can be cooked by deep frying, roasting over an open flame, toasting, or microwaving, depending on the desired texture.\n\nBikaner is the hub of chickpea and green gram \"papadam\" manufacturing. Potato \"papadam\" is made in Varanasi. Most sweet- and snack-selling national companies are also involved in this business. In the north, papads made in the city of Amritsar and its surrounds (Amritsari Papar Warian) are especially famous. The Lijjat Papad company (Shri Mahila Griha Udyog Lijjat Papad), headquartered in Mumbai, is a major manufacturer, and is often cited as an exemplar of the women's empowerment movement in India, as it is run entirely by women.\n\nIn most Indian restaurants around the world, they are served as an appetizer with dips, which often include mango chutney, lime pickle, onion chutney, and \"raita\". Masala Papad with sev, onion, tomato, coriander leaves toppings, is one of the best selling appetizers in India.\n\n\"Papadum\" can be prepared from different ingredients and methods. Arguably, the most popular recipe uses flour ground from hulled split black gram mixed with black pepper, salt, and a small amount of vegetable oil and a food-grade alkali, and the mixture is kneaded. A well-kneaded dough is then flattened into very thin rounds and then dried and stored for later preparation and consumption. It may also contain rice, Jackfruit, Sabudana, etc., as main ingredients. Cracked black pepper, red chili powder, Asafoetida, or cumin or sesame seeds are often used as flavoring agents. Papad or Happala is also made from Rice flakes, Ragi and Horsegram also.\n\n\"Papadum\" is often associated with the empowerment of women in India. Many individual and organized businesses run by women produce papad, pickles, and other snacks. This provides them regular income from minimal financial investments. Shri Mahila Griha Udyog Lijjat Papad is an organization (owned and run solely by women) which produces large quantities of \"papadums\" on the open market, which started as a small business in the late 1950s, with an annual income in 2005 of about . However, with the recent growth of modern trade in India and the growing consumer awareness, other brands have been gaining in popularity within this category.\nSome divergence of transliteration may be noted in the third consonant in the Hindi/Urdu word \"pāpaṛ\". The sound is the retroflex flap , which is written in Hindi with the Devanagari letter ड़, and in Urdu script with the Perso-Arabic letter ڑ. Although in IAST the Hindi letter ड़ is transliterated as <ṛ>, popular or nonstandard transliterations of Hindi use <d> for this sound, because etymologically it derives from ड . The occurrence of this consonant in the word \"pāpaṛ\" has given rise to two alternative spellings in English: \"papad\", which reflects its etymology, and \"papar\" (anglicized as \"popper\"), which reflects its phonology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924184", "title": "James Stuart, 1st Viscount Stuart of Findhorn", "text": "James Stuart, 1st Viscount Stuart of Findhorn\n\nJames Gray Stuart, 1st Viscount Stuart of Findhorn, (9 February 1897 – 20 February 1971) was a Scottish Unionist politician. He was joint-Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury in Winston Churchill's war-time coalition government and later served as Secretary of State for Scotland under Churchill and then Sir Anthony Eden from 1951 to 1957. In 1959 he was elevated to the peerage as Viscount Stuart of Findhorn.\n\nBorn in Edinburgh, Stuart was the third and youngest son of Morton Stuart, 17th Earl of Moray, and Edith Douglas Palmer, daughter of Rear-Admiral George Palmer.\n\nStuart was commissioned from the Officers Training Corps into the Royal Scots (Special Reserve) as a 2nd Lieutenant (his probation completed in Jan 1915) and served in the First World War, reaching the rank of Captain. He was awarded the Military Cross and Bar in 1917.\n\nHe was appointed Equerry to HRH Prince Albert in June 1920, and was appointed a Member (4th Class) of the Royal Victorian Order in the 1922 New Year Honours, with the award dated 3 Dec 1921.\n\nStuart sat as Member of Parliament (MP) for Moray and Nairn from 1923 to 1959. He served as a Lord of the Treasury from 1935 to 1941 under successively Ramsay MacDonald, Stanley Baldwin, Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill and was sworn of the Privy Council in the 1939 Birthday Honours. In 1941 Churchill promoted him to joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury (Government Chief Whip), which he remained until 1945. He continued as Conservative Chief Whip until 1948. In 1950 he became Chairman of the Scottish Unionist Party, a post he held until 1962.\n\nWhen the Conservatives returned to power under Churchill in 1951, Stuart was made Secretary of State for Scotland, with a seat in the cabinet. He continued in this post until 1957, the last two years under the premiership of Sir Anthony Eden. He was appointed a Companion of Honour in 1957. On 20 November 1959 he was elevated to the peerage as Viscount Stuart of Findhorn, of Findhorn in the County of Moray.\n\nLord Stuart of Findhorn married Lady Rachel Cavendish, daughter of Victor Cavendish, 9th Duke of Devonshire (and sister of Dorothy Cavendish, wife of Harold Macmillan), in 1923.\n\nHe had earlier been noted as a suitor of Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon while serving as an equerry to Prince Albert, Duke of York (the future King George VI).\n\nLord and Lady Stuart had two sons and one daughter. \n\nLord Stuart died in February 1971, aged 74, and was succeeded in the viscountcy by his eldest son, David. Lady Stuart of Findhorn died in October 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924188", "title": "Neil Murray (British musician)", "text": "Neil Murray (British musician)\n\nPhilip Neil Murray (born 27 August 1950) is a Scottish bass player, noted for his collaboration with Whitesnake, The Brian May Band, Black Sabbath and with Gary Moore.\n\nOriginally a drummer who started playing bass in 1967, Murray formed his first band with school friends in 1967 (Slap Happy and the Dum-Dums). His musical tastes were heavily influenced by the mid-1960s 'blues boom' bands and musicians, especially Jeff Beck, Eric Clapton and Jack Bruce, and later by Motown legend James Jamerson and Tim Bogert of Vanilla Fudge, Cactus and Beck, Bogert & Appice. Murray moved to bass shortly before studying graphic design at the London College of Printing.\n\nDuring 1973, Neil briefly played in Gilgamesh, a jazz-fusion band led by Alan Gowen. After his departure from Gilgamesh, Murray toured the USA with Junior Hanson, following a recommendation from Jeff Beck's bass player Clive Chaman. Hanson later became a member of Bob Marley & The Wailers under the name Junior Marvin. Neil spent early 1974 supporting the album he recorded with them, \"Magic Dragon\".\n\nMurray's next gig came again through a recommendation from Clive Chaman, touring with Cozy Powell's Hammer in 1974 and 1975. The line-up included keyboardist Don Airey and guitarist Bernie Marsden.\n\nAfter Cozy Powell decided to fold Hammer, Murray and Airey joined a revamped version of the British jazz rock band Colosseum, named Colosseum II. The band's leader, drummer Jon Hiseman, had evolved the band's sound by eliminating the saxophone in preference for a rockier sound courtesy of Gary Moore's guitar. \nThis line-up of Colosseum II lasted for the first 1976 album \"Strange New Flesh\" (a title thought up by Murray). \"Strange New Flesh\" was a little less intellectual than most of the jazz rock coming out of the UK. It did not have the blackness of bands like Weather Report, but offered more accessible melodies and rock power than the more \"intellectual\" Canterbury fusion scene presented at the time. Following months of touring Europe and the UK, Murray and vocalist Mike Starrs were fired, due to pressure from the record label Bronze Records, who soon after dropped Colosseum II altogether.\n\nAfter Colosseum II, in 1976 Neil teamed up again with ex-Gilgamesh keyboardist Alan Gowen in National Health with whom he recorded a self-titled album in 1977. Prior to recording that album, the band played with drummer Bill Bruford of Yes/King Crimson fame, who was followed by ex-Hatfield & the North drummer Pip Pyle. Murray got the chance to work with Bruford again, playing on the rehearsals for Bruford's 1978 \"Feels Good to Me\" debut solo album, standing in for Jeff Berlin who was the actual bassist with the band (the LP cover read 'Thanks to Neil Murray: A bass player when I needed one'). Murray also deputised for Berlin on Bruford's \"Old Grey Whistle Test\" appearance in 1978. During this performance he sports a long sleeve T-shirt saying 'More Bass', predating \"Saturday Night Live\"'s \"More Cowbell\" by more than 20 years.\n\nNational Health's complex music and the lack of commercial success prompted Murray to investigate other musical avenues planted in the world of bands like Cream, Jeff Beck or John Mayall & The Bluesbreakers. After playing with Bernie Marsden in Cozy Powell's Hammer, Murray had played on a couple of tracks on Babe Ruth's 1975 album \"Stealing Home\", prior to Marsden joining two members of Deep Purple in Paice Ashton Lord.\n\nIn late 1977, ex-Deep Purple singer David Coverdale was auditioning drummers for his new band Whitesnake, which featured guitarists Micky Moody and Bernie Marsden. Marsden invited Murray to help out with the process which led to him landing the gig together with drummer Dave Dowle. Deep Purple's Jon Lord joined in the summer of 1978 and, after recording \"Lovehunter\" in 1979, Dowle was replaced by Ian Paice (ex-Deep Purple).\n\nFrom 1978 until late 1986, Murray helped make Whitesnake one of the most popular bands in Europe and Japan, and later America. He recorded with Whitesnake ten albums: \"Live at Hammersmith\" (1978), Snakebite (1978), \"Trouble\" (1978), \"Love Hunter\" (1979), \"Ready an' Willing\" (1980), \"Live...In the Heart of the City\" (1980), \"Come an' Get It\" (1981), \"Saints & Sinners\" (1982), \"Slide It In\" (1984), and \"Whitesnake / 1987\" (1987). Murray's melodic basslines, influenced by Jack Bruce, Andy Fraser and even Jaco Pastorius, stand out from the rock bass-playing of the time.\n\nHe did numerous tours in the UK, Europe, Japan and played at Reading Festival in 1979 and 1980 and the Monsters of Rock festival at Castle Donington, England in 1981. However, tours of the US opening for Jethro Tull in 1980 and Judas Priest in 1981 were not enough to match the band's success elsewhere.\n\nIn early 1982, after tense \"Saints & Sinners\" recording sessions, Coverdale decided on a complete shake-up of the band, management, publishing, and recording contracts. There was a period of uncertainty as to who would be in the 'new' Whitesnake, though Cozy Powell was definitely coming in to replace Ian Paice. Around this time, Paice and Murray had recorded Gary Moore's 1982 \"Corridors of Power\" album, and Paice had decided to join Moore. Murray followed suit, and was replaced by Colin Hodgkinson. Coverdale reshuffled the band as Bernie Marsden departed, replaced by Mel Galley, but Micky Moody and Jon Lord returned to the fold after initial uncertainty.\n\nSoon after his departure, Murray briefly formed an outfit called Badlands (not to be confused with the American band featuring Jake E. Lee) behind Uriah Heep's John Sloman on vocals and future Thin Lizzy's John Sykes on guitars. The band recorded some demos, played London's Marquee Club and shopped for a record deal, to no avail. The band's music was hard rock and fitted the gap between a melodic band like Thin Lizzy, a blues influenced outfit like Whitesnake and a more straight-ahead AC/DC.\n\nIn 1982, Neil Murray and Ian Paice both joined Gary Moore for a very successful two years. Murray and Paice recorded three albums with Moore: \"Corridors of Power\" (1982), \"Victims of the Future\" (1983) and \"Rockin' Every Night – Live in Japan\" (1983).\n\nThe period 1979–1982 also saw Murray participating in a number of solo albums from Bernie Marsden, Graham Bonnet, Cozy Powell, Forcefield and Jon Lord, sometimes playing with drummer Simon Phillips, which led in 1981 to Murray playing with a trio of superstars – Jeff Beck, Sting and Eric Clapton – at two of the Secret Policeman's Other Ball series of four concerts at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, London. This event was filmed and recorded; Murray is to be heard on \"Crossroads\" with Beck, Clapton and Simon Phillips even though the album sleeve does not contain any individual credits.\n\nIn late 1983, Whitesnake went through one of its many line-ups changes. Micky Moody and Colin Hodgkinson were no longer part of the band. They already had recorded a new album \"Slide It In\" (1984). At that time, Coverdale hooked up with A&R guru John Kalodner and signed with Geffen Records. After failed attempts at hiring Adrian Vandenberg and Mama's Boys' Pat McManus, Coverdale welcomed John Sykes (Tygers of Pan Tang, Thin Lizzy) to the band. Sykes brought a lot of fresh ideas, technical ability and an appropriate image to project the band on MTV. Murray was asked back and he and Sykes re-recorded a lot of the guitar and all of the bass parts for \"Slide It In\", resulting in two available vinyl versions: one for Europe featuring Moody and Hodgkinson and a US remix version with Sykes and Murray. The US version was remixed by American Grammy-winning record producer and sound engineer Keith Olsen (Fleetwood Mac, Journey, Sammy Hagar, Pat Benatar) to give it a more radio friendly sound.\n\n1984 was occupied with touring, headlining in the UK and Europe; however, Mel Galley injured his arm, resulting in him having to leave the band and John Sykes taking care of all guitar duties on the road after a couple of months. In the summer, Jon Lord left the band for the Deep Purple reunion thus making Whitesnake a four-piece outfit (Coverdale, Murray, Sykes, Powell) with off-stage keyboard player Richard Bailey (ex-Magnum). Support slots in the USA with Dio then Quiet Riot (at the height of their brief success) helped to bring Whitesnake to a much wider audience.\n\nThe album and tour, culminating with an appearance at the 1985 Rock in Rio Festival in front of 150,000 people, marked the end of an era for the band. Disagreements over financial matters led to Cozy Powell leaving the band for Emerson, Lake & Powell. Aynsley Dunbar (ex-Frank Zappa, Journey, Jefferson Starship) was in place for the recording of what was to be Whitesnake's most successful album.\n\nThe making of \"Whitesnake / 1987\" (1987) was fraught with delays, illness and difficulties. Murray's status as an official member of Whitesnake was unclear and although Coverdale had given all members permission to get involved in other projects, there was not enough money to keep Murray and Dunbar on a retainer until the album was completed.\n\nMurray continued doing sessions for several artists (Phenomena amongst others) and recorded with a band project put together by music impresario Jonathan King called Gogmagog, featuring former Iron Maiden singer Paul Di'Anno, future Iron Maiden guitarist Janick Gers (ex-Ian Gillan), ex-Def Leppard guitarist Pete Willis and another ex-Iron Maiden member Clive Burr on drums. The band released an EP \"I Will Be There\" to general apathy.\n\nWhilst still waiting for things to move in the Whitesnake camp, Murray teamed up with guitarists Bernie Marsden and Mel Galley in the short-lived MGM. The band did some live dates (including the Reading Festival in 1987), but never really took off. A year after recording the backing tracks for \"Whitesnake / 1987\" (1987), with work proceeding at a very slow and expensive pace on the album, Murray took the opportunity to redo some of the bass parts, but disagreements over leadership led to John Sykes quitting the band 16 months after recording had begun.\n\nIn early 1987, Coverdale put together a completely new version of Whitesnake in Los Angeles, and Murray was no longer part of the band. Murray had to hire lawyers to get his financial due from the huge success of \"Whitesnake / 1987\" (1987), the album that went on to sell well over 10 million copies worldwide. To this day, Murray remains the individual who has played on the second most Whitesnake albums, behind only David Coverdale himself.\n\nIn 1987, Murray joined Japanese hard rock band Vow Wow, who had recently relocated to England, after having worked with its guitarist Kyoji Yamamoto on the second album by Phenomena. He recorded four albums with the band between 1987 and 1989, and toured the UK, Europe, and Japan. He also lived in Tokyo for a few months in 1988. Vocalist Genki Hitomi wanted to remain in Japan, so the group recorded what was supposed to be their last album titled \"Helter Skelter\" (1988), which was produced by Tony Taverner, who had previously engineered for Black Sabbath. Murray would later state that he never \"really became a permanent member\" of Vow Wow in order to keep his options open, partly because he was a member of MGM at the same time.\n\nBy 1989, with Geezer Butler's refusal to join the latest Black Sabbath line-up, Murray was asked by Cozy Powell to try out. He joined soon after the release of \"Headless Cross\" (1989) and toured with the band in support of the album. Murray stayed with the band until late 1990, recording the \"Tyr\" album and once again touring. Live, Murray was able to showcase various bass styles that had not been able to flourish in Whitesnake, ranging from Jack Bruce-type improvising to heavy metal soloing to delicate false harmonics.\n\nAfter Black Sabbath reformed their 1981 \"Mob Rules\" lineup in 1991 with Dio, Butler and Appice for \"Dehumanizer\", Cozy Powell and Murray started a band project and recorded songs with singer John West (Artension, Royal Hunt). Nothing came out of it until 1998 when those songs resurfaced on a tribute album released after Powell's death in April 1998.\n\nIn 1992, Murray played with Cozy Powell and Black Sabbath's Tony Martin, in a new version of Cozy Powell's Hammer that was short lived. Murray had earlier recorded most of Tony Martin's first solo album \"Back Where I Belong\" and later played at a series of concerts at Expo' 92 in Seville, Spain backing Steve Vai, Joe Satriani and Brian May. He also reunited with his ex-Whitesnake pals, guitarists Bernie Marsden and Micky Moody, for some dates in the UK with their Moody Marsden Band.\n\nIn 1992, Queen's Brian May was ready to go on the road for the first time as a solo artist. Murray and Cozy Powell had done sessions for May's solo album \"Back to the Light\" (1992) and they were a natural choice for the touring band. For two years, the band toured the world, notably supporting Guns N' Roses and releasing \"Live at the Brixton Academy\" in 1993.\n\nThe core of the Brian May Band (Neil, Cozy, Spike Edney and Jamie Moses) became the basis of the SAS Band (Spike's All Stars), which continues to this day, playing sporadic live gigs with many famous guest vocalists, including Paul Rodgers, Brian May, Roger Taylor, Chaka Khan, Arthur Brown, Lionel Richie, Bob Geldof and many others. After the first year, Steve Stroud became their main bassist, but Neil returns to play with the band every couple of years.\n\nIn late 1994, Cozy Powell and Murray returned to Black Sabbath. They recorded \"Forbidden\" (1995) and toured the US & Canada in 1995, although the tour of the UK, Europe and the Far East saw the return of Bobby Rondinelli on drums when Powell departed.\n\n1996 and 1997 saw Murray and Cozy Powell helping to kickstart the return of the legendary Peter Green (John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers, Fleetwood Mac) in his Splinter Group. Murray recorded three albums with Green and toured the UK with occasional European dates.\n\nIn 1998, Brian May released his third solo album, \"Another World\", which Murray and Cozy Powell had once again played on, but Powell's death meant a tour with Eric Singer (KISS, Alice Cooper, Lita Ford, Black Sabbath) instead. 1998 also saw the posthumous release of Cozy Powell's \"Especially for You\" featuring vocal phenom John West (Royal Hunt, Artension, Badlands, Lynch Mob, Ten Man Push), guitarist Michael Casswell (Brian May Band), and keyboardist Lonnie Park (John West, Wrathchild America, Ten Man Push).\n\nIn 1999, Murray started working again with Bernie Marsden and Micky Moody, who had been working with British-Norwegian Whitesnake tribute band The Snakes. When Marsden and Moody eventually parted ways with their Norwegian colleagues, they changed the band name to The Company of Snakes with the vocalist Robert Hart (The Jones Gang, Bad Company, Distance, solo artist/songwriter) joined them, together with Don Airey on keyboards.\n\nAfter of few years of gigging mainly in the UK and Europe, Robert Hart decided to leave to concentrate on his solo/songwriting career. The only available recording of this line-up (with Don Airey on keys and John Lingwood on drums) is on Micky Moody's solo album \"I Eat Them for Breakfast\" (2000). In 2001 Swedish singer Stefan Berggren was recruited and The Company of Snakes released two albums: \"Here They Go Again\" (2001, the gig was recorded in Germany and Norway with temporary ex-MSG singer Gary Barden, but his vocals were erased and Stefan Berggren overdubbed) and \"Burst the Bubble\" (2002), which featured songs written by most of the band.\n\nDespite success on the touring front, The Company of Snakes called it a day in early 2002, with the band being transformed into M3 Classic Whitesnake, dropping recent original material in favour of a purely Whitesnake set. Ex-Sabbath frontman Tony Martin was their singer initially, before being replaced by Stefan Berggren. The band has released one live album (with Tony Martin on vocals) and one live DVD (with Stefan Berggren and Rainbow/Yngwie Malmsteen/Cornerstone singer Doogie White) featuring songs from the classic Whitesnake era 1978–1982. Murray is also a member of German heavy rock band Empire with whom he has recorded three albums. The band is the brain child of guitarist Rolf Munkes and featured Tony Martin on the \"Trading Souls\" (2003) and \"The Raven Ride\" (2006) albums.\n\nSince April 2002, Murray has been in the band of the London musical \"We Will Rock You\". He also performed at 2007's 'Classics in Rock' concert in Rotterdam and the first London Rock 'n Roll Fantasy Camp.\n\nMurray played on the Michael Schenker Group album \"In the Midst of Beauty\", which was released on 11 May 2008.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924191", "title": "Rampage (1987 film)", "text": "Rampage (1987 film)\n\nRampage is a 1987 American crime drama film written, produced and directed by William Friedkin. The film stars Michael Biehn, Alex McArthur, and Nicholas Campbell.\n\nIn retrospect William Friedkin said: \"There are a lot of people who love \"Rampage\", but I don’t think I hit my own mark with that\"\n\nCharles Reece is a serial killer who commits a number of brutal mutilation-slayings in order to drink blood as a result of paranoid delusions.\n\nReece is soon captured. Most of the film revolves around the trial and the prosecutor's attempts to have Reece found sane and given the death penalty. Defense lawyers, meanwhile, argue that the defendant is not guilty by reason of insanity.\n\nThe prosecutor, Anthony Fraser, was previously against capital punishment, but he seeks such a penalty in the face of Reece's brutal crimes after meeting one victim's grieving family.\n\nIn the end, Reece is found sane and given the death penalty, but Fraser's internal debate about capital punishment is rendered academic when Reece is found to be insane by a scanning of his brain for mental illness. In the ending of the original version of the film, Reece is found dead in his cell, having overdosed himself on antipsychotics he had been stockpiling. In the ending of the revised version, Reece is sent to a state mental hospital, and in a chilling coda, he sends a letter to a person whose wife and child he has killed, asking the man to come and visit him. A final title card reveals that Reece is scheduled for a parole hearing in six months.\n\n\nCharles Reece is loosely based on serial killer Richard Chase. The crimes that Reece commits are slightly different from Chase's, however; Reece kills three women, a man and a young boy, whereas Chase killed two men, two women (one of whom was pregnant), a young boy and a 22-month-old baby. Additionally, Reece escapes at one point—which Chase did not do—murdering two guards and later a priest. However, Reece and Chase similarly had a history of mental illness and an obsession with drinking blood. Unlike Reece, Chase was sentenced to death, but he was found dead in his prison cell, an apparent suicide, before the sentence could be carried out.\n\nThe film's score was composed, orchestrated, arranged and conducted by Ennio Morricone and was released on vinyl LP, cassette and compact disc by Virgin Records.\n\n\"Rampage\" was filmed in 1986 in Stockton, California. It played at the Boston Film Festival in September 1987, and ran theatrically in some European countries in the late 1980s. Plans for the film's theatrical release in America were shelved when production studio DEG, the distributor of \"Rampage\", went bankrupt. The film was unreleased in North America for five years. During that time, director Friedkin reedited the film, and changed the ending (with Reece no longer committing suicide in jail) before its US release in October 1992. The European video versions usually feature the film's original ending.\n\nIn retrospect, William Friedkin said: \"At the time we made \"Rampage\", [producer] Dino De Laurentiis was running out of money. He finally went bankrupt, after a long career as a producer. He was doing just scores of films and was unable to give any of them his real support and effort. And so literally by the time it came to release \"Rampage\", he didn’t have the money to do it. And he was not only the financier, but the distributor. His company went bankrupt, and the film went to black for about five years. Eventually, the Weinsteins’ company Miramax took it out of bankruptcy and rereleased it. But this was among the lowest points in my career.\"\n\nIn his review, film critic Roger Ebert gave \"Rampage\" three stars out of four saying, \"This is not a movie about murder so much as a movie about insanity—as it applies to murder in modern American criminal courts...Friedkin['s] message is clear: Those who commit heinous crimes should pay for them, sane or insane. You kill somebody, you fry—unless the verdict is murky or there were extenuating circumstances.\"\n\nAs of 2010, the film has been released on DVD only in Poland, by SPI International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924195", "title": "Elizabeth Hope, Baroness Glendevon", "text": "Elizabeth Hope, Baroness Glendevon\n\nMary Elizabeth Hope, Baroness Glendevon (née Maugham, formerly Paravicini; 1 September 1915 – 27 December 1998) was the only child of English playwright, novelist, and short story writer W. Somerset Maugham and his then-mistress, Syrie Wellcome.\n\nShe was known as Liza, after her father's first successful novel, \"Liza of Lambeth\". Lady Glendevon was the plaintiff in one of the most celebrated family law trials of the early 1960s, when she fought her celebrated father's unsuccessful attempt to prove that she was not his child. Her parents married in 1917, after her mother's divorce from the British pharmaceuticals magnate Henry Wellcome. Her mother was a daughter of orphanage founder Thomas John Barnardo.\n\nIn his memoir \"Looking Back\" (1962), Somerset Maugham denied paternity of Liza. Around the same time, he attempted to have her disinherited in order to adopt his male secretary, suggesting that she was actually the child of Syrie by either Henry Wellcome, Gordon Selfridge or an unknown lover. The subsequent 21-month court case, fought in British and French courts, determined that Maugham was her biological father, and the author was legally barred from his adoption plans. Maugham's daughter was awarded approximately $1,400,000 in damages, comprising $280,000 in a cash settlement to compensate her for paintings originally willed to her, along with royalties to some of his books, and the controlling interest in his French villa.\n\nOn 20 July 1936 at St. Margaret's, Westminster, Liza Maugham married Lt.-Col. Vincent Rudolph Paravicini, a son of the Swiss Minister (i.e., ambassador) to the Court of St. James's, Charles Paravicini. \n\nTheir first child, born in 1937, was Nicholas Vincent Somerset Paravicini, who would marry Mary Ann Parker Bowles, sister of Andrew Parker Bowles. They had two sons and a daughter: \n\nNicholas and Mary Ann divorced, and around 1986 he married Susan Rose (\"Suki\") Phipps (born 1941), who had previously been married to Richard de la Mare and Derek Marlowe. She was the daughter of Alan Phipps, who died in the Battle of Leros, by his wife Hon. Veronica Nell Fraser, daughter of Lord Lovat. Suki was brought up by Fitzroy Maclean, one of the inspirations for James Bond. Nicholas and Suki had no children.\n\nIn 1941 Liza Maugham bore her second child, Camilla Paravicini, who in 1963 became the third wife of Manuel Basil Mavroleon, known as Bluey Mavroleon. They had two daughters:\n\nThe Mavroleons divorced and Camilla married Count Frédéric Chandon de Briailles, the champagne heir.\n\nMaugham and her first husband divorced in 1948. That same year, she married Lord John Hope, who later became the first Baron Glendevon. They also had children together, namely: \n\n"}
{"id": "1924196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924196", "title": "Gloria Guida", "text": "Gloria Guida\n\nGloria Guida (; born 19 November 1955) is an Italian actress and model. She is most famous for starring in commedia erotica all'italiana, particularly the \"La liceale\" series, and also in erotic coming-of-age-drama films in the mid-1970s.\n\nGloria Guida was born in Merano, Trentino-Alto Adige, to a family of Emilia Romagna origin. She moved with her family to Bologna as a child. She first began a singing career, starting in her father's dancing place on the Romagna coast. Then she took up modeling, becoming \"Miss Teenage Italia\" in 1974.\n\nGuida subsequently went on to star in many sexy comedies. Two of her early films, \"La ragazzina\" (\"Monika\" in English-language release) and \"La minorenne\", both shot in the summer of 1974, are stories of young female characters discovering their sexuality. She made her real breakthrough in 1975 with \"La liceale\" (\"Teasers\"). Another film of particular success was \"Avere vent'anni\" (\"To Be Twenty\") in 1978, where she starred with Lilli Carati.\n\nIn 1981, Guida married singer and actor Johnny Dorelli, whom she met in the stage musical \"Accendiamo la lampada\" (1979). They have one daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924198", "title": "Simon Laffy", "text": "Simon Laffy\n\nSimon Laffy (born 11 October 1958) is an English novelist and bassist, a former member of Man Raze and former member of Girl.\n\nSimon Laffy was born at home in Hoxton, London. He started playing music at fourteen years old, inspired by his musician brother, Steve. He joined his first band at fifteen and was playing in London clubs (Dingwalls, The Embassy, Maunkberrys) before being legally old enough to be in them. Simon signed his first record deal with glam rock band Girl at twenty one years old and toured Europe, the Far East and the UK. Subsequently, he has played at most venues in Britain, including Wembley Arena, Hammersmith Odeon, the Marquee Club and at the Download, Reading and Phoenix Festivals.\n\nHis music career included working as a producer, composer, arranger, performer, engineer, programmer, live mixer and DJ. He has played on fifteen albums and eighteen singles, as well as performing on countless studio sessions, TV appearances and radio broadcasts, interviews, photo sessions and approximately two thousand gigs. In 2004, Simon formed a rock band, Man Raze, with his former Girl bandmate Phil Collen from Def Leppard and Paul Cook from the Sex Pistols and began a dance album project called Pearl Avenue with Joel Parkes, the Canadian singer/songwriter. Man Raze also formed their own record company, Surrealist Records.\n\nSimon Laffy began a writing career in 2010 and has published three historical fiction novels, titled \"Seed of Satan\", \"Red Sunrise\" and \"Fire of the Sun\", on the ACM Retro Ltd imprint.\n\nSimon Laffy is the brother of Gerry Laffy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924199", "title": "The Cartridge Family", "text": "The Cartridge Family\n\n\"The Cartridge Family\" is the fifth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> ninth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on November 2, 1997. It was written by John Swartzwelder and directed by Pete Michels. In the episode, Homer purchases a gun to protect his family, of which Marge disapproves. Homer begins to show extremely careless gun usage causing Marge to leave him when she catches Bart using the gun without their permission. The episode was intended to show guns in a neutral way, and faced some problems with the censors because of the subject matter. Critical reaction was mostly positive.\n\nA riot breaks out in Springfield after a boring soccer match between Mexico and Portugal. Fearing for her family's safety, Marge tells Homer to buy a Home Security System, but after learning it would cost $500, he buys a handgun instead. After a five-day waiting period per the Brady Act, Homer shows his firearm to Marge, who is horrified and demands he get rid of it. Homer brings her to a local National Rifle Association meeting hoping to change her mind, but she remains unconvinced.\n\nAfter a near accident at the dinner table, Marge again begs Homer to get rid of the gun. He promises to, but later, Bart and Milhouse find it in the refrigerator's vegetable crisper. Marge discovers this and berates Homer, then leaves with the children and checks into a motel. That night, Homer hosts an NRA meeting at his house, but the other members kick him out of the association after seeing how recklessly he uses his pistol. Realizing what his behavior has cost him, Homer goes to the motel and tells Marge he got rid of the gun.\n\nWhile leaving, Snake arrives to rob the desk clerk. Homer pulls out his gun and Marge is angry he lied again, but as he tries to apologize, Snake snatches the gun. The other NRA members arrive and foil Snake, who escapes. Homer then says he does not trust himself and asks Marge to throw the gun away herself. However, Marge sees a reflection of herself holding it in the trash can and decides to keep it.\n\nThis was the first episode to air which was executive produced by Mike Scully. Sam Simon pitched an episode for one of the first seasons which saw Homer getting a gun and nobody wanting him to have it. The episode concluded with Homer foiling a robbery and stating that although guns bring destruction, it worked for him. However, this episode was pitched by Scully for either season seven or eight, before being used for season nine. This provided the basic outline, and John Swartzwelder wrote the script. A lot of lines in the episode put guns in a positive light, as the staff felt that they could not just make an episode about how bad they were. Several of the staff, including Swartzwelder, are \"pro gun\", although others, such as Matt Groening, are completely against them. The episode was designed to be non-biased and to portray each side of the argument equally. Scully noted that if there is any message in the episode it is that a man like Homer should not own a gun. The censors were nervous about some of the episode's subject matter, such as Homer pointing the gun in Marge's face, and Bart aiming the gun at Milhouse with the apple in his mouth, but ultimately let it go.\n\nThe opening sequence where soccer is portrayed as the most boring sport imaginable was intended to show that soccer was more boring on television than live, but both Michels and Groening enjoy the game. The referee at the game is a caricature of the janitor at Film Roman, who supplied director Pete Michels with every piece of soccer information he needed to design the episode. Pelé also makes an appearance at the match, although he is voiced by Hank Azaria.\n\nThe episode closes with music from \"The Avengers\". After the music had been recorded, Scully felt that it did not suit the ending and so wished to change it to something else. However, it was too late in production to get the full orchestra back to do a recording, and union rules meant that previous recordings could not be reused.\n\nThe chalkboard gag references the Richard Gere gerbil urban legend.\n\nThe gun shop is based on the shop that the Los Angeles Police Department went to during the North Hollywood bank robbery to acquire more ammunition. \nThe title of this episode is a play on the name of 1970s television series \"The Partridge Family\". The end music is the theme to the 1960s British tv series \"The Avengers\", and the song playing when Homer is sitting and watching things go by while he is waiting five days for his gun is \"The Waiting\" by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. Petty rarely let his music be used on television, but, being a fan of \"The Simpsons\", he allowed them to use it.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"The Cartridge Family\" finished 26th in ratings for the week of October 27 – November 2, 1997, with a Nielsen rating of 10.5, equivalent to approximately 10.3 million viewing households. It was the third highest-rated show on the Fox network, following \"The X-Files\" and \"King of the Hill\".\n\nThe episode received several positive reviews, being included in the \"Herald Sun\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s list of the top twenty \"The Simpsons\" episodes. It was also named the fifth best episode in the show's history in an article by \"The Florida Times-Union\". The \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" also praised the episode, calling \"The Simpsons\" \"the only sitcom in memory to treat gun control with any fairness\".\n\nOn the other hand, the episode has been criticized by several outlets. Although the fictionalized NRA stresses the importance of responsible gun ownership, the staff nontheless received several complaints from the real National Rifle Association about the portrayal of the organization in the episode. Ian Jones and Steve Williams criticized the episode, calling it \"a messy, unfocused lampooning of gun culture\". Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, the authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", found that it was \"one of the most politically unambiguous episodes ever\", but that \"[it] is very dull and the plot isn't sustainable\". Anna Leszkiewicz in the \"New Statesman\" later pinpointed it as the moment Marge should have left Homer, saying \"Homer has proved himself to be a violent, unstable, controlling, reckless husband\".\n\nThe episode was not initially aired on the United Kingdom satellite channel Sky1 due to scenes of flagrant gun misuse, yet was aired several times on BBC Two in an earlier evening timeslot. The episode has since been aired in daytime slots on all channels, albeit with partial editing. The episode was also included on the \"Too Hot for TV\" VHS and DVD, along with \"Treehouse of Horror IX\", \"Natural Born Kissers\", and \"Grampa vs. Sexual Inadequacy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1924200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924200", "title": "Highland Railway – Jones locomotives", "text": "Highland Railway – Jones locomotives\n\nDavid Jones (1834–1906) was locomotive superintendent of the Highland Railway between 1870 and 1896. He was credited with the design of the first British 4-6-0, which was strongly influenced by the Scottish locomotive design for Indian Railways. The 4-6-0 wheel arrangement that appeared in 1894, quickly became the most common locomotive for main line passenger and mixed traffic work in Britain.\n\nAlthough Jones was a fervent of Alexander Allan, Jones' new designs tended to break away from the Allan tradition, which had lasted so long in Scotland. One Allan feature that Jones did not perpetuate in his 4-6-0s was double framing around the outside cylinders. Allan's straight-link valve gear was, however, retained; this was basically similar to the corresponding Stephenson gear, but the link was easier and therefore cheaper to make and imparted a constant lead irrespective of cut-off. The \"Drummond\" Castle class was, mechanically, Jones’ personal design, although the Drummond stamp of chimney, cab and 'water-cart' bogie tender was unmistakable. A dubious asset, without which none of the younger Drummond's locomotives was complete, was the provision of steam reverse, a troublesome mechanism if it were not well maintained.\n\nWith the introduction of the 4-6-0, Highland Railway had thus obviated the 0-6-0 type employed by practically every other British railway, except its most intense competitor, the Great North of Scotland Railway. A 0-6-0, however, would have meant a crank axle, and crank axles did not have a place in Jones' designs.\n\nJones’ new designs also tended to break away from the Allan tradition, although he continued to use the Allan link valve gear.\n\n\nIn 1892 the opportunity was taken to purchase two 4-4-0T engines which had been built by Dübs and Company for the Uruguay Eastern Railway but not delivered due to a financial hitch. These were known as the \"Yankee\" tanks.\n\nWhen the Far North Line opened to Golspie in 1871, the 3rd Duke of Sutherland had purchased a small 2-4-0T from Kitson and Company for his private train. Named \"Dunrobin\", it had 4' driving wheels, 10\" by 18\" outside cylinders, and weighed 21 tons in working order. On his succession, the 4th Duke decided to have a new locomotive built, and the original \"Dunrobin\" was sold to the Highland Railway in 1895. It was rebuilt in 1896 with a larger boiler and cylinders. The Highland Railway numbered it 118 and named it \"Gordon Castle\"' for use on the Fochabers branch. Later it was renamed \"Invergordon\" and used as a shunter in that town, where it survived until just after the Grouping.\n\nThe Duke's new locomotive was an 0-4-4T designed by Jones and built by Sharp, Stewart and Company in 1895. Also named \"Dunrobin\", it had 4' 6\" driving wheels and 13\" by 18\" inside cylinders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924201", "title": "Rábida Island", "text": "Rábida Island\n\nRábida Island (), is one of the Galápagos Islands. The 5 km² island has also been known as Jervis Island named in honour of the 18th-century British admiral John Jervis. In Ecuador it is officially known as Isla Rábida.\n\nIn addition to flamingos and the bachelor sea lion colony, pelicans, white-cheeked pintails, boobies, and nine species of finch have been reported. The rich wildlife attracts a number of tourists cruises.\n\nIn 1971 the National Park Service successfully eradicated goats from Rábida. This introduced species upset the natural environment and led to the extinction of several native creatures including geckos, land iguanas, and rice rats.\n\nDuring January 2011, invasive rodents were removed from the island by The Galápagos National Park, assisted by Island Conservation to benefit Galapagos penguins and \"Scalesia stewartii\" (a tree forming daisy and the plant equivalent of one of Darwin's finches).\n"}
{"id": "1924202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924202", "title": "Ya Kun Kaya Toast", "text": "Ya Kun Kaya Toast\n\nYa Kun Kaya Toast (Simplified Chinese: 亚坤加椰面包) is a Singaporean chain of mass-market, retro-ambience cafés selling toast products (notably kaya toast), soft-boiled eggs and coffee. Founded by Loi Ah Koon in 1944, Ya Kun remained a small family-run stall for decades, but has expanded rapidly since Loi's youngest son headed the business in 1999. The chain has over fifty outlets, mostly franchised, across six countries, and is a Singaporean cultural icon, known for its traditional brand identity and conservative, people-centric corporate culture.\n\nIn 1926, Lai Ah Koon (黎亚坤) emigrated from Hainan to Singapore, where he worked as a coffee-stall assistant. He later went on to start his own business with two other immigrants. They sold coffee, crackers and toast at Telok Ayer Basin, however, his two partners later dropped out, leaving him to run the stall alone. He married while visiting relatives in Hainan, his wife later settled down with him in Singapore. She worked alongside him and later suggested cutting each slice of bread into half and combining the toast with her homemade kaya, this became their signature kaya toast. Registered in 1944 as Ya Kun Coffeestall (Ya Kun being Ah Koon in Hanyu Pinyin), the stall gradually developed a reputation for delicious kaya toast and friendly service. The couple, their eight children and seven other families lived together in a three-storey shophouse across the road, where the Hong Leong Building now stands. As the children grew up, they began to help stir the kaya, run errands, charcoal-grill the bread and eventually, manage the stall.\n\nYa Kun Coffeestall moved to Lau Pa Sat in 1972, but high rents and renovation of Lau Pa Sat in 1984 sparked a return to the Telok Ayer Market; nevertheless, the stall continued to attract \"customers who came every day, some from as far as Jurong or Woodlands\". In 1998, the market closed down, so the stall relocated to Far East Square and was renamed Ya Kun Kaya Toast; the following year, Ah Koon died and his youngest son, Loi Boon Sim Adrin (黎文深), took over the business, determined \"to keep his father's legacy going\". Realising that Ya Kun had a lot of goodwill and potential, Adrin decided to expand the business, the family opened a second store at Tanjong Pagar and, in 2000, began franchising the brand. Ya Kun were incorporated in 2001, and they launched their first overseas outlet (in Indonesia) in 2002 and expanded their menu (adding ice cream toast and the Toastwich), they have won the 2004 and 2005 Superbrands Award, the 2005 to 2007 SIFST Product Award and the 2008 SPBA-CitiBusiness Regional Brands Award.\n\nYa Kun Kaya Toast has over forty Singaporean outlets, about half of which are franchised, and over thirty overseas outlets, all franchised, across seven countries (China, Indonesia, Japan, Myanmar, South Korea, Taiwan, Philippines and United Arab Emirates); they plan to expand to Brunei, India, Malaysia, the Maldives, and Thailand in future. The stores have a retro ambiance, with wooden tables and stools, a Chinese calligraphy of the company name, posters about their history, and traditional methods of preparing food and customer service reflecting Chinese family values. Unlike their main competitors, they have a limited menu that revolves around their core product, kaya toast, with cheese, peanut butter and ice cream as alternative spreads for their thin, brown, crispy bread. To appeal to a wider demographic, Ya Kun also sells French toast and Toastwiches (their Asian alternative to sandwiches).\n\nPrices at local Ya Kun stores are slightly higher than those at kopitiams, but lower than prices of comparable products at Western coffeehouse chains operating in Singapore, while food at overseas Ya Kun outlets is relatively expensive. All outlets obtain their ingredients from the same suppliers and some ingredients, notably the kaya and coffee powder, are made at the Ya Kun factory in Bedok, using recipes that only a few of the Loi family know. The chain are \"widely regarded as an institution of good kaya toast\" and \"a Singaporean cultural icon\" that the Singapore Tourism Board has promoted as a tourist attraction. A \"Ming Pao\" review praised the \"crispy but not hard, fragrant but not burnt\" toast and fresh kaya, while a \"Straits Times\" review described the toast as \"evenly sliced\" and of \"the right texture\", the eggs as \"cooked to perfection\" and the teh tarik as \"not too milky and not overpoweringly sweet either\".\n\nAdrin has an 80 percent share of Ya Kun Singapore and his younger brother, Algie, has a 20 percent share, with other members of the Loi family actively involved in daily activities, while Ya Kun International is fully owned by Adrin Loi. Their corporate culture is conservative and people-centric, with emphasis on preserving their brand identity as their \"chengnuo\" (承诺, \"commitment\" or \"promise\") to their customers, sustainable growth over actively pursuing new opportunities, nurturing family-like relationships among staff (they do not fire or retrench workers) and avoiding aggressive conflict with competitors. Although Ya Kun do not publicly disclose their financial figures, a 2009 \"Lianhe Zaobao\" article estimated that the company had an annual revenue of S$8 million, while a 2012 article in \"The Star\" stated they had 300 employees.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924206", "title": "Dan Shomron", "text": "Dan Shomron\n\nLt. Gen. Dan Shomron (Hebrew: דן שומרון) (August 5, 1937 in Kibbutz Ashdot Yaakov – February 26, 2008) was the 13th Chief of Staff of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), from 1987 to 1991.\n\nShomron first saw combat in the 1956 Sinai campaign. During the Six-Day War, he commanded a unit on the Egyptian front, and was the first paratrooper to reach the Suez Canal. He was decorated with the Medal of Distinguished Service for this action.\n\nIn 1974, Shomron received the command over the Infantry Corps and Paratroopers Brigade of the IDF. He planned and commanded Operation Entebbe in 1976, during which Yonatan Netanyahu (brother of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu) was killed fulfilling his duty as breaching force commander. Although Shomron was proclaimed a hero for that role, he did not always feel comfortable with that appellation, saying\n\nWhen asked what he most remembered about Operation Entebbe and the rescuing of the hostages, he said,\n\nIn 1978, Shomron was in charge of the evacuation and dismantling of Yamit and army bases in the Sinai Peninsula, which occurred within the framework of the Camp David Accords with Egypt.\n\nIn 1983, Shomron established the ground forces command, to be in charge of the infantry, tanks, artillery and engineer corps. He was its first commander.\n\nIn 1987, Shomron became the 13th Chief of Staff of the IDF, holding this position until 1991. After finishing his term, he served as the Chairman of the Israeli Military Industries.\n\nShomron died on February 26, 2008, from complications of a brain aneurysm three weeks earlier. He was 70 years old.\n\nShomron was played by Harris Yulin in the film \"Victory at Entebbe\" (1976). He was portrayed by Charles Bronson in \"Raid on Entebbe\" (1977).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924207", "title": "Arsanilic acid", "text": "Arsanilic acid\n\nArsanilic acid, also known as aminophenyl arsenic acid or aminophenyl arsonic acid, is an organoarsenic compound, an amino derivative of phenylarsonic acid whose amine group is in the 4-position. A crystalline powder introduced medically in the late 19th century as Atoxyl, its sodium salt was used by injection in the early 20th century as the first organic arsenical drug, but it was soon found prohibitively toxic for human use.\n\nArsanilic acid saw long use as a veterinary feed additive promoting growth and to prevent or treat dysentery in poultry and swine. In 2013, its approval by US government as an animal drug was voluntarily withdrawn by its sponsors. Still sometimes used in laboratories, arsanilic acid's legacy is principally through its influence on Paul Ehrlich in launching the chemotherapeutic approach to treating infectious diseases of humans.\n\nSynthesis was first reported in 1863 by Antoine Béchamp and became the basis of the Bechamp reaction. The process involves the reaction of aniline and arsenic acid via an electrophilic aromatic substitution reaction.\n\nArsanilic acid occurs as a zwitterion, HNCHAsOH, yet is typically represented with the non-zwitterionic formula HNCHAsOH.\n\nSince at least 2000 BC, arsenic and inorganic arsenical compounds were both medicine and poison. In the 19th century, inorganic arsenicals became the preeminent medicines, for instance Fowler's solution, against diverse diseases.\n\nIn 1859, in France, while developing aniline dyes, Antoine Béchamp synthesized a chemical that he identified, if incorrectly, as \"arsenic acid anilide\". Also biologist, physician, and pharmacist, Béchamp reported it 40 to 50 times less toxic as a drug than arsenic acid, and named it \"Atoxyl\", the first organic arsenical drug.\n\nIn 1905, in Britain, H W Thomas and A Breinl reported successful treatment of trypanosomiasis in animals by Atoxyl, and recommended high doses, given continuously, for human trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness). By 1907, more successful and less toxic than inorganic arsenicals, Atoxyl was expected to greatly aid expansion of British colonization of Africa and stem loss of cattle in Africa and India. (So socioeconomically valuable was colonial medicine that in 1922, German company Bayer offered to reveal the formula of \"Bayer 205\"—developed in 1917 and showing success on sleeping sickness in British and Belgian Africa—to the British government for return of German colonies lost via World War I.)\n\nSoon, however, Robert Koch found through an Atoxyl trial in German East Africa that some 2% of patients were blinded via atrophy of the optic nerve. In Germany, Paul Ehrlich inferred Béchamp's report of Atoxyl's structure incorrect, and Ehrlich with his chief organic chemist Alfred Bertheim found its correct structure—\"aminophenyl arsenic acid\" or \"aminophenyl arsonic acid\"—which suggested possible derivatives. Ehrlich asked Bertheim to synthesize two types of Atoxyl derivatives: arsenoxides and arsenobenzenes.\n\nEhrlich and Bertheim's 606th arsenobenzene, synthesized in 1907, was arsphenamine, found ineffective against trypanosomes, but found in 1909 by Ehrlich and bacteriologist Sahachiro Hata effective against the microorganism involved in syphilis, a disease roughly equivalent then to today's AIDS. The company Farbwerke Hoechst marketed arsphenamine as the drug Salvarsan, \"the arsenic that saves\". Its specificity of action fit Ehrlich's \"silver bullet\" or \"magic bullet\" paradigm of treatment, and Ehrlich won international fame while Salvarsan's success—the first particularly effective syphilis treatment—established the chemotherapy enterprise. In the late 1940s, Salvarsan was replaced in most regions by penicillin, yet organic arsenicals remained in use for trypanosomiasis.\n\nArsanilic acid gained use as a feed additive for poultry and swine to promote growth and prevent or treat dysentery. For poultry and swine, arsanilic acid was among four arsenical veterinary drugs, along with carbarsone, nitarsone, roxarsone, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In 2013, the FDA denied petitions by the Center for Food Safety and by the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy seeking revocation of approvals of the arsenical animal drugs, but the drugs' sponsors voluntarily requested the FDA to withdraw approvals of three, including arsanilic acid, leaving only nitarsone approved. In 2015, the FDA withdrew nitarsone's approval. Arsanilic acid is still used in the laboratory, for instance in recent modification of nanoparticles.\n"}
{"id": "1924210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924210", "title": "Linderhof Palace", "text": "Linderhof Palace\n\nLinderhof Palace () is a Schloss in Germany, in southwest Bavaria near Ettal Abbey. It is the smallest of the three palaces built by King Ludwig II of Bavaria and the only one which he lived to see completed.\n\nLudwig already knew the area around Linderhof from his youth when he had accompanied his father King Maximilian II of Bavaria on his hunting trips in the Bavarian Alps. When Ludwig II became King in 1864, he inherited the so-called \"Königshäuschen\" from his father, and in 1869 began enlarging the building. In 1874, he decided to tear down the Königshäuschen and rebuild it on its present-day location in the park. At the same time three new rooms and the staircase were added to the remaining U-shaped complex, and the previous wooden exterior was clad with stone façades. The building was designed in the style of the second rococo-period. Between 1863 and 1886, a total of 8,460,937 marks was spent constructing Linderhof.\n\nAlthough Linderhof is much smaller than Versailles, it is evident that the palace of the French Sun-King Louis XIV (who was an idol for Ludwig) was its inspiration. The staircase, for example, is a reduction of the famous Ambassador's staircase in Versailles, which would be copied in full in Herrenchiemsee. Stylistically, however, the building and its decor take their cues from the mid-18th century Rococo of Louis XV, and the small palace in the Graswang was more directly based on that king's Petit Trianon on the Versailles grounds. The symbol of the sun that can be found everywhere in the decoration of the rooms represents the French notion of absolutism that, for Ludwig, was the perfect incorporation of his ideal of a God-given monarchy with total royal power. Such a monarchy could no longer be realised in Europe in the second half of the nineteenth century.\nThe bedroom was important to the ceremonial life of an absolute monarch; Louis XIV of France used to give his first (lever) and last audience (coucher) of the day in his bedchamber. In imitation of Versailles, the bedroom is the largest chamber of Linderhof Palace. By facing north, however, the Linderhof bedroom inverts the symbolism of its Versailles counterpart, showing Ludwig's self-image as a \"Night-King.\"\n\nThe location of the palace near Ettal Abbey again presents another interesting point. Because of its architecture Ludwig saw the church of the monastery as the room where the holy grail was preserved. This fact connects the idea of a baroque palace to the one of a \"medieval\" castle such as Neuschwanstein and reminds of the operas of Richard Wagner whose patron Ludwig was. Ludwig was also not unaware that the abbey had been founded by his ancestor and namesake, Emperor Ludwig IV.\n\nLinderhof, in comparison to other palaces, has a rather private atmosphere. In fact, there are only four rooms that have a real function.\n\nThis room was used by the king as some kind of living room. He enjoyed sitting in the niche, sometimes reading there the whole night. Because Ludwig II used to sleep in the daytime and stay awake in the night, the mirrors created an unimaginable effect for him when they reflected the light of the candles a thousand times. The parallel placement of some mirrors evoke the illusion of a never ending avenue.\n\n\"Appointments:\"\n\nThe middle table has a top with lapis-lazuli, amethyst and chalcedony inlay work and shows the Bavarian coat of arms in glass mosaic.\n\nA carpet made of ostrich plumes.\n\nAn ivory candelabra in the alcove with 16 branches.\n\nTwo mantelpieces clad with lapis-lazuli and decorated with gilded bronze ornaments.\n\nThe two tapestry chambers are almost identical and have no specific function. The western one is sometimes called \"Music Room\" because of the aeolodion (an instrument combining piano and harmonium) in it. Only the curtains and the coverings on the furniture are real products of the Parisian Gobelin Manufactory. The scenes on the walls are painted on rough canvas in order to imitate real tapestries.\n\nThe audience chamber is located to the west of the palace and is flanked by the yellow and lilac cabinets. The cabinets were only used as antechambers to the larger rooms. Ludwig II never used this room to hold an audience. This would have been against the private character of Linderhof and the chamber would have been much too small for it. He rather used it as a study where he thought about new building projects. That there \"is\" an audience chamber in Linderhof, however, reminds us of the demand of the king on an absolute monarchy.\n\n\"Appointments:\"\n\nTwo round tables with malachite tops, gift of Grand Duchess Maria Alexandrovna of Russia to King Ludwig II.\n\nThrone baldachin with ostrich feather bunches (as an oriental symbol of royal power).\n\nThis room is located to the east and is flanked by the pink and blue cabinets. The pink cabinet, unlike the other cabinets, had a real function. The king used it as a robing room. The dining room is famous for its disappearing dumb-waiter called \"Tischlein deck dich\". This table was installed so that Ludwig could dine alone here. Yet the staff had to lay the table for at least four persons because it is said that the king used to talk to imaginary people like Louis XV, Mme de Pompadour or Marie Antoinette while he was eating. For Ludwig II enjoyed the company of those people and admired them. You can find portraits of them in the cabinets, and scenes of their lives everywhere in the palace's rooms.\n\n\"Appointments:\"\n\nMeissen porcelain centrepiece with china flowers.\n\nThe model for this room was not Louis XIV's bedchamber in Versailles but the bedroom of the Rich Rooms in Munich Residence. This room was completely rebuilt in 1884 and could not be totally finished until the king's death two years later.\nThe position of the bed itself on steps in the alcove that is closed off by a gilded balustrade gives it the appearance of an altar and thereby glorifies Ludwig II as he slept during the day.\n\n\"Appointments:\"\n\nA glass candelabra with 108 candles.\n\nTwo console tables of Meissen porcelain (which was the king's favorite china)\n\nThe gardens surrounding Linderhof Palace are considered one of the most beautiful creations of historicist garden design, designed by Court Garden Director Carl von Effner. The park combines elements of Renaissance and Baroque formal gardens with landscaped sections that are similar to the English landscape garden.\n\nDeriving from the romantic image of animated nature Ludwig was fascinated by trees. For this reason a tall, 300-year-old linden tree was allowed to remain in the formal gardens although disturbing its symmetry. Historic pictures show a seat in it, where Ludwig used to take his \"breakfast\" at sunset hidden from view amongst the branches. Contrary to common understanding the tree did not give the palace its name. It came from a family called \"Linder\" that used to cultivate the farm (in German \"Hof\" = farm) that over centuries had been in the place where now Linderhof palace is.\n\nThe palace is surrounded by formal gardens that are subdivided into five sections that are decorated with allegoric sculptures of the continents, the seasons and the elements:\n\nThe northern part is characterized by a cascade of thirty marble steps. The bottom end of the cascade is formed by the Neptune fountain and at the top there is a Music Pavilion.\n\nThe centre of the western parterre is formed by basin with the gilt figure of \"Fama\". In the west there is a pavilion with the bust of Louis XIV. In front of it you see a fountain with the gilt sculpture \"Amor with dolphins\". The garden is decorated with four majolica vases.\n\nThe crowning of the eastern parterre is a wooden pavilion containing the bust of Louis XVI. Twenty-four steps below it there is a fountain basin with a gilt sculpture \"Amor shooting an arrow\". A sculpture of \"Venus and Adonis\" is placed between the basin and the palace.\n\nThe water parterre in front of the palace is dominated by a large basin with the gilt fountain group \"Flora and puttos\". The fountain's water jet itself is nearly 25 meters high.\n\nThe terrace gardens form the southern part of the park and correspond to the cascade in the north. On the landing of the first flight there is the \"Naiad fountain\" consisting of three basins and the sculptures of water nymphs. In the middle arch of the niche you see the bust of Marie Antoinette of France. These gardens are crowned by a round temple with a statue of Venus formed after a painting by Antoine Watteau (The Embarkation for Cythera).\n\nThe landscape garden covers an area of about 50 hectares (125 acres) and is perfectly integrated in the surrounding natural alpine landscape. There are several buildings of different appearance located in the park.\n\nThe building is wholly artificial and was built for the king as an illustration of the First Act of Wagner's \"Tannhäuser\". Ludwig liked to be rowed over the lake in his golden swan-boat but at the same time he wanted his own blue grotto of Capri. Therefore, 24 dynamos had been installed and so already in the time of Ludwig II it was possible to illuminate the grotto in changing colours. The grotto is closed to visitors through 2024 for reconstruction and restoration.\n\nThis hut was inspired by Richard Wagner's directions for the First Act of the \"Die Walküre\". Ludwig used to celebrate Germanic feasts in this house.\n\n\nLudwig came here for contemplation every year on Good Friday. For this day he wanted a flowering meadow. If there was no such meadow because there was still snow lying, the garden director had to plant one for the king.\n\n\"These three structures, the \"Venus Grotto\", \"Hunding's Hut\" and \"Gurnemanz Hermitage\" remind us another time of the operas of Richard Wagner. But besides that and the baroque architecture Ludwig was also interested in the oriental world.\"\n\n\nThis building was designed by the Berliner architect Karl von Diebitsch for the International Exhibition in Paris 1867. Ludwig II wanted to buy it but was forestalled by the railroad king Bethel Henry Strousberg. Ludwig bought the pavilion after the bankruptcy of Strousberg.\nThe most notable piece of furniture of this building is the peacock throne.\n\nThis house was actually built in Morocco for the International Exhibition in Vienna 1873. The king bought it in 1878 and redecorated it in a more royal way.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924211", "title": "Deutsches Forschungsnetz", "text": "Deutsches Forschungsnetz\n\nDeutsches Forschungsnetz (\"German Research Network\"), usually abbreviated to DFN, is the German national research and education network (NREN) used for academic and research purposes. It is managed by the scientific community organized in the voluntary Association to Promote a German Education and Research Network (Verein zur Förderung eines Deutschen Forschungsnetzes e.V.) which was founded in 1984 by universities, non-university research institutions and research-oriented companies to stimulate computerized communication in Germany.\n\nDFN's \"super core\" backbone X-WiN network points of presence are - for example - based in Erlangen, Frankfurt, Hannover and Potsdam with more than 70 locations and can route up to 1TBit/s with over 10000 km of dedicated fibre connections.\n\nAll upstream connections (to networks such as GÉANT2 (in Frankfurt), DECIX) are 10G-based and are implemented at the super core. All other routers on the network are Cisco 7609-based and always linked to two other network routers. Today connections up to 200GBit are possible\n\nWiN is short for Wissenschaftsnetz (\"science network\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924212", "title": "Zenón Noriega Agüero", "text": "Zenón Noriega Agüero\n\nZenón Noriega Agüero (July 12, 1900 – May 7, 1957) was a Peruvian army general who briefly served as the Interim President of Peru through a military junta for two months in 1950.\n\nNoriega was born in Cajamarca in 1900 as the son of Wenceslao Noriega and María del Carmen Agüero. He served as Manuel A. Odría's deputy since Odría took power in a military coup in 1948. On June 1, 1950, Odría formally stepped down as president in order to pursue his candidacy in a presidential election in which he would be the only candidate. Noriega became president of the Junta until July 28, when Odría resumed power. Political historians concede that Noriega did not rule on his own, but followed Odría's commands. He was immediately appointed Prime Minister by Odría, and served in that position until August 1954.\n\nAlready enshrined as constitutional president Odría after a questionable election, Noriega continued to serve as Minister of War and President of the Council of Ministers. He was promoted to Major General in 1953. Shortly after he was accused of organizing a plot to depose Odría, he was sent into exile aboard one of the navy ships (August 1954). It was said the conspiracy involved important people, being a symptom of the degree of decomposition in the Odriist regime.\n\nNoriega went to Argentina, where he was received by President Juan Domingo Perón. Two years later he returned to Peru and retired to private life. He died in 1957.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924218", "title": "Haim Laskov", "text": "Haim Laskov\n\nHaim Laskov (; born 1919, Barysaw, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic – 8 December 1982) was an Israeli public figure and the fifth Chief of Staff of the Israel Defense Forces.\n\nHaim Laskov was born in Barysaw in the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic (present-day Belarus). He immigrated to Palestine with his family in 1925. The family settled in Haifa, where they lived in dire poverty.\n\nLaskov joined the Haganah as a teenager, and served in various units, including Orde Wingate's Special Night Squads. He also served as a personal messenger for Yaakov Dori, who would later become the first Chief of Staff. In 1940, Laskov joined the British Army so that he could participate in World War II. He served in various capacities, and was a commander of the Jewish Brigade which saw action on the Italian front, eventually reaching the rank of major. After the war, he remained in Europe to participate in the Aliyah Bet illegal immigration effort to bring refugee Jews to Palestine. He also took part in various illicit acts of vengeance against the Nazis and their collaborators. Upon eventually returning to Palestine, he rejoined the Haganah, while also working as chief of security for the electric company.\n\nWhen Israel's War of Independence erupted in 1948, Laskov assumed responsibility for preparing the framework in which new recruits would be trained. He organized the first officers' course, and formed the graduates into a brigade that fought at Latrun during Operation Nahshon. One month later, in May 1948, he returned to Latrun as commander of Israel's first armored battalion, which fought alongside the 7th Brigade. He commanded the entire brigade during Operation Dekel and Operation Hiram, and participated in the many battles over control of the Galilee. In July, he finally returned to training new recruits, now with the rank of major general.\n\nAlthough he had never been a pilot, Laskov was appointed commander of the Israeli Air Force in 1951. During his tenure, the air force prepared to incorporate its first jet fighter, the Meteor. Upon completing his tenure in 1953, Laskov left the army to study philosophy, economics, and political science (PPE) in the United Kingdom. He also obtained additional military training there.\n\nIn 1955, he returned to Israel, where he was appointed Deputy Chief of the General Staff and Senior Staff Officer, however, after a series of professional disputes with Moshe Dayan, he was demoted to Commander of the Armored Corps. During the 1956 Sinai Campaign, he commanded the 77th Division, which operated on the Rafah–el-Arish–Kantara front. Upon the death of Asaf Simchoni, Chief of the Southern Command, in a plane crash, Laskov assumed his position, and oversaw the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Sinai Peninsula.\n\nIn 1958, Laskov was appointed Chief of General Staff, replacing Moshe Dayan. His appointment took place against the backdrop of the unification of Egypt and Syria as the United Arab Republic on January 31 of that year and the potential threat this posed to the security of Israel. Just two months later, on March 30, Israel and Syria exchanged heavy artillery fire across the Sea of Galilee. The clashes lasted for two days, until a ceasefire was finally achieved.\n\nOn April 24, Laskov presided over a huge military parade in Jerusalem to mark the tenth anniversary of Israel's independence. This took place despite warnings by Jordan that such a parade would be considered an act of aggression. During the parade, Laskov displayed Israel's latest military hardware, including weapons captured from Egypt in the Sinai and from Syria during clashes in the Hula Valley.\n\nOn November 6, Syria resumed its artillery bombardment of the Galilee, while Israeli workers were involved in a massive project draining Lake Huleh to obtain more agricultural land for the country. Under Laskov's orders, the IDF returned fire.\n\nOne of the great scandals that occurred during Laskov's tenure, was a surprise exercise to test the mobilization of the reserves, on April 1, 1959. Known as the \"Night of the Ducks\" (one of the coded call-up signals broadcast over the radio was \"Water Fowl\"), the event caused panic throughout the country, and put the armies of the neighboring Arab states on high alert. A commission of inquiry which investigated the matter found Major General Meir Zorea, Senior Staff Officer, and Major General Yehoshafat Harkabi, Chief of Military Intelligence, responsible for the fiasco, and the two resigned their posts.\n\nTensions between Israel and Syria continued over the following months. On January 31, Israel attacked the Syrian village of Tawfik, overlooking the Sea of Galilee, claiming that it had been used by the Syrian army to bombard Israeli villages in the Galilee. Three Israeli soldiers were killed in the operation. The raid led to the outbreak of the Rotem Crisis, during which Egypt had deployed its armed forces on Israel's undefended southern border, catching Israel off guard. On March 9, Egyptian forces started to withdraw. Laskov later described the crisis as the most dramatic of his tenure as IDF Chief of the General Staff.\n\nLaskov resigned his position of Chief of General Staff in 1961 after a relatively peaceful tenure, marred only by clashes with the Syrians. During his term, he focused on building the strength of the IDF: Israel acquired its first submarine and its Super Mystère jets. Just before he left office, prime minister David Ben-Gurion also announced that the country had built a nuclear reactor outside the desert town of Dimona. The reactor, he claimed, was built for peaceful purposes.\n\nLaskov established Israel's National Defense College to promote IDF generals' fluency in strategic concepts.\n\nIn 1961, Laskov was appointed director general of the Ports Authority, and it was during his tenure that the port of Ashdod, now Israel's major port, was constructed. He also continued to write military training manuals and submitted numerous articles to military journals. In 1972, Laskov became the country's first Soldier's Ombudsman, a post he held for ten years, until his death. After the Yom Kippur War in 1973, he served on the Agranat Commission, which investigated the fiascos that led to the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924219", "title": "Emperor: Battle for Dune", "text": "Emperor: Battle for Dune\n\nEmperor: Battle for Dune is a \"Dune\" video game, released by Westwood Studios on June 12, 2001. It is based in Frank Herbert's science fiction \"Dune\" universe. It is the third real-time strategy game set in the \"Dune\" universe, following its predecessors, \"Dune II\" and \"Dune 2000\". While \"Dune II\" was a totally distinct story to that of \"Dune\", and \"Dune 2000\" was a remake of \"Dune II\", \"Emperor\" is a direct sequel to the previous games. In particular, it is a sequel to \"Dune 2000\", carrying on from where it left off, with several of the characters and actors returning. Like \"Dune 2000\" and many of the other Westwood games that came before it, \"Emperor\" features cut scenes filmed with live actors.\n\n\"Emperor\" is set shortly after \"Dune 2000\". Emperor Corrino has been killed by his concubine, Lady Elara, and the Landsraad has been thrown into chaos.\n\nThe Spacing Guild has presented the three remaining Houses (the same as those in the previous games: House Atreides, House Harkonnen and House Ordos) with a unique challenge: a war of assassins on the planet Arrakis. Whichever House wins the war will become the new leader of the Landsraad, and its leader the new Padishah Emperor, Emperor of the Known Universe.\n\nEventually, it becomes clear during the campaign that the Tleilaxu are scouring Arrakis with hidden motives, with various probes spotted collecting flesh samples from dead sandworms. After the last battle with any one of the opponent Houses on their home planet, the Spacing Guild (Guild of Navigators) leaves the victorious House stranded on the enemies' conquered homeworld, attempting to control Arrakis with House Tleilaxu by genetically engineering an Emperor Worm with immense psychic powers empowered by Lady Elara. They also release a mind influencing drug in all the remaining forces water supply on Arrakis to make them slaves under the Guild. It then becomes clear that a last-ditch attempt must be made back on Arrakis to destroy the Emperor Worm before he awakes, by using the Smugglers Guild to get back to Arrakis. Eventually the player destroys the Emperor Worm, and the Guild's plan is foiled. The victorious house then regains control of Arrakis and the spice melange and proclaims their side's leader Emperor of Dune.\n\nWhile each campaign has the story ultimately culminating up to the battle with the Emperor Worm, the three campaigns have subplots revolving around each faction's intents to conquer Arrakis.\n\nHouse Atreides' campaign involves regaining the trust of the Fremen, with whom they have had an uneasy relationship due to unspecified past events. Many of the starting missions revolve around forming an alliance with the Fremen. Later on in the campaign, a party of Fremen diplomats are sent to Caladan, where they and the Duke Achillus are under attack by Tleilaxu soldiers. This attack is eventually thwarted and the Fremen pledge their allegiance to House Atreides. The general benevolence of House Atreides is apparent in their motivation for each map's campaign and they have little to no ulterior motives in lending assistance to any of the factions on Arrakis.\n\nHouse Harkonnen's campaign revolves around the ailing Baron Rakan and his two sons, Gunseng and Copec, who both vie to take the Baron's place upon his death. Copec and Gunseng are at one another's throats, and compete for the Baron's favor as the latter's days grow shorter. Gunseng eventually goes to Arrakis to oversee the spice mining. Copec grows impatient, however, and poisons Rakan's food. Copec assumes the title, and goes to Arrakis to have his brother swear allegiance to his new baron. Believing that Copec has usurped the title, Gunseng openly rebels against him. The player character chooses to either side with Gunseng or Copec, and both opposing factions battle on Giedi Prime. Depending on who emerges victorious, the game will then feature Gunseng or Copec as the reigning baron of House Harkonnen.\n\nHouse Ordos' campaign revolves around their ability to create gholas. The house eventually creates a ghola of the deceased Emperor Shaddam Corrino, who will serve as a puppet emperor subservient to House Ordos. Ordos motives are typically insidious in that they attempt to manipulate many of the subhouses (Fremen, Sardaukar, Smugglers) into conflict with the major houses they are fighting, using gholas and other forms of treachery to thwart any attempts at alliance among their enemies and secure alliances for House Ordos. The Ordos are led by the Executrix, four beings that share a single mind and communicate only through a creature known as the \"Speaker\". The Ordos are calculated in their thinking, almost machine-like. Advising the \"Commander\" (player) is the equally cold female Mentat Roma Atani.\n\nThere also subplots within subhouses and factions on Arrakis. Ix and the Tleilaxu have made it clear that that they cannot be united, and force the player to choose one or the other, though it is possible to have the support of two. A Sardaukar coffin containing a trooper in suspended animation can sometimes be found in the battlefield. These troopers usually ally themselves with the faction that awakens them.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" reviewed the game, saying it had \"nice graphics, fun cinematics, some interesting units, and a fun interactive campaign map.\" However, they also panned it for having \"outdated graphics, iffy AI and pathfinding, crummy multiplayer, and an overwhelming sense of deja vu\" as well as a lack of then standard control features in similar RTS games.\n\nJason Samuel reviewed the PC version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Fans who can't get enough of Westwood's particular brand of RTS or anyone who has missed a Westwood title from the past three or so years will enjoy \"Emperor\". Everyone else needs to decide if they want more of what they've seen before.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1924225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924225", "title": "The Shrinking Violets", "text": "The Shrinking Violets\n\nThe Shrinking Violets was a band from Sydney, Australia (1987–1990). They recorded with Phantom Records\n\nMembers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924227", "title": "Ethical arguments regarding torture", "text": "Ethical arguments regarding torture\n\nEthical arguments have arisen regarding torture, and its debated value to society. Despite worldwide condemnation and the existence of treaty provisions that forbid it, some countries still use it. The ethical assertion that torture is a tool is at question.\n\nThe basic ethical debate is often presented as a matter of deontological versus utilitarian viewpoint. A utilitarian thinker may believe, when the overall outcome of lives saved due to torture are positive, torture can be justified; the intended outcome of an action is held as the primary factor in determining its merit or morality. The opposite view is the deontological, from Greek \"deon\" (duty), which proposes general rules and values that are to be respected regardless of outcome. However, if the outcome of policies allowing torture are uncertain (or if the outcome can not be definitely traced back to the use of torture) then there can be a utilitarian view that torture is wrong (see issues related to the ends justifying the means in analysis of the ticking time bomb scenario).\n\nIt has been suggested that one of the reasons torture endures is that torture indeed works in some instances to extract information/confession if those who are being tortured are indeed guilty. Richard Posner, a highly influential judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, argued that \"If torture is the only means of obtaining the information necessary to prevent the detonation of a nuclear bomb in Times Square, torture should be used—and will be used—to obtain the information. ... No one who doubts that this is the case should be in a position of responsibility.\" However, some experienced intelligence officers have more recently come forward claiming that not only does torture not work, it can result in false information since people undergoing torture will say anything just to make the torture stop. Some people also point to neuroscience to demonstrate that torture may further impair a person's ability to tell the truth.\n\nA utilitarian argument against torture is that the majority of tortures are employed not as a method of extracting information, but as a method of terrorizing and subjugating the population, enabling state forces to dispense with ordinary means of establishing innocence or guilt and with the whole legal apparatus altogether. Therefore, it is better that a few individuals be killed by bombers than a much greater number—possibly thousands of innocent people—be tortured and murdered and legal and constitutional provisions destroyed. During the investigation of Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro's kidnapping, General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa reportedly responded to a member of the security services who suggested torture against a suspect, \"Italy can survive the loss of Aldo Moro. It would not survive the introduction of torture.\"\n\nHistorically, torture has been reviled as an idea, yet employed as a tool and defended by its wielders, often in direct contradiction to their own averred beliefs. Judicial torture was a common feature of the legal systems of many countries including all civil law countries in Europe until the Enlightenment era. A papal bull forbade the practice of torture in Roman Catholic countries in 1816. This was part of ancient Greek and Roman law theory that remained valid in Europe. Roman law assumed, for example, that slaves would not tell the truth in a legal court as they were always vulnerable to threats from their owners. Their testimony could only be of value if it were extracted by a greater fear of torture. Legal scholars were well aware of the problems of false testimony produced by the threat of torture. In theory torture was not meant to produce a confession as such, but rather details of the crime or crime scene which only the guilty party would know.\n\nThe Spanish Inquisition is probably the most infamous example in which torture was used to extract information regarding allegations of heresy. In early modern times under certain conditions, torture was used in England. For example, the confession of Marc Smeaton at the trial of Anne Boleyn was presented in written form only, either to hide from the court that Smeaton had been tortured on the rack for four hours, or because Thomas Cromwell was worried that he would recant his confession if cross-examined. When Guy Fawkes was arrested for his role in the Gunpowder Plot of 1605 he was tortured until he revealed all he knew about the plot. This was not so much to extract a confession, which was not needed to prove his guilt, but to extract from him the names of his fellow conspirators. By this time torture was not routine in England and a special warrant from King James I was needed before he could be tortured. The wording of the warrant shows some concerns for humanitarian considerations; the severity of the methods of interrogation were to be increased gradually until the interrogators were sure that Fawkes had told all he knew. In the end this did not help Fawkes much as he was broken on the only rack in England, which was in the Tower of London. Torture was abolished in England around 1640 (except \"peine forte et dure\", whose aim was to force a defendant not to confess but to plead, which was abolished in 1772).\n\nThe use of torture in Europe came under attack during the Enlightenment. Cesare Beccaria's \"On Crimes and Punishments\" (1764) denounced the use of torture as cruel and contrary to reason. The French Revolution abolished the use of torture in France and the French Armies carried abolition to most of the rest of Europe. The last European jurisdictions to abolish legal torture were Portugal (1828) and the canton of Glarus in Switzerland (1851).\n\nUnder codified legal systems such as France, torture was superseded with a legal system that is highly dependent on investigating magistrates and the confession remains \"The Queen of Proofs\". Such magistrates are often under pressure to produce results. It is alleged that in many cases police violence towards suspects has been ignored by the magistrates. In the adversarial system of common law used throughout the English-speaking world, the experience is a different one. As the two parties have to convince a jury whether the defendant in a case is guilty or innocent of a crime, if the defence can persuade a jury that reasonable doubt exists over the credibility of a confession, then the jury is likely to disregard the confession. If the defence can show that the confession was made under such duress that most people would make such a confession, then the jury is likely to question the confession's credibility. Usually the more duress that can be shown to have been used by law enforcement by the defence, the less weight most juries will place on confessions. In Britain, partly to protect the individual against police brutality and partly to make confessions credible to a jury, all interviews with a suspect are audio taped on a machine which make two simultaneous copies, one for the police and one for the defendant. In Northern Ireland, where society is more polarised than in the rest of the United Kingdom, which means that allegations of police brutality are perceived by sections of the community to carry more credence, interviews are video taped.\n\nIt has been alleged that in certain circumstances torture, even though it is illegal, may have been used by some European countries. In \"anti-terrorist\" campaigns where information is needed for intelligence purposes, and not to obtain a confession for use in court, there is a temptation by the security forces, whether authorised by governments or not, to extract intelligence from alleged terrorists using any means available including the use of torture. Where there is a time component to a crime, for example in a kidnapping case, there is also a temptation for the police to try to extract information by methods which would make the evidence inadmissible in court.\n\nSome scholars have argued that the need for information outweighs the moral and ethical arguments against torture.\n\nYasmin Alibhai-Brown, in an opinion article published in \"The Independent\" on 23 May 2005, wrote:\nTwo academics at Deakin University in Victoria, Australia, Professor Mirko Bagaric, a Croatian-born Australian based author and lawyer, who is the head of Deakin University's Law School, and a fellow Deakin law lecturer, Julie Clarke, published a paper in the \"University of San Francisco Law Review\" arguing that when many lives are in imminent danger, \"all forms of harm\" may be inflicted on a suspect, even if this might result in \"annihilation\". The reasoning behind the proposal to legalise torture is that:\n\nIt was observed that Bagaric \"was not the author of what he wrote, all he did was reintroducing Alan M. Dershowitz' thesis, Sharon’s [Israeli] government legal adviser and the theorist of the legal torture\".\n\nIt was also observed that Bagaric has written many pieces calling for men to be sentenced more than women for the same crime. This calls into question his ability to deal impartially with regard to crime and torture, which is mainly committed against men.\n\nWhen reviewing Alan Dershowitz's book \"Why Terrorism Works: Understanding the Threat, Responding to the Challenge\", Richard Posner, a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, wrote:\n\nOn December 20, 2005, Albert Mohler, president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, addressed the problem of whether torture should be used by American military forces in order to gain important information from terrorist suspects. Although he spoke out against any form of legal codification, he did state the following:\n\nMany experts argue that torture is an unreliable means of obtaining useful information. However, many states have used torture not to extract information, but as a means of terrorising their populations or specific communities. Frantz Fanon, in \"The Wretched of the Earth\", reports the French in Algeria using \"preventative torture\" on entirely innocent people to stop them doing anything in future.\n\nIn most countries torture is illegal, and this being so, outside the normal framework for establishing guilt or innocence. Therefore, an abnormally large proportion of torture victims are either innocent (apart from membership of target communities) or of mistaken identity. For example, Khalid el-Masri, an innocent German citizen, was kidnapped and tortured, having been mistaken for Al-Qaida chief Khalid al-Masri. The Red Cross in Iraq estimated that 80% of detainees at Abu Ghraib were the \"wrong people\".\n\nIn response to the article by Professor Bagaric and Mrs Clarke, Amnesty International spokeswoman Nicole Bieske, who is also a lawyer, was stunned by the idea of regulating torture: \"It's astonishing and appalling that somebody would hold this opinion in relation to such a fundamental issue as torture, and to be justifying it on moral as well as pragmatic grounds\". Professor Bagaric and Mrs Clarke submitted the paper to an American law journal because of \"the kind of emotive comments that I've had here in Australia, saying that this view is horrendous, unthinking, and irresponsible\".\n\nJoe Navarro, one of the F.B.I.’s top experts in questioning techniques, told The New Yorker, \"Only a psychopath can torture and be unaffected. You don't want people like that in your organization. They are untrustworthy, and tend to have grotesque other problems.\"\n\nToleration of torture and arbitrary detention has been likened to a \"cancer of democracy\" in a book of the same title by Pierre Vidal-Naquet, which begins to undermine all other aspects of a state's legitimacy. On the 20th anniversary of the coming into force of the United Nations Convention against Torture, Philip Hensher writes \"Civilization is at once compromised if, in defense of other freedoms, it decides to regress, to accept the possibility of torture as it is seen in the movies.\"\n\nIn law enforcement, one perceived argument is the necessity of force to extract information from a suspect when regular interrogation yields no results and time is of the essence, as can be seen in the most frequently cited theoretical example is the \"ticking time bomb\" scenario, where a known terrorist has planted a nuclear bomb. In such circumstances, it has been argued, that not to use torture would be wrong, and by others that using torture would change society in a manner which would be worse.\n\nThe obvious rebuttal to this stance is that no such scenario has ever existed. In addition, those situations resembling such a case were resolved without the need to torture any suspect. Furthermore, it is asked whether torture would be limited to suspects, or whether one could torture the family and friends of this detainee to make him compliant.\n\nSupporters cite cases where torture has worked: In the case of Magnus Gäfgen, who was suspected of kidnapping 11-year-old Jakob von Metzler and arrested in October 2002 by German police, police surveillance had observed Gäfgen pick up a €1 million ransom demanded from the von Metzler family and proceed to go on a spending spree. After the ransom was paid, the boy was not released. Fearing for the boy's safety Frankfurt's deputy police chief, Wolfgang Daschner, had Gäfgen arrested and when he would not talk threatened to cause Gäfgen severe pain. Gäfgen told police where he had hidden von Metzler's body. In this case torture was threatened, but not used, to extract information that, in other circumstances, could have saved a boy's life. The ethical question is whether this can ever be justified. Wolfgang Daschner felt that in the circumstances it was justified. German Chancellor Merkel, in an interview on January 9, 2006 in reference to the Metzler case stated \"The public debate showed that the overwhelming majority of citizens believed that even in such a case, the end does not justify the means. That is also my position.\"\n\nOpponents, on the other hand, cite cases of rampant abuse: for example, in Chile and Argentina in the 1970s and 1980s thousands of people \"disappeared\" and were tortured or killed or both.\n\nBeyond that, another reason is that torture fails to elicit the expected information because the subject is saying anything interrogators want to hear to stop the ordeal (or deliberately lies to waste the interrogators' time and make it more likely the bomb will go off), or worse: the detainee is innocent. By adopting a \"the ends justifies the means\" approach this would allow nine innocent people to be tortured as long as the tenth offered a full confession.\n\nIt has been estimated that as few as two dozen of the 600 detainees at Guantanamo had any potential intelligence value, even if it could be obtained from them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924233", "title": "Bruno Buchberger", "text": "Bruno Buchberger\n\nBruno Buchberger (born October 22, 1942) is Professor of Computer Mathematics at Johannes Kepler University in Linz, Austria. In his 1965 Ph.D. thesis, he created the theory of Gröbner bases, and has developed this theory throughout his career. He named these objects after his advisor Wolfgang Gröbner. Since 1995, he has been active in the Theorema project at the University of Linz.\n\nIn 1987 Buchberger founded and chaired the Research Institute for Symbolic Computation (RISC) at Johannes Kepler University. In 1985 he started the Journal of Symbolic Computation, which has now become the premier publication in the field of computer algebra.\n\nBuchberger also conceived Softwarepark Hagenberg in 1989 and since then has been directing the expansion of this Austrian technology park for software.\n\nIn 2014 he became a member of the \"Global Digital Mathematical Library Working Group\" of the IMU.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924237", "title": "Westbourne Park", "text": "Westbourne Park\n\nWestbourne Park may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1924239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924239", "title": "Rolfes Robert Reginald Dhlomo", "text": "Rolfes Robert Reginald Dhlomo\n\nRolfes Robert Reginald Dhlomo (1906–1971) was a South African journalist, novelist and historian born in Siyamu, Edendale in the province of KwaZulu. His novella \"An African Tragedy\", published in 1928, was the first fiction work written by a black South African to appear in book form. Together with his brother Herbert, he worked as a journalist and editor for the journals \"Bantu World\" and \"Ilanga laseNatali\". He wrote his later novels, in isiZulu.\n\nHe wrote five historical novels about Zulu kings, which have been used extensively as school readers on South African history during apartheid, up until now.\n\nHis \"Selected Short Stories\" was originally published in 1975 by the Institute for the Study of English in Africa. A revised edition was published in South Africa by the Institute for the Study of English in Africa, Rhodes University, in 1996 .\n\n"}
{"id": "1924243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924243", "title": "Key Skills Qualification", "text": "Key Skills Qualification\n\nThe Key Skills Qualification is a frequently required component of 14-20 education in England, Northern Ireland and Wales. The aim of Key Skills is to encourage learners to develop and demonstrate their skills as well as learn how to select and apply skills in ways that are appropriate to their particular context.\n\nIt is generally available in secondary schools (alongside GCSEs, A-levels or other qualifications), Further Education colleges (alongside NVQ, as part of Apprenticeship training or other equivalent vocational or academic courses) and other places of learning (sometimes alongside other qualifications and sometimes independently). The qualifications can be taken at levels 1-4.\n\nThe Department for Children, Schools and Families in England and the Department for Children, Education, Lifelong Learning and Skills in Wales define Key Skills as \"a range of essential skills that underpin success in education, employment, lifelong learning and personal development\". The DfES website states that the Key Skills Qualification is offered as a response to concern from employers about lack of essential skills in young recruits and as part of the response to the 1996 Dearing Report. Key Skills qualifications at levels 2-4 attract UCAS Tariff points for University admissions. The UCAS tariff is a points system used to report achievement for entry to higher education (HE) in a numerical format.\n\nKey Skills Qualifications are offered in six areas:\n\nThe first three Key Skills are sometimes referred to as the 'main' Key Skills. They incorporate the basic skills of literacy and numeracy. The remaining three are often referred to as the 'wider' or 'soft' Key Skills.\n\nAssessment arrangements for Key Skills vary between England, Wales and Northern Ireland (see below). Key Skills may be examined in a variety of ways including internal, external or set tasks. Internal assessment means the production of a portfolio of work demonstrating satisfaction of the Key Skills targets. The Internal assessment (portfolio) must be internally verified and externally moderated. External assessment consists of a test or examination in the subject, often in formal examination conditions. Set tasks are similar to portfolios without the flexibility of the latter.\n\nThe Qualifications are offered over four levels: level one, two, three and four. These levels correspond to the levels used for other qualifications within the national qualifications framework. Progression to a higher level is characterised by:\n- greater autonomy from the individual in deciding how they will apply their skills to suit different tasks and problems\n- greater demands made by the situation in which the skills are applied\n- use of a wider range and more complex techniques.\n\nKey Skills Level 1 helps candidates to develop the basic skills that are important for key skills competence, and recognises their ability to apply these skills in meeting given purposes within routine situations. Level 1 is broadly related in terms of level of demand, to GCSE grades D-G or National Curriculum level 5.\n\nKey Skills Level 2 builds on level 1 by requiring candidates to extend their basic skills. It recognises their ability to take responsibility for some decisions about how they select and apply these skills to meet the demands of largely straightforward tasks. Level 2 can be broadly related, in terms of level of demand, to GCSE grades A*–C.\n\nKey Skills Level 3 marks a shift from straightforward tasks to being capable of responding to the demands of more complex activities. Candidates need to demonstrate more explicit reasoning ability and personal responsibility in making decisions about how tasks are organised. Level 3 can be broadly related, in terms of level of demand, to an A grade at A level\n\nThe higher levels, levels 4 and 5, describe those skills relevant to technical and professional situations and higher level study.\n\nKey Skills Level 4 requires candidates to have substantial autonomy and responsibility for managing activities and for identifying how the key skills relate to their situation. It recognises ability to develop a strategy for using key skills over an extended period of time, monitor and critically reflect on progress and adapt strategy, as necessary, to achieve the quality of outcomes required.\n\nAt Key Skill Level 5, there is a single standard (personal skills development). This standard requires candidates to apply their key skills in communication, working with others and problem solving, in an integrated way, in order to improve their own learning and performance in managing professionally challenging work.\n\nSource: QCA (Qualifications and Curriculum Authority) The Key Skills Qualifications Standards and Guidance, 2004.\n\nAccording to the UK National Statistics office, up to September 2006, almost 2.2 million Key Skills qualifications had been awarded. There were 692 thousand awards of Key Skills qualifications in 2005/06 alone. 522 thousand of all Key Skills qualifications were for main Key Skills, up 19 per cent on the previous year. 170 thousand of all Key Skills qualifications were for wider Key Skills, up 61 per cent on the previous year.\n\nThe most popular key skills continue to be communication awards (206 thousand awards in 2005/06 compared to 150 thousand ICT awards. Application of Number is still the fastest growing main Key Skill qualification, up by 27 per cent on the previous year to 166 thousand\nSince their introduction as a Qualification in 2004, the wider key skills continue to grow. Between 2004/05 and 2005/06, there was an increase of at least 60 per cent in the number of awards for each of the wider Key Skills such that wider Key Skills accounted for almost a quarter of awards of all Key Skills qualifications in 2005/06, compared with around a\nfifth in 2004/05.\n\nSource: [Department for Education and Skills] rsgateway/DB/SFR/ AWARDS OF KEY SKILLS QUALIFICATIONS: 2005/06 SFR 14/2007.\n\nSchools generally determine the level of entrance dependent on past achievement. Those who achieved under grade C at GCSE in the corresponding subject (English, Mathematics or Information Technology respectively) are asked to take the corresponding level two Qualification. Those who achieved over grade C at GCSE are recommended to take level three or four.\n\nThose who take the corresponding subjects at AS/A-level (or equivalent) are generally excluded from the external assessment in that subject, as the completion of the corresponding subject certifies the academic achievement required.\n\nBy 2010 the main three key skills will be replaced by Functional Skills in England, which will form part of the new Specialised Diploma Framework. The wider key skills will continue to be accredited.\n\nStudents with a GCSE (or equiv.) up to grade D in the subject associated to the Key Skill (i.e. IT, English or Maths) are exempt from taking the test for level 1 and can be entered for a proxy, this means that only the portfolio need be completed. The same applies to level 2 Key Skills if the student has a GCSE (or equiv.) grade C or above.\n\nThe exception to this is Key Skills ICT where a proxy makes the student exempt from both the test AND the portfolio. It is important to establish the correct level to be aimed for initially, especially when it comes to ICT.\n\nIn Wales Key Skills have been replaced with Essential Skills Wales (ESW) (as of September 2010.) Essential Skills Wales is the suite of skills qualifications which replaced the previous Key Skills of Communication, Application of Number and ICT, and the Basic Skills of Adult Literacy, Adult Numeracy and Skills for Life ICT. These skills can be achieved through the medium of Welsh or English.\n\nScotland has a separate Core Skills qualification. One of the main aims of Higher Still qualifications in Scotland is to develop the capabilities people need to be responsible members of society. All students at all levels must obtain qualifications in all five Core Skills if they wish to obtain a Scottish Group Award. The Core skills enable people to put their knowledge and understanding into action.\n\nThe Five Core Skills are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924244", "title": "Michał Karaszewicz-Tokarzewski", "text": "Michał Karaszewicz-Tokarzewski\n\nGeneral Michał Tadeusz Karaszewicz-Tokarzewski, Coat of arms of Trąby pseudonym Doktor, Stolarski, Torwid (b. 5 January 1893 in Lemberg – 22 May 1964 in Casablanca, Morocco) was a Polish general, founder of the resistance movement \"Polish Victory Service\".\n\nTokarzewski served in the Polish Legions from 1914 until 1917, then in the POW (Polish Military Organization). He was a commanding officer of the \"5th Infantry Legion Regiment\" during the Polish-Ukrainian War, which fought in Lwów.\n\nDuring the November-December 1918 pogroms in Poland, Tokarzewski was removed from his post by the Polish Government as District Commander of Przemysl for posting a notice in which he fined the Jewish population 3,000,000 crowns as punishment for allegedly fighting against the Polish army, despite their assertion of neutrality. This charge was never proven. \n\nThe poster read: \"An appeal to the population of Przemysl of Mosaic Confession. (ie, the Jewish population) \n\"In view of a well-known fact that in the course of the struggle of recapturing Przemysl, the Jews, notwithstanding their repeated assertion of neutrality, took part in the fight with the Ukrainian forces and fired on the attacking police detachment.\n\n\"I order the Jewish community to deposit at the district headquarters of the Polish troops of Przemysl a sum of 3,000,000 crowns.\" \n\nAfter Poland regained independence in 1918, Tokarzewski served in the Polish Army. In April 1919 he participated in the Polish-Soviet War when Wilno was seized by Poland. From 1924 until 1926 he was commanding the 19th Infantry Division in Wilno, from 1928 until 1932 a commanding officer of the 25th Infantry Division in Kalisz and from 1932 until 1939 a commanding officer of the Corps area (okreg korpusu) in Grodno, Lwów and Toruń.\n\nDuring the Polish Defensive War of 1939, he was commanding the Operation Group (grupa operacyjna) of the \"Armia Pomorze\" (Pomeranian Army). He fought in the Battle of Bzura and was the second-in-command of \"Armia Warszawa\" (Army Warsaw) which was commanded by general Juliusz Rómmel, during the defence of Warsaw.\n\nIn occupied Poland, on 27 September 1939 he founded the resistance movement \"Służba Zwycięstwu Polski\" (Polish Victory Service) and was its commander-in-chief until December 1939, when he became the commanding officer of the \"3rd Lwów area (ZWZ)\" under Soviet occupation. Crossing the new German–Soviet border, in March 1940 he was arrested and imprisoned by the NKVD.\n\nAfter being released from prison, Tokarzewski was appointed a commanding officer of the \"6th Infantry Division\" of the Polish Army in the Soviet Union (Anders Army) in August 1941. From March 1943 until 1944 he served as the second-in-command of the Polish Army in the East. In 1944 he became a commander of the 3rd Polish Corps which was formed in Egypt.\n\nAfter the war he stayed in exile in England and settled in London. From 1954 on he was the General Inspector of the Armed Forces of the Polish forces in exile. He died on 22 May 1964 in Casablanca, Morocco. In September 1992 the urn with his ashes was transferred from Brompton Cemetery in London to Poland and buried at the Powązki Cemetery in Warsaw.\n\nIn 2006, General Tokarzewski's medals and battledress came up for public auction. Two Canadians, who were aware of the unfortunate history of Poland during World War II, were successful in their bid and brought the items to Canada. The two then donated the entire collection to \"Poland and the Polish people\" during a ceremony at the Polish Combatants' Association, Branch#20, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The collection was displayed at the Branch #20 museum until March, 2007, when it was shipped to Warsaw to be displayed in the Warsaw Military Museum in that city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924249", "title": "La Gioconda (opera)", "text": "La Gioconda (opera)\n\nLa Gioconda is an opera in four acts by Amilcare Ponchielli set to an Italian libretto by Arrigo Boito (as Tobia Gorrio), based on \"Angelo, Tyrant of Padua\", a play in prose by Victor Hugo, dating from 1835. (This is the same source as Gaetano Rossi had used for his libretto for Mercadante's \"Il giuramento\" in 1837).\n\nFirst performed in 1876, \"La Gioconda\" was a major success for Ponchielli, as well as the most successful new Italian opera between Verdi's \"Aida\" (1871) and \"Otello\" (1887). It is also a famous example of the Italian genre of \"Grande opera\", the equivalent of French \"Grand-Opéra\".\n\nPonchielli revised the work several times; the version that is played today was first given in 1880. There are several complete recordings of the opera, and it is regularly performed, especially in Italy. It is one of only a few operas that features a principal role for each of the six major voice types.\n\n\"La Gioconda\" was first performed at the Teatro alla Scala, Milan, on 8 April 1876. It was especially successful in its third and final version first seen at the same theatre on 28 March 1880. The opera had its American premiere at the Metropolitan Opera on 20 December 1883.\n\nThe opera's title translates as \"The Happy Woman\", but is usually given in English as \"The Ballad Singer\". However, as this fails to convey the irony inherent in the original, the Italian is usually used. Each act of \"La Gioconda\" has a title.\n\nThe story revolves around a woman, Gioconda, who so loves her mother that when Laura, her rival in love for the heart of Enzo, saves her mother's life, Gioconda puts aside her own romantic love to repay her. The villain Barnaba tries to seduce Gioconda, but she prefers death.\n\n\"The courtyard of the Doge's Palace\"\n\nDuring Carnival celebrations before Lent, while everyone else is preoccupied with a regatta, Barnaba, a state spy, lustfully watches La Gioconda as she leads her blind mother, La Cieca, across the Square. When his amorous advances are firmly rejected, he exacts his revenge by denouncing the old lady as a witch whose evil powers influenced the outcome of the gondola race. It is only the intervention of a young sea captain that keeps the angry mob at bay.\n\nCalm is restored at the approach of Alvise Badoero, a member of the Venetian Inquisition, and his wife, Laura. Laura places La Cieca under her personal protection, and in gratitude the old woman presents her with her most treasured possession, a rosary. The sharp-eyed Barnaba notices furtive behaviour between Laura and the sea captain indicating a secret relationship. Recalling that Laura was engaged to the now banished nobleman Enzo Grimaldo before her forced marriage to Alvise, Barnaba realises that the sea captain is Enzo in disguise.\n\nBarnaba confronts Enzo, who admits his purpose in returning to Venice is to take Laura and begin a new life elsewhere. Barnaba knows that Gioconda is also infatuated with Enzo and he sees an opportunity to improve his chances with her by assisting Enzo with his plan of elopement.\n\nWhen Enzo has gone, Barnaba dictates a letter to Alvise revealing his wife's infidelity and the lovers' plan of escape. He is unaware that he has been overheard by Gioconda. The act ends with Barnaba dropping the letter into the Lion's Mouth, where all secret information for the Inquisition is posted, while Gioconda laments Enzo's perceived treachery, and the crowd returns to its festivities.\n\n\"The deck of Enzo's ship\"\n\nEnzo waits for Barnaba to row Laura out from the city to his vessel. Their joyful reunion is overshadowed by Laura's fears as she does not trust Barnaba. Gradually Enzo is able to reassure her, and he leaves her on deck while he goes to prepare for their departure.\n\nLa Gioconda has been following Laura with the intention of exacting revenge from her rival. Alvise and his armed men are also in hot pursuit, but as Gioconda is about to stab Laura she sees her mother's rosary hanging round her neck and has an instant change of heart. She hurries Laura into her boat so that she can evade her pursuers.\n\nEnzo returns to the deck to find that Laura has fled leaving Gioconda triumphant. Furthermore, Alvise's men are rapidly approaching. He sets fire to the ship rather than let it fall into the hands of his enemies before diving into the lagoon.\n\n\"Alvise's palace\"\n\nLaura has been captured, and her vengeful husband insists she must die by poisoning herself (effectively committing suicide and condemning herself to Hell). Once again Gioconda has followed and has found her way into the palace, this time with the intention of saving her rival. Finding Laura alone Gioconda replaces the phial of poison with a powerful drug which creates the appearance of death.\nThe second scene begins with Alvise welcoming his fellow members of the nobility to the palace; Barnaba and Enzo are amongst those present. Lavish entertainment is provided and the act ends with the famous ballet \"Dance of the Hours\". The mood of revelry is shattered as a funeral bell begins to toll and the body of Laura is revealed awaiting burial. A distraught Enzo flings off his disguise and is promptly seized by Alvise's men.\n\n\"A crumbling ruin on the island of Giudecca\"\n\nIn exchange for Enzo's release from prison, La Gioconda has agreed to give herself to Barnaba. When Enzo is brought in, he is initially furious when Gioconda reveals that she has had Laura's body brought from its tomb. He is about to stab her when Laura's voice is heard and Gioconda's part in reuniting the lovers becomes clear. Enzo and Laura make their escape, leaving La Gioconda to face the horrors awaiting her with Barnaba. The gondoliers' voices are heard in the distance telling that there are corpses floating in the city. When Gioconda tries to leave, she is caught by Barnaba. She then pretends to welcome his arrival, but under cover of decking herself in her jewellery, seizes a dagger and stabs herself to death. In frustrated rage Barnaba tries to perpetrate one last act of evil, screaming at the lifeless body \"Last night your mother offended me. I drowned her!\"\n\n\nThe \"Dance of the Hours\" in Act 3 is considered one of the most popular ballets in history. The ballet was used in the 1940 Walt Disney animated film \"Fantasia\". The segment consists of the whole ballet, but performed comically by animals. The dancers of the morning are represented by Madame Upanova and her ostriches. The dancers of the daytime are represented by Hyacinth Hippo and her hippopotamus servants. (For this section the piece is expanded by a modified and reorchestrated repetition of the \"morning\" music.) The dancers of the evening are represented by Elephanchine and her bubble blowing elephant troupe. The dancers of the night are represented by Ben Ali Gator and his troop of alligators. All of the dancers rejoice in the great hall for a grand finale, which is so extravagant that the entire palace collapses at the end.\n\nAnother famous parody of \"Dance of the Hours\" is Allan Sherman's song \"Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh\", describing a miserable time at summer camp. It uses the main theme of the ballet as its melody. Sherman's song was later referenced in a 1985 television commercial.\n\nPortions of the ballet were also used by Spike Jones and his City Slickers in their song parodying the Indianapolis 500.\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1924251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924251", "title": "The Ghost in the Machine", "text": "The Ghost in the Machine\n\nThe Ghost in the Machine is a 1967 book about philosophical psychology by Arthur Koestler. The title is a phrase (see ghost in the machine) coined by the Oxford philosopher Gilbert Ryle to describe the Cartesian dualist account of the mind–body relationship. Koestler shares with Ryle the view that the mind of a person is not an independent non-material entity, temporarily inhabiting and governing the body. The work attempts to explain humanity's self-destructive tendency in terms of individual and collective functioning, philosophy, and overarching, cyclical political–historical dynamics, peaking in the nuclear weapons arena.\n\nIn an attempt to explain human violence, Koestler criticizes the dominant conceptions of psychology of his time (behaviorism) that postulate that human behaviors are subject to the selection of the fittest. For him this theory echoed the Darwinian conceptions of the evolution of species.\n\nThe book contributes also to the longstanding debate surrounding the mind–body problem and focusing in particular on René Descartes's dualism, in the form elucidated by Ryle. Koestler's materialistic account argues that the personal experience of duality arises from what Koestler calls a \"holon\". The notion of a holon emerges from the observation that everything in the nature is both a whole and a part. It is true for atoms who are a whole in themselves, but also a part of a molecule, of atom who could be a whole and part of cell, of cells who are both an autonomous unity and part of an organism. It is also true for human beings who have an independent life and are part of social systems. Every holon is willing to express two contradictory tendencies : to express himself, and to disappear in something greater. For humans, those tendencies lead to an error in development: we create collective units that are based on the oppression of some individuals and on the inflated egos of others. This is for Koestler an error of transcendence that is reflected in a poor integration of our reptilian brain and cognitive brain. \n\nA superposition of forces manifests, at each bodily holon, as the outcome of an entire hierarchy of forces—ontogenetic, habitual, linguistic prescriptive, and social science—operating in a continuum of independent feedback and feedforward streams of a body extended to its larger environment. The streams are fed by the life signals of each and every group member, and this fully participative medley is the spirit of life one senses as a ghost; but this spirit is just a simplified output of a complex knowledge set; it is emergent from the complexity of the group's rules and strategies. He contrasts \"his\" basic approach to the mind–body problem with behaviorism's basic approach to the problem.\n\nFollowing the holon of humanity down to its roots, the work explains humanity's tendency toward self-destruction in terms of brain structure, philosophies, and its overarching, cyclical political–historical dynamics, reaching the height of its potential in the nuclear arms arena.\n\nOne of the book's central concepts is that as the human triune brain has evolved, it has retained and built upon earlier, more primitive brain structures. The head portion of the \"ghost in the machine\" has, as a consequence of poor, inadequate connections, a rich potential for conflict. The primitive layers can, and may, together, overpower rational logic's hold. This explains a person's hate, anger and other such emotional distress.\n\nIn \"\" (1978) Koestler continues the theories developed in \"The Ghost in the Machine\" and further elaborates on the concept of holarchy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924252", "title": "Adam Bartsch", "text": "Adam Bartsch\n\nJohann Adam Bernhard Ritter von Bartsch (17 August 1757 – 21 August 1821) was an Austrian scholar and artist. His catalogue of old master prints is the foundation of the art history of printmaking, and he was himself a printmaker in engraving and etching.\n\nBartsch was born and died in Vienna. He joined the staff of the Royal Court Library in Vienna in 1777, after studying engraving at the Vienna Kupferstecheracademie, and became Head curator of the print collection in 1791. He was also an advisor to Duke Albert of Saxe-Teschen, who founded the collection of the Albertina, Vienna, then as now the world's finest collection of old master prints. In the twentieth century the two collections were merged in the Albertina.\n\nBetween 1803 and his death in 1821 Bartsch published in French in 21 volumes Le Peintre Graveur, a pioneering catalogue of old master prints by Dutch, Flemish, German, and Italian painter-engravers from the 15th to the 17th century. References to \"Bartsch\" normally mean this work. It has been reprinted five times, most recently in 1982. In 1821 he also published the \"Kupferstichkunde\" (The Art of Engraving) in German.\n\n\"The Illustrated Bartsch\" (Abaris Books, New York) is an English language illustrated version of \"Le Peintre Graveur.\" (The original \"Le Peintre Graveur\" was unillustrated by technological necessity.) The \"Illustrated Bartsch\" General Editor was Walter L. Strauss. The project has been underway since 1978, and is projected to include at least 164 volumes. Most of the picture volumes are published; the accompanying text volumes, in effect complete new catalogue raisonnés, are taking longer. In fact only Bartsch's numbering is retained in full, although his original is often quoted. All the prints known to Bartsch are illustrated in the first 50 volumes. Prints not known to Bartsch, not listed by him or new attributions are listed in the companion and later volumes. It is often abbreviated to \"TIB\" in references. It (currently the images only) is available online to colleges and other institutions subscribing to ARTstor- essentially in US & Canada only.\n\nBartsch established what has become the definitive numbering system, bearing his name (e.g. \"Bartsch 17\" or \"B17\"), for Rembrandt etchings and the prints of many other artists, which is still used or at least referred to most subsequent and standard works in this field. His numbers list the works by category, roughly following the contemporary hierarchy of genres, except that self-portraits come first, followed by biblical subjects, then subjects of saints, allegories, and so on. In his lifetime, Bartsch executed over 500 plates from his own designs and from those of other masters. Many are attractive but he is not a major artist.\n\nHis term peintre-graveur or painter-engraver is also still in use to distinguish original from reproductive printmakers, especially in the period of the old master print (to about 1830).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924253", "title": "Stalag", "text": "Stalag\n\nIn Germany, stalag (; ) was a term used for prisoner-of-war camps. Stalag is a contraction of \"Stammlager\", itself short for \"Kriegsgefangenen-Mannschaftsstammlager\", a literal translation of which is \"War-caught\" (i.e. POW) \"team\" \"main camp\"). Therefore, technically \"stalag\" simply means \"main camp\".\n\nAccording to the Third Geneva Convention of 1929 and its predecessor, the Hague Convention of 1907, Section IV, Chapter 2, these camps were only for prisoners of war, not civilians. Stalags were operated in both World War I and World War II and were intended to be used for non-commissioned personnel (enlisted ranks in the US Army and other ranks in British Commonwealth forces). Officers were held in separate camps called \"Oflag\". During World War II, the \"Luftwaffe\" (German air force) operated \"Stalag Luft\" in which flying personnel, both officers and non-commissioned officers, were held. The \"Kriegsmarine\" (German navy) operated \"Marlag\" for Navy personnel and \"Milag\" for Merchant Navy personnel.\n\nCivilians who were officially attached to military units, such as war correspondents, were provided the same treatment as military personnel by the Conventions.\n\nThe Third Geneva Convention, Section III, Article 49, permits non-commissioned personnel of lower ranks to be used for work in agriculture and industry, but not in any industry producing war material. Further articles of Section III detail conditions under which they should work, be housed and paid. During World War II these latter provisions were consistently breached, in particular for Russian, Polish, and Yugoslav prisoners. According to Nazi ideology, Slavic people were regarded as \"rassisch minderwertig\" (\"racially inferior\").\n\nStarvation was a deliberate policy in the Ställags, particularly with regard to Soviet prisoners of war. The camps consisted of a field with barbed wire around it, in which thousands of people were crammed together. There was usually no room to sit or lie down. Also, there was often no shelter from the weather, which could be very cold in the Polish and Belarusian winter. The food provided was too little to keep the prisoners alive. In the Soviet Stalags, the death rate during the entire war was 57.5 percent, although during the last months of 1941 this rate must have been much higher. In comparison, the mortality rate for Stalags for Western Allies was below 5 percent. More Soviet prisoners of war died every day in Nazi camps during the Autumn of 1941 than the total number of Western Allied POWs in the entire war.\n\nPrisoners of various nationalities were generally separated from each other by barbed-wire fences subdividing each stalag into sections. Frequently prisoners speaking the same language, for example British Commonwealth soldiers, were permitted to intermingle.\n\nAt each stalag the German Army set up sub-camps called \"Arbeitskommando\" to hold prisoners in the vicinity of specific work locations, whether factories, coal-mines, quarries, farms or railroad maintenance. These sub-camps sometimes held more than 1,000 prisoners, separated by nationality. The sub-camps were administered by the parent stalag, which maintained personnel records and collected mail and International Red Cross packages and then delivered them to the individual \"Arbeitskommando\". Any individuals who were injured in work, or became ill, were returned to the \"Lazarett\" (medical care facilities) at the parent stalag.\n\nStalag Luft III, a large prisoner of war camp near Sagan, Silesia, Germany (now Żagań, Poland), was the site of an escape attempt (later filmed as \"The Great Escape\"). On 24 March 1944, 76 Allied prisoners escaped through a 110 m (approximately 360 feet) long tunnel. Of these, 73 were recaptured within two weeks, and 50 of them were executed by order of Hitler in the Stalag Luft III murders.\n\nThe largest German World War II prisoner of war camp was Stalag VII-A at Moosburg, Germany. Over 130,000 Allied soldiers were imprisoned there. It was liberated by the U.S. 14th Armored Division following a short battle with SS soldiers of the 17th SS Panzer Grenadier Division on 29 April 1945. \n\nStalag III-C is notable for the escape of US paratrooper Joseph Beyrle, who subsequently joined a Soviet tank battalion commanded by Aleksandra Samusenko, which returned to liberate the camp.\n\nThe airmen in the show \"Hogan's Heroes\" were imprisoned in fictitious \"Luft Stalag 13\" near Hammelburg.\n\nThe World War II play \"Stalag 17\", which was made into the 1953 movie \"Stalag 17\", was set in Stalag XVII-B, located near Krems, Austria.\n\nThe movie \"Hart's War\" was set in Stalag VI-A, near Hemer/Iserlohn in Military District VI.\n\nIn Israel of the 1950s–1960s, \"stalag\" was a generic term for pornographic material with a theme of sadistic sexual activity between female SS officers and prisoners of war. In 2007, Ari Libsker made a film on this topic, entitled \"Stalags\".\n\nIn 1993, the British TV movie \"Stalag Luft\", starring Stephen Fry, featured a prisoner of war camp in which the German guards have abandoned the prisoners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924254", "title": "Kokopu", "text": "Kokopu\n\nKokopu () is a common name used for three species of fish of the genus \"Galaxias\". They are found in the rivers, lakes and swamps of New Zealand, to which they are endemic. Kokopu are galaxiids and like others members of that family lacks scales and has a thick, leathery skin covered with mucus. Kokopu inhabit streams with plenty of cover (e.g. logs and overhanging boulders) but can also be found in swamps and larger waterways. They mostly feed on invertebrates that live in the stream beds but also eat insects that fall into the water and will move into the open at night for feeding.\n\nThere are three known species of Kokopu in New Zealand:\n\n\nKokopu live for between 5 and 10 years but can reach in excess of 21 years. They spawn in leaf debris in stream beds or during spring tides and the eggs hatch about 30 days after being laid. The hatchlings are carried downstream where they spend a short period of time in the sea and return to streams after four to five months. Kokopu sprats are keenly sought by fishers as whitebait for consumption as a delicacy and are caught in fine meshed nets.\n\nKokopu depend on the natural environment, principally in forested environments, and so have become less common as New Zealand has been cleared of much of its native forest and swampland as a result of colonisation and farming development since the late 19th century. Nevertheless, recognition of the value of biodiversity and the preservation of natural areas in National Parks and reserved conservation areas promises to maintain the species.\n\nKokopu suffer from the introduction of trout species that were introduced into New Zealand for sport fishing purposes during the first half of the 20th century by various acclimatisation societies. Research has indicated that where trout have become established then kokopu are unlikely to be found. Nevertheless, since the kokopu, on average, is smaller in size than trout then where stream and swamp environments cannot support trout and are still in forested areas, kokopu are likely to be found.\n"}
{"id": "1924255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924255", "title": "Battle of Șelimbăr", "text": "Battle of Șelimbăr\n\nThe Battle of Şelimbăr or Battle of Sellenberk (; ) took place on 18 October 1599 between the Romanian army of Michael the Brave () and the Transylvanian-Hungarian army of Andrew Báthory (). The battle was fought near the village of Șelimbăr (in Hungarian: Sellenberk) close to Sibiu (in German: Hermannstadt, in Hungarian: Nagyszeben).\n\nMichael the Brave marched into Transylvania to fight against the Ottomans. The neighboring rulers Andrew Báthory in Transylvania and Ieremia Movilă in Moldavia were friendly towards Poland.\n\nIn 1598, Michael signed a treaty of peace with the Ottomans, however both sides knew that the issue was far from settled. When Transylvania fell under the influence of Poland, which preserved friendly relations with the Ottomans, a hostile ring closed around Wallachia. Only the Habsburgs were prepared to ally themselves with Michael. The treaty, signed in Prague on 9 June 1598, made Wallachia a vassal state; in exchange, the emperor undertook to cover the cost of providing 5.000 mercenaries to the principality. The voivode wanted to secure a land link to his ally. With Emperor Rudolph's assent, he launched an attack on Transylvania.\n\nHe informed the Székelys that he is attacking Transylvania on behalf of the Emperor Rudolf and, if they join him, their traditional freedoms will be restored. At this the Székelys joined the forces of Michael \"en masse\" so that Székelys comprised one third of his army of 36,000 soldiers.\n\nMichael entered in Transylvania through Buzău Pass. Another Wallachian army corp, composed of 6,000 warriors from Oltenia, led by Radu Buzescu and the Ban Udrea, crossed the Transylvanian Alps through Turnu Roşu Pass. The junction was made on October 16.\n\nMichael had approximately 40,000 men at his command. Many of them did not fight, however, preferring instead to remain in the camp and protect the women and children of the boyars who had joined them in this campaign out of the fear of possible Tatar attacks in Wallachia.\n\nThe army of Andrew Báthory numbered approximately 30,000 men, but during the battle many defected to Michael's army, including the Székely Hungarians who despised the ruling Báthory family. The Wallachians gained the upper hand at the beginning of the battle, but were pushed back quickly by the charge of the Hungarian Hussars. The Transylvanians then had the opportunity to win the battle, but Andrew Báthory refused to commit his rearguard to battle, giving the Wallachians a chance to regroup. The resulting charge against the Transylvanian army was a success, Andrew Báthory fled the field (only to be later assassinated), and Michael headed with his victorious army to the city of Alba Iulia (Gyulafehérvár), as the Diet recognised him as voivode and imperial governor.\n\nCasualties were at least 1,200 to 1,500 on the Transylvanian side, and 200 to 1,000 men killed on the Wallachian side. The inhabitants of Sibiu (Hermannstadt, Nagyszeben) buried the bodies in a mass grave known today as Michael the Brave's Knoll.\n\nMichael's victory resulted in the first instance when the principalities of Wallachia, Moldavia, and Transylvania were united under a Romanian ruler.\n\nIt has to be said, however, that the governments of Wallachia and Transylvania remained separate, and Michael never attempted to connect Transylvania to Wallachia, nor interfere in Transylvania's system of government (by the Estates). What is more he also invited some Székelys and other Transylvanian Hungarians to assist in the administration of Wallachia, where he wished to transplant Transylvania's far more advanced feudal system.\n\nEspecially during the period of the Romanian national awakening, his victories were interpreted as the first unification of the Romanian people, and Michael remains a Romanian national hero.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924258", "title": "Dino Crisis 2", "text": "Dino Crisis 2\n\nAfter the events of the previous game, unsafe research into time-distorting Third Energy has resulted in an entire research base, military institution, and fictional metropolis of Edward City to be transported to another time; along with all of its inhabitants. Secret Operations Raid Team operative Regina returns as one of the main playable characters, sent along as an adviser to the rescue team that travels through time to find survivors of the time displacement and recover data on the Third Energy experiments. Dylan Morton, the rescue team leader, is the second playable character. Despite Dylan and Regina initially going their separate ways, they end up joining forces to find a way back to the present. The player switches between controlling Regina and Dylan at specific points during the story.\n\n\"Dino Crisis 2\" is an action-adventure game that uses predetermined camera angles. Capcom Production Studio 4 changed the series' focus from the survival horror of the first \"Dino Crisis\" by creating a more action-packed arcade-style experience that featured more open areas, greater varieties of weapons and enemies and less emphasis on puzzles.\n\nAs players kill dinosaurs in succession, countering attacks and avoiding damage in areas, they can earn \"Extinction Points\" a form of in-game currency that tally up as player moves between locations. Throughout the game, the player can locate and use computer stations that act as a save point where players can save and load games. They can also spend Extinction Points on new weapons, upgrades, health packs and ammunition. There are also bandages (used to stem bleeding). This type of injury occurs when a player takes damage from certain attacks, and it results in slow draining of the health bar.\n\nThere are two forms of weapons in the game, main and sub-weapons; the player can only equip one of each at a time. Main weapons provide the most damage and are used for the majority of attacks, for example shotguns, flamethrowers and rifles whereas sub-weapons are used to get past obstacles, like the machete for cutting plant vines and the firewall gun that creates a temporary wall of fire against foes. Over the course of the game players switch roles between Regina and Dylan, the two have different weapons, making some passages blocked for one but accessible for the other.\n\nAmong the action-adventure gameplay are sections of on rails shooting, such as a chase where the player shoots at dinosaurs that are chasing an automatically driven vehicle and, like the previous game, several puzzles. Throughout the game, the player finds data files and documents that progress the story and give details of certain areas. Hidden \"Dino Files\" can also be found; these go into detail about each dinosaur in the game. Upon collecting all the available Dino Files, the player is granted unlimited ammunition for weapons on the next play through.\n\nUpon completion of the main game, there is an unlockable mode known as Extra Crisis with two gameplay modes: \"Dino Colosseum\" and \"Dino Duel\". Colosseum is a survival mode where a chosen character with their own pre-set weapons fight off series of attacks by certain dinosaurs, the larger and more deadly being the latter. Upon completion the player is graded and awarded a trophy on how well they performed. Dino Duel is a mode that allows the player to take control of a dinosaur and battle another in the style of a fighting game. Completion of the game on harder difficulties allows more characters and dinosaurs to become available for purchase, using the final Extinction Points gathered from that play through. These include Gail and Rick, two characters from the first game. Dinosaurs can also be used in Dino Colosseum, however, they must be unlocked by completing the game in normal or hard mode.\n\n\nOn May 10, 2010, the United States Army's TRAT unit is deployed to investigate the disappearance of Edward City and its surrounding countryside. Their mission: Locate 1300 survivors and collect data remnants on the Third Energy Project. Intelligence operative Regina is brought along as an adviser due to her past experiences. During insertion, the team's camp is attacked by a pack of \"Velociraptor\", leaving Lieutenant Dylan Morton, Regina and TRAT operative David as the only survivors. The velociraptors flee when a \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" attacks the group. David damages the tyrannosaur's eye with a rocket-propelled grenade to ensure Dylan and Regina's escape. Regina returns to the transport ship while Dylan heads into the jungle, spotting a mysterious helmeted figure while investigating a military facility. Upon arrival, he is confronted by the wounded \"T. rex\". While escaping to the barracks, he is shot at by helmeted attackers. Later, he attempts to retrieve a key card, triggering a security alert that imprisons him.\n\nRegina receives Dylan's distress call and rescues him. While rescuing Dylan, Regina captures one of the mysterious attackers, a blonde teenage girl who is unable to speak. When they return to their ship, they find the engine room ransacked, stranding the heroes, while the teenage girl exhibits a familiar connection to Dylan.\n\nAt the Research Facility, Dylan discovers human containment chambers and a starter battery for the ship in order to get it mobile. Dylan returns to find the girl has escaped, and theorizes that the helmeted attackers could be from a different time period. They use the repaired ship to reach the offshore Third Energy facility.\n\nRegina uses a diving suit at the facility to investigate the underwater reactor. Once topside, she and Dylan receive a distress call from David, who has found survivors at Edward City. However, Dylan and Regina arrive too late. Upon splitting up, Dylan engages the \"T. rex\" with a tank before being jumped by another helmeted figure. The blonde girl saves Dylan and runs away. Deciding they have no business at Edward City anymore, Regina heads to a missile silo in the jungle.\n\nRegina discovers the Third Energy data at the silo, but is confronted by the \"Tyrannosaurus\". Her savior is a \"Giganotosaurus\" that kills it. The \"Gigantosaurus\" follows Regina inside the missile silo, causing damage that triggers a countdown to launch. Regina ignites gas vents to incinerate the \"Giganotosaurus\"'s head, rendering it comatose. Regina stops the countdown, but the beast awakens and smashes the missile to the ground, destroying the base. While evacuating Regina, Dylan is attacked and injured by an \"Allosaurus\". In order to save him, David sacrifices himself by throwing Dylan into the river before getting eaten.\n\nDylan arrives at another research facility and encounters the blonde-haired girl. Inside, she plays a hologram recording of an elderly Dylan from 2055 and learns the origins of the disaster. The overload in 2009 affected Earth's history dramatically, creating an alternate timeline where humanity did not exist. To fix this, an international organization enacted the \"Noah's Ark Plan\": utilizing the Timegate technology, they would transport the living organisms of the Cretaceous to a different time period, three million years in the future, with similar environments, where they could thrive unaffected by the alterations. With the distortions prevented, the organisms would then be returned to their original time period. However, when the Noah's Ark team attempted to return, the gate overloaded and was destroyed, stranding both the dinosaurs and humans in the future. The helmeted attackers are revealed to be the only remaining children of the survivors, who were brought to the safety of a facility and placed in special life support chambers for growth and learning. The side-effects of the chambers cost the children's ability to speak and allowed them to co-exist with the dinosaurs, attacking anyone who threatened them. Dylan also learns at this point that the blonde girl is his future daughter, Paula. The hologram instructs Dylan there is a basic gate they can use to go home, but it will work only once, asking Dylan take Paula with him.\n\nThe facility's self destruct system is activated by the sole surviving helmeted figure, causing the \"Giganotosaurus\" to appear. The helmeted figure is killed, while Dylan incinerates the Giganotosaurus with an orbital laser. While attempting to evacuate with Regina, an earth tremor leaves Paula trapped by falling equipment. Unable to free her and with the building ready to explode, Dylan stays with his daughter, telling Regina to return home with the Third Energy data and save them at an earlier time period.\n\n\"Dino Crisis 2\" was met with Mostly positive reviews, with an average score of 80.70% based on 22 reviews for the PlayStation version and an average score of 57.33% based on 3 reviews for the PC version at GameRankings and an 86/100 based on 13 reviews for the PlayStation version at Metacritic.\n\nIn their review, GameSpot commented that the first \"Dino Crisis\" was as if Capcom \"replaced the zombies with carnivorous dinosaurs\" for a \"Resident Evil\" spin-off. However, they found \"Dino Crisis 2\" \"an original, enjoyable experience that can no longer be considered just another entry into the survival-horror genre\", as it \"avoids the stereotypes of the genre and delivers one of the most refreshing takes on the action-adventure genre to date.\" IGN concurred that the game had been \"stripped of its slow-paced \"Resident Evil\" shell and its haunting, creepy shockeroo tricks\". They had even more praise for the game: \"the creatures and the design are both excellent, and the jungle backgrounds, and especially the underwater environments, are simply top-notch.\" \"GamePro\"'s review commented that, \"Sound is solid, with an unobtrusive musical score that blends well with gaming effects, i.e. the telltale rustle of foliage preceding a raptor's leap for your throat isn't drowned out by J-pop.\"\n\n\"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" gave the game four stars out of five, stating that, \"overall, Dino Crisis 2 is a fantastic sequel that delivers more adrenaline-pumping action, beautiful scenery and a hearty dose of terror.\" However, the newspaper added that \"tasks such as running around looking for keys can be tedious. And some of the action portions of the game can get repetitive, too.\" \nGame Revolution felt the \"arcade-like\" gameplay \"detracts a bit from the whole survival-horror theme\". They also noted that \"the back and forth gameplay gets tired after a while,\" and that it can be \"very easy to get distracted from the storyline and get sucked into the process of amassing an arsenal.\"\n\nGreg Orlando reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"Beautiful graphics, solid control, and furious action still can't overcome the dull protagonists and severely foreshortened running time.\"\n\nLike its predecessor, \"Dino Crisis 2\" was a commercial success, with the PlayStation version selling 1.19 million copies worldwide. Capcom would later re-release the game for PC, and bring it to PlayStation Network in the US and Japan.\n"}
{"id": "1924268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924268", "title": "Moshe Levi", "text": "Moshe Levi\n\nMoshe Levi (, 1936 – January 8, 2008) was an Israeli military commander and the 12th chief of staff of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF). He served in this position from 1983 to 1987. He was the first chief of staff of Mizrahi origin.\n\nLevi, born in Tel Aviv to an Iraqi-Jewish family, was known by his army nickname \"Moshe VaHetzi\" ( (\"Moshe and a half\") because of his towering height.\n\nHe was drafted into the army in 1954 and served in the Golani infantry brigade. After completing his officers' course, Levy joined the paratroops, and in 1956 he took part in the Mitla Pass parachute drop.\n\nLevy was promoted to chief of staff in 1983, succeeding Rafael Eitan. During his tenure, he presided over the IDF withdrawal in Lebanon in 1985 and oversaw the redeployment of Israeli troops and the creation of the security zone in South Lebanon.\n\nLevy helped to found the IDF ground forces branch. He created two new brigades: the Nahal and Givati brigades.\n\nWhile serving as Chief of Staff and after retiring from the army, Levy lived on Kibbutz Beit Alfa in northern Israel. In his last years, he was the founding chairperson of the supervisory board of Highway 6, also known as the Trans-Israel Highway.\n\nLevy was married twice and was survived by five children and five grandchildren.\n\nOn January 1, 2008, Levy suffered a massive stroke, his second, and died eight days later of a brain aneurysm at HaEmek Medical Center in Afula. He was buried Wednesday in Kibbutz Beit Alpha, with eight generals carrying his body, top government officials, and hundreds who knew and worked with him in attendance.\n\nIn a sketch by the HaGashash HaHiver comedy trio, Moshe Levy is referred to as \"Musa Wanus\" (Moshe and a half in Arabic).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924274", "title": "Gracia Baur", "text": "Gracia Baur\n\nGracia Arabella Baur (born November 18, 1982) is a German singer and songwriter. She rose to fame as a finalist on the debut season of the television series \"Deutschland sucht den Superstar\", the German \"Idol\" series adaptation, placing fifth.\n\nGracia was born in Munich on November 18, 1982 to Roman and Rosemary Baur and was named after Princess Grace (Gracia Patricia) of Monaco, who had died a few weeks earlier. Gracia's identical twin sister was called Patricia after the princess.\n\nDuring her teenage years she took vocal lessons to strengthen her voice. To fulfill her dreams of a career as a professional singer, she started recording demos and passed several auditions. In 2000, she even made it through the first round of \"Popstars\", but was forced out when she forgot the words of her song.\n\nIn 2002/2003, she took part in \"Deutschland sucht den Superstar\", the German version of \"Pop Idol\", and eventually reached #5. Pushed by the publicity she released her first album \"Intoxicated\", which peaked at #10 on the German album charts and spawned the hit singles \"I Don't Think So\" and \"I Believe In Miracles\". Afterwards, she teamed up with fellow \"DSDS\" runners-up Daniel Küblböck, Nektarios Bamiatzis, and Stephanie Brauckmeyer, releasing the charity single \"Don't Close Your Eyes\" under the name \"4 United\".\n\nGracia was selected to represent Germany in the Eurovision Song Contest with the song \"Run & Hide\", produced and composed by David Brandes. After the German national pre-selection for the Eurovision Song Contest it was revealed that Brandes had bought thousands of his own CDs to ensure chart placement, a requirement of the ESC (the single had actually hit the top 30 on the German charts). In contrast to the Swiss entry Vanilla Ninja, who had also had their entry produced by Brandes, Gracia opted to continue her association with the newly controversial figure.\n\nHowever, \"Run & Hide\", a modern pop-rock song with heavy use of synthesizers, failed to catch the audience's imagination in the Eurovision Song Contest and ignominiously placed last (24th), with just four points awarded from Moldova and Monaco. Gracia, however, was not deterred (\"Well, somebody has to finish last\" was her laconic comment after the show), and went on with her second solo album \"Passion\", released in November 2005.\n\n2004 she recorded Götter der Ewigkeit, part of the German soundtrack of the Walt Disney Feature Animation \"Brother Bear\".\n\nIn December 2006, Gracia released the Song \"Cos I believe\" together with Marvin Broadie under the name \"Xantoo\". It charted at #39.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924276", "title": "Mentat (computing)", "text": "Mentat (computing)\n\nMentat is a macro-dataflow extension of the C++ programming language. It was developed at the University of Virginia computer science Department by a research group led by Andrew Grimshaw. The combination of the ideas needed to implement the Mentat run-time with the ideas in Carnegie Mellon University's Hydra distributed operating system led to the Legion distributed OS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924285", "title": "Honor cords", "text": "Honor cords\n\nAn honor cord is a token consisting of twisted cords with tassels on either end awarded to members of honor societies or for various academic and non-academic achievements, awards, or honors. Usually, cords come in pairs with a knot in the middle to hold them together. Sometimes sashes, stoles, or medallions are given in place of cords. They are most often worn at academic ceremonies and functions. With cap and gown, and (sometimes) the hood, high school or university degree candidates have worn these cords at the discretion of the educational institution, but they are not usually worn with academic regalia after the academic year in which the honor was awarded. Unlike hoods and stoles, by tradition more than one cord may be worn at the same time.\n\nAt some universities, pairs of honor cords, in the school colors, indicate honors graduates: one pair for \"cum laude\", two pairs for \"magna cum laude\", and three pairs for \"summa cum laude\". These are in addition to any cords for membership in an honor society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924287", "title": "Martha (opera)", "text": "Martha (opera)\n\nMartha, oder Der Markt zu Richmond (\"Martha, or The Market at Richmond\") is a \"romantic comic\" opera in four acts by Friedrich von Flotow set to a German libretto by Friedrich Wilhelm Riese and based on a story by Jules-Henri Vernoy de Saint-Georges.\n\nFlotow had composed the first act of a ballet, \"Harriette, ou la servante de Greenwiche\", derived from a text by Saint-Georges, for the ballerina Adèle Dumilâtre. This was first performed by the Paris Opera Ballet at the Salle Le Peletier on 21 February 1844. The time available for the composition was short, so the second and third acts were assigned, respectively, to Friedrich Burgmüller and Édouard Deldevez. The opera \"Martha\" was an adaptation of this ballet.\n\nAccording to Gustav Kobbé, \"Martha\", though written by a native of Mecklenburg and first performed in Vienna, is French in character and elegance. Flotow was French in his musical training, as were the origins of both the plot and the score of this work, effectively in the tradition of Auber. (Flotow studied composition in Paris under Reicha, 1827–1830, and having left on account of the July revolution returned there from 1835–1848, and again from 1863–1868.)\n\nThe first performance of \"Martha\" took place at the Kärntnertortheater in Vienna on 25 November 1847. Other early productions followed in Weimar (16 February 1848), Dresden (1 March 1848), Leipzig (1 March 1848), and Berlin (7 March 1848). It was performed in Budapest in Hungarian (11 July 1848) and in Prague in German (24 March 1849) and in Czech (17 February 1850). There were several early productions in London, the first in German at Drury Lane (4 June 1849), followed by one in Italian at Covent Garden (1 July 1858) and another in English at Drury Lane (11 October 1858).\nIn the United States, it was produced in English at Niblo's Garden in New York City on 1 November 1852 with Anna Bishop, in New Orleans on 27 January 1860, in French. It had its first Australian performance in Melbourne on 24 June 1856.\n\nIt was first performed in France in Italian by the Théâtre-Italien at the Salle Ventadour in Paris on 11 February 1858 and in French at several provincial theatres beginning in December 1858 and at the Théâtre Lyrique in Paris on 18 December 1865. According to T. J. Walsh numerous editions of \"Kobbé's Opera Book\" have incorrectly given the date of the first performance at the Théâtre Lyrique as 16 December 1865. He also challenges Kobbé's statement that the aria \"M'appari\" (which Flotow composed for his earlier opera \"L'âme en peine\") was first introduced into the opera \"Martha\" at that theatre. He notes that it was sung by Mario at the Théâtre-Italien in 1858 and is also found (as \"Ach! so fromm\") in an early (probably 1848) Vienna edition of the score in the British Library and was probably always a part of the opera. The confusion may have arisen from further alterations made by the Théâtre Lyrique's director, Léon Carvalho, which included the insertion in Act 4 of Flotow's baritone aria \"Depuis le jour j'ai paré ma chaumière\" (also from \"L'âme en peine\").\n\nIn 1877, at the Royal Italian Opera in Covent Garden, Victor Capoul performed as Lyonel, with Francesco Graziani (baritone) as Plunkett and Sofia Scalchi as Nancy.\n\nThe popularity of \"Martha\" received a fresh boost in 1906 when it was staged at the New York Metropolitan Opera in a production that featured the great tenor Enrico Caruso, singing in Italian. Caruso would perform the role of Lyonel many times during subsequent seasons and record extracts from the Italian version of the opera. Recent productions in the United Kingdom have included those by Opera South in 1986 and 2009 and Bel Canto Opera in 2002. Those in the U.S have included Michigan Opera Theatre in 1985.\n\nLady Harriet Durham, a maid-of-honour to Queen Anne, is so tired of Court life, and so sick of her many insipid admirers, she retires to the country. But she becomes bored so she decides to attend the fair at Richmond where girls hire themselves out as servants. For a laugh, she and her confidante Nancy masquerade as maidservants. Her foppish old cousin, Sir Tristan, another admirer whom she deems a bore, accompanies them. Harriet manages to lose her escort, and then she and Nancy stand in the line of girls waiting to be hired. Two young farmers, Lyonel and Plunkett, are looking for a couple of wenches to do their housework and, being struck by the beauty and charm of the two masqueraders, proceed to hire them. Lady Harriet gives her name as Martha. The girls are soon dismayed to find they are legally bound to their new masters for a year. Sir Tristan is unable to retrieve them from their fate.\n\nQuickly, both farmers fall for their new maidservants — Lyonel for Harriet and Plunkett for Nancy. Harriet feels that Lyonel is of higher station than he appears. He is an orphan who was left with Plunkett's parents in early childhood. The new maids are totally inept at their tasks, which infuriates Plunkett. Finally, the new maids are told to go to bed, but escape through the window, with the aid of Sir Tristan. The young farmers are distressed and angry at the loss of their maids, and Lyonel's grief is so great that he falls into a melancholy state.\n\nWandering in the forest, Lyonel meets a royal hunting party and recognises Lady Harriet. He declares his love for her, but she rebuffs him. Lyonel reminds her of her contract to serve him for a year. She tells the party the young man is mad, and Sir Tristan supports her declaration. Orders are given to imprison the young man. Lyonel has a ring his father gave him, saying if he was ever in trouble he was to send the ring to the Queen. He begs his friend to take it to the court.\n\nThe ring saves Lyonel. The Queen recognises it as that of a banished nobleman, whose innocence has since been proven. Lady Harriet is now willing to accept his courtship as there is no longer a class difference to stand between them. She is filled with remorse for the way she has treated him. She reveals to him his true identity and tells him that his estate will be restored but he is blinded by anger with Harriet for the injustice she did him and refuses to accept her love. To win him back, Harriet and Nancy return to the fair once again dressed as country wenches. When Plunkett brings Lyonel to the fair and points out the two pretty serving-maids, Lyonel realises he does love Harriet. He embraces her, and they agree to marry, as do Plunkett and Nancy.\n\n\nThe overture itself is among von Flotow's most appreciated works. It begins with a slow A minor introduction, but changes suddenly to an A major theme (that of \"Lyonel's prayer\" in Act 3, \"Mag der Himmel Euch vergeben\"). It reverts to A minor with a busy, agitated motif, representing Lady Harriet and Nancy bustling about, leading into the C major \"peasant girls' chorus\" theme from Act 1. Then the agitated theme returns, but now in the major key of A. It leads without further modulation back to the \"Lyonel's prayer\" motif, and so the overture ends. The fluctuations of light and shade are reminiscent of Schubertian scoring, or of Weber (e.g. \"Der Freischütz\" overture): but without modulation into remote tonalities, they never really portend a tragic conclusion.\n\nThough the powerful overture hints at a darker outcome, the opera ends happily. The heroine's levity and Lyonel's sincerity are its themes. The dramatic music, as between Lyonel and Harriet in Act 4, is weighty, while the scoring of the comic scenes is also (but differently) effective. In his own idiom, like Mozart in \"Don Giovanni\" or Verdi in \"Un ballo in maschera\", von Flotow could build convivial music into a tragic dramatic context.\n\nThe Thomas Moore traditional Irish melody \"The Last Rose of Summer\", introduced for \"Martha\" in Act 2, was a successful inclusion. Popular airs were then often introduced informally to operas as show-pieces by sopranos, for example 'Home, Sweet Home' in the lesson scene of \"The Barber of Seville\". Singers such as Jenny Lind or Adelina Patti made much of them. In \"Martha\" the custom is formally perpetuated, and the melody then appears as a \"leitmotif\" to represent Lyonel's longing.\n\n\nA swing version of \"Ach so fromm\" (in English translation, retitled \"Martha\"), sung by Bea Wain, was a hit for Larry Clinton in 1938.\n\nThe Porterlied (\"Lasst mich euch fragen\") and the third act finale (\"Mag der Himmel Euch vergeben\") are featured (in a French translation) in the 1943 film \"Phantom of the Opera\".\n\nThe third act finale (\"Mag der Himmel Euch vergeben\") is also featured, in an English translation for \"May Heaven Grant You Pardon\", in the closing sequence of the short, \"The Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met\" also known as \"\"Willie, The Operatic Whale\"\" (when it was released as an individual short in 1954), which is part of Walt Disney's 1946 animated feature \"Make Mine Music\", where Willie the Whale's spirit continues to sing in Heaven for eternity, in a hundred voices (as the narrator, Nelson Eddy points out).\n\nThe title character from \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" sings \"Ach, so fromm\" during the \"Wonkawash\" sequence.\n\nIn the 1979 American film, \"Breaking Away\", Dave Stohler serenades \"Katerina\" outside her sorority house with the aria \"M' Apparì Tutt' Amor\", accompanied on guitar by his friend Cyril.\n\nThe aria \"The Last Rose of Summer\" is featured prominently in the 2017 drama film \"Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri\".\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1924291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924291", "title": "PFIQ", "text": "PFIQ\n\nPFIQ is the abbreviation for a publication known as Piercing Fans International Quarterly, which was published by Jim Ward from 1977 to 1997. It was the first publication about body piercing. Ward pioneered the field of body piercing and operated The Gauntlet, which was the first commercial establishment to offer the service in the United States.\n\nThe first issue of the magazine appeared in October 1977. The first 14 issues of \"PFIQ\" were in black and white with single-color highlights in a few issues. From issue #15 on, the covers and centerfolds were in full color. The first issue was 16 pages long; by issue #31, \"PFIQ\" had grown to 32 pages. Page count continued to gradually increase. Issue #50, the final issue, contained 64 pages. All issues were 8½×11\" in size.\n\nOnly the first five issues were dated on the cover, though most of them included a copyright year. However, every issue was independently numbered. In spite of calling itself a quarterly, the publication was chronically late and the average number of issues per year, over the lifetime of \"PFIQ\", was about 3.\n\nIssues #1 and #3 were reprinted in the 1980s. The reprints are not hard to distinguish from the originals. The original issue #1 was black and white with two spot colors; the reprint has only the purple on the cover. Issue #3 was a complete redesign and bears the words \"Revised Edition\" on the cover.\n\nTattoo Samy appeared in \"PFIQ\" #18 (1983) and #19 as the magazine’s first documented tongue piercing.\n\n\"PFIQ\" contained a wide variety of material, mostly about body piercing, but occasionally about other forms of body art and body modification. A long series of articles by Jim Ward, \"Pierce with a Pro,\" gave detailed information on how to perform many different piercings. Gauntlet also produced three \"how-to\" videos under the same title. Part 1 on male piercings appeared in 1988; part 2 covering female and unisex piercings was issued in 1994; part 3, an update of the first video came out in 1996.\n\nThe magazine contents also included interviews, accounts of piercings, letters from readers, book and video reviews, photographs, artwork, and fiction. PFIQ also contained advertising from a few businesses in closely related fields. Subscribers also received Pin Pals, a sheet of classified ads created to enable people with body piercings to meet each other.\n\n\"PFIQ\" was a controversial publication, due to its graphic portrayal of nudity and the piercing process. In some countries it was considered obscene, and confiscated by postal customs officials. It ceased publication in 1997 when Jim Ward sold Gauntlet. (Gauntlet failed under its new owner and closed in 1998.)\n\nFrank Zappa fans will also recognise \"PFIQ\" from the posthumous EIHN (Everything Is Healing Nicely) album, where excerpts are read out during the tracks Master Ringo and Wonderful Tattoo! Listen for the line \"Now air can get through.\" on the resolution of a problem with an intimate piercing that produces an odor, which results in a wave of hysterical laughter through the studio as non-English speaking members of Ensemble Modern hear the translation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924292", "title": "Plug flow", "text": "Plug flow\n\nIn fluid mechanics, plug flow is a simple model of the velocity profile of a fluid flowing in a pipe. In plug flow, the velocity of the fluid is assumed to be constant across any cross-section of the pipe perpendicular to the axis of the pipe. The plug flow model assumes there is no boundary layer adjacent to the inner wall of the pipe.\n\nThe plug flow model has many practical applications. One example is in the design of chemical reactors. Essentially no back mixing is assumed with \"plugs\" of fluid passing through the reactor. This results in differential equations that need to be integrated to find the reactor conversion and outlet temperatures. Other simplifications used are perfect radial mixing and a homogeneous bed structure.\n\nAn advantage of the plug flow model is that no part of the solution of the problem can be perpetuated \"upstream\". This allows one to calculate the exact solution to the differential equation knowing only the initial conditions. No further iteration is required. Each \"plug\" can be solved independently provided the previous plug's state is known.\n\nThe flow model in which the velocity profile consists of the fully developed boundary layer is known as pipe flow. In laminar pipe flow, the velocity profile is parabolic.\n\nFor flows in pipes, if flow is turbulent then the laminar sublayer caused by the pipe wall is so thin that it is negligible. Plug flow will be achieved if the sublayer thickness is much less than the pipe diameter (formula_1«\"D\").\n\nwhere formula_7 is the Darcy friction factor (from the above equation or the Moody Chart), formula_1 is the sublayer thickness, formula_9 is the pipe diameter, formula_10 is the density, formula_11 is the friction velocity (not an actual velocity of the fluid), formula_12 is the average velocity of the plug (in the pipe), formula_13 is the shear on the wall, and formula_14 is the pressure loss down the length formula_15 of the pipe. formula_16 is the relative roughness of the pipe.\nIn this regime the pressure drop is a result of inertia-dominated turbulent shear stress rather than viscosity-dominated laminar shear stress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924294", "title": "Drosera aliciae", "text": "Drosera aliciae\n\nDrosera aliciae, the Alice sundew, is a carnivorous plant in the family Droseraceae. It is native to the Cape Provinces of South Africa, like \"Drosera capensis\", the cape sundew, and is one of the most common sundews in cultivation. The plant forms small, tight rosettes of wedge-shaped leaves, up to 5 cm in diameter. Under conditions of good lighting, the insect-snagging tentacles will become deeply coloured with anthocyanin pigments, which probably aid in its attraction of insect prey. The plant is relatively easy to grow, and produces attractive scapes of pink flowers, which are held about 30 cm away from the carnivorous leaves, so as to prevent pollinators from becoming ensnared. \"D. aliciae\" is very similar in form to a number of other closely related species such as \"D. slackii\", and \"D. dielsiana\": the former is rather larger (8 cm diameter); the latter rather smaller (3 cm diameter).\n\n\"Drosera aliciae\" has received the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. \n"}
{"id": "1924299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924299", "title": "List of school districts in Monterey County, California", "text": "List of school districts in Monterey County, California\n\nList of school districts in Monterey County, California\n\nOn February 27, 2008, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Superintendent of Public Instruction, Jack O'Connell placed several school districts in the county in their list of school districts that need help due to the school's failure to raise their Standardized Testing and Reporting (STAR) Results under the No Child Left Behind Act for the past five years. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924302", "title": "The Merry Wives of Windsor (opera)", "text": "The Merry Wives of Windsor (opera)\n\nThe Merry Wives of Windsor (in German: Die lustigen Weiber von Windsor) is an opera in three acts by Otto Nicolai to a German libretto by Salomon Hermann Mosenthal based on the play \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" by William Shakespeare.\n\nThe opera is a \"Singspiel\", containing much spoken dialogue between distinct musical numbers. The opera remains popular in Germany, and the overture is sometimes heard in concert in other countries.\n\nOtto Nicolai composed the music from 1845 to 1849. He had previously achieved great success with a few Italian operas, but this opera was to become his masterpiece in the German language. The composer himself made some changes to the libretto.\n\nIt was difficult at first to find a stage that was willing to mount the opera, but following the premiere at the Königliches Opernhaus (Royal Opera House, now Berlin State Opera) in Berlin on 9 March 1849 under the baton of the composer, it achieved great success and its popularity continues to this day. Though the libretto and the dramaturgy may seem old-fashioned to today's audiences, the music is of such high quality that the work is nevertheless performed with increasing regularity.\n\n23 performances of four productions were planned in four German cities between March and July 2012.\n\nThe overture inspired the short musical film, \"Overture to The Merry Wives of Windsor\".\nEdwin Lemare also made a transcription for organ. In addition, Peter Richard Conte transcribed the score for the Wanamaker Organ.\n\n\"Scene 1\"\n\nTwo married ladies, Frau Fluth and Frau Reich, discover that they both received love letters from the impoverished nobleman Falstaff at the same time. They decide to teach him a lesson and withdraw to hatch a plan. Now the husbands of Frau Fluth and Frau Reich come in. Anna, Frau Reich's daughter, is of marriageable age and three gentlemen seek her hand in marriage: Dr. Cajus, a French beau, is her mother's favorite, and her father wants the shy nobleman Spärlich as his son-in-law, but Anna is in love with the penniless Fenton.\n\n\"Scene 2\"\n\nFrau Fluth has invited Falstaff to a supposed tryst, and he enters with grand romantic gestures and clumsily attempts to ensnare her. As Frau Reich reports the return of the distrustful Herr Fluth, which had been previously arranged, the old gentleman is hidden in a laundry basket, the contents of which are quickly emptied into a ditch. Herr Fluth has searched the whole house in the meantime without success and is forced to believe his wife, who protests her innocence.\n\n\"Scene 1\"\n\nAt the inn, Falstaff has recovered from his bath and sings bawdy drinking songs. A messenger brings him a letter, in which Frau Fluth proposes another rendezvous. Her husband appears in disguise and presents himself as Herr Bach to get Falstaff to talk about his trysts. He unsuspectingly brags about his affair with Frau Fluth, which provokes her husband's rage.\n\n\"Scene 2\"\n\nSpärlich and Cajus sneak around Anna's window, but before they attempt to go near, they hear Fenton's serenade and hide in the bushes. From there they observe a passionate love scene between the two lovers.\n\n\"Scene 3\"\n\nFalstaff is again with Frau Fluth, and Frau Reich again warns them both that Herr Fluth is on his way home. This time they dress the fat knight in women's clothes to try and pass him off as the maid. Herr Fluth enters and finds only the old maid, whom he angrily throws out of the house.\n\n\"Scene 1\"\n\nFluth and Reich are finally let in on the plan by their wives and the four of them decide to take Falstaff for a ride one last time. The knight is expected to show up at a grand masked ball in Windsor Forest. Additionally, Herr and Frau Reich each plan to take advantage of the confusion to marry Anna off to their preferred suitor. Instead, however, she has arranged a nighttime meeting with Fenton in the forest.\n\n\"Scene 2\"\n\nAfter the moonrise, depicted by the chorus and orchestra, the masked ball in the forest begins. At first, Falstaff, disguised as Ritter Herne, is lured by the two women, but then he is frightened by various other guests disguised as ghosts, elves, and insects. After the masks are removed and Falstaff is mocked by everyone, Anna and Fenton, who got married in the forest chapel, appear. In a cheerful closing number all of the parties are reconciled.\n\nThe opera follows the Singspiel tradition, in which musical numbers are connected by spoken dialog. Nicolai referred to the work as a \"komisch-fantastische Oper\" (\"comic/fantasy opera\"), reflecting its fusion of romantic opera in the style of Carl Maria von Weber and the comic operas of Albert Lortzing, which were very popular at the time. On the romantic side are the love scenes between Anna and Fenton, the ghost and elf music and, naturally, the moonrise. The opera buffa element comes into play with the figure of Falstaff, the husbands, and both of the suitors spurned by Anna.\n\n\nThe opera is scored for two flutes (second doubling piccolo), two oboes, two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, two trumpets, three trombones, timpani, bass drum, cymbals, tenor drum, triangle, harp, strings, plus offstage harp and offstage bell in G.\n\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1924307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924307", "title": "Abraham Lempel", "text": "Abraham Lempel\n\nAbraham Lempel (, born 10 February 1936) is an Israeli computer scientist and one of the fathers of the LZ family of lossless data compression algorithms.\n\nLempel was born on 10 February 1936 in Lwów, Poland (now Lviv, Ukraine). He studied at Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, and received a B.Sc. in 1963, M.Sc. in 1965, and D.Sc. in 1967. Since 1977 he has held the title of full professor. Lempel is now a professor emeritus in Technion.\n\nHis historically important works start with the presentation of the LZ77 algorithm in a paper entitled \"A Universal Algorithm for Sequential Data Compression\" in the \"IEEE Transactions on Information Theory\" (May 1977), co-authored by Jacob Ziv.\n\nHe is the recipient of the 1998 Golden Jubilee Award for Technological Innovation from the IEEE Information Theory Society; and the 2007 IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal, for \"pioneering work in data compression, especially the Lempel-Ziv algorithm\".\n\nLempel founded HP Labs—Israel in 1994, and served as its director until October 2007.\n\nThe LZ77 and LZ78 algorithms authored by Lempel and Jacob Ziv have led to a number of derivative works, including the Lempel–Ziv–Welch algorithm, used in the GIF image format, and the Lempel-Ziv-Markov chain algorithm, used in the 7-Zip and xz compressors. The algorithms have also been used as originally published in formats such as DEFLATE, used in the PNG image format.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924310", "title": "Karel Barvitius", "text": "Karel Barvitius\n\nKarel Josef Barvitius (born Karel Brodský on 9 December 1864 Německý Brod – 23 March 1937, Prague) was a publisher of books and music.\n\nAfter studies of law he tried a career as a composer. In 1897 he set up a shop with musical instruments and in 1914 added music and book publishing. Published works were known for both high quality and low price. His son Karel Barvitius (1893–1949) continued in his work but in 1949 the publishing house got nationalized and became part of Supraphon company.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924313", "title": "Ham, London", "text": "Ham, London\n\nHam is a suburban district in south-west London in the Richmond district which has meadows adjoining the River Thames where the Thames Path National Trail also runs. Most of Ham is in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames and, chiefly, within the ward of Ham, Petersham and Richmond Riverside; the rest is in the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames. The district has modest convenience shops and amenities, including a petrol station and several pubs, but its commerce is subsidiary to the nearby regional-level economic centre of Kingston upon Thames.\n\nHam is centred south-west of the centre of London. Together with Petersham, Ham lies east of the bend in the river almost surrounding it on three sides, south of Richmond and north of Kingston upon Thames. Its elevation mostly ranges between 6m and 12m OD but reaches 20m in the foothill side-streets leading to Richmond Park. It has the Thames Path National Trail and is connected to Teddington by a large Lock Footbridge at Teddington Lock, and during the summer months Hammerton's Ferry a pedestrian ferry links it to Marble Hill House, Twickenham.\n\nApart from semi-rural Petersham, Richmond Park and the town of Kingston, the neighbouring land is on the opposite side of the river: Teddington and Twickenham (including Strawberry Hill).\n\nHam is bounded on the west, along the bank of the River Thames, by ancient communal river meadows forming a Local Nature Reserve called Ham Lands. Part of this former pasture land was used for gravel extraction. The last remnant of these gravel pits now forms an artificial lake, connected to the river by a lock. In this area is the Thames Young Mariners site, operated as a water activity centre by Surrey County Council. The area along the riverside is preserved as a public amenity and nature reserve.\n\nMostly on low-lying river terrace, Ham today is bounded to the east by Richmond Park, where the land rises at the escarpment of the Richmond and Kingston hills. Small streams that drain this higher ground flow into a watercourse that flows south-north along the foot of the hill, known as Latchmere Stream to the south and \"Sudbrook\" to the north. Now subterranean for most of its course, it emerges in Ham Common, near Ham Gate and flows briefly through Richmond Park and exits into Sudbrook Park Golf Course, returning underground before discharging into the Thames at Petersham.\n\nHam lies within the London Basin and its London clay bedrock. The low-lying flood plains to the west consist of fluvial gravels, sands and clay. To the east, within Richmond Park, a more erosion-resistant fluvio-glacial deposit of gravels laid down in the interglacial period between 240,000 and 400,000 years ago forms the escarpment ridge that runs north-south between the Richmond and Kingston hills.\n\nThe name derives from the Old English word \"Hamme\" meaning \"place in the bend of a river\".\n\nThe Thames Valley has been inhabited since the Palaeolithic period and finds of Palaeolithic flints near to White Lodge, Richmond Park show that Ham was part of early human territory. Later, Mesolithic, flints found at Ham dip, Dann's Pond and Pen Ponds within the park are also evidence of early habitation as are Neolithic barrows on the ridge of the hill overlooking Petersham, Ham and Kingston. These have not been excavated, so it is impossible to date them precisely, but barrows are known to span the period from 3500BC to 900BC. Several surface finds of flint tools, axes, adzes, scrapers, awls chisels and knives as well as arrowheads, hammer stones and flint shards were made during gravel workings in Ham Fields at \"Coldharbour\", near to the present day Thames Young Mariners site () and further east in maize fields now covered by housing. These finds are made from high quality flint from the North Downs rather than local river-bourne flints from the Thames Valley, implying human transportation and a settled rather than nomadic lifestyle in the area. Many of these artifacts are part of the \"Edwards Collection\" and housed in the Museum of Richmond. Other finds from Ham are held at the Museum of London including an early Bronze Age collared urn, also from the Edwards Collection.\n\nA few finds of Romano British pottery from the late Iron Age, mid 1st and early 2nd centuries AD show that the area remained inhabited to some extent, though the closest indications of modest Roman settlements are further south in the Canbury area of North Kingston.\n\nThe first early Saxon settlement found in the Greater London area was a Pit-house, or \"\", excavated at Ham in the early 1950s. Along with pottery finds dated to the 5th century AD, this suggests the area was amongst the first colonised by Saxon settlers.\n\nHam does not appear in Domesday Book of 1086, the nearest entries being Petersham to the north and Coombe to the south-east, all, including the area of Ham, within the hundred of the town of Kingston to the south.\n\nHistorically, Ham covered a larger area. The boundaries shown in the tithe map of 1843 are believed to have changed little, if at all, for centuries. The southern boundary between Ham and Kingston spanned the width of the hundred, from near present-day Canbury Gardens on the Thames, about eastwards crossing Richmond Park to Beverley Brook. The northern boundary returned through Richmond Park from Beverley Brook, south of White Lodge through the northern Pen Pond, across Sudbrook Park westwards towards Ham Street then veering north back to the Thames.\n\nThe earliest known written record of Ham as a separate village dates from the 12th century when \"Hamma\" was included in the royal demesne as a member of Kingston, contributing 43\"s\". 4\"d\". in 1168 towards the marriage of Matilda, the eldest daughter of Henry II.\n\nBetween the Royal Courts at Richmond and Hampton Court, Ham's predominantly agricultural area developed from the beginning of the 17th century, with the construction of Ham House in 1610, the best-preserved survivor of the period. The related history of the Earls of Dysart dominated the development of Ham and Petersham for the following four centuries.\n\nWhen the park was enclosed by Charles I in 1637, Ham parish lost the use of most of the affected land, over stretching towards Robin Hood Gate and Kingston Hill, almost half of which was common land. In return for this, a deed was struck which has effectively protected most of the remaining common land, Ham Common, to the present day. The enclosed land, whilst lost to agriculture, remained within Ham's administrative boundaries.\n\nThe whole area was referred to as Ham cum Hatch, or Ham with Hatch, until late Victorian times. The enclosure of Richmond Park disrupted the former common land link between the settlements near the present Upper Ham Road and an ancient small settlement near the park's Robin Hood Gate and A3, London road. Local historian, Evelyn Pritchard, assumed that the Robin Hood lands settlement was the location of \"Hatch\", but more detailed examination of Petersham, Ham and Canbury manorial land records by John Cloake provides evidence that Hatch was a hamlet centred around the north-east area of Ham Common, whilst \"Ham\" itself lay to the west and north-west of the present common, on the Ham Street approach to the Thames.\n\nBetween 1838 and 1848, Ham Common was the site of a Utopian spiritual community and free school called Alcott House (or the \"Ham Common Concordium\"), founded by educational reformer and \"sacred socialist\" James Pierrepont Greaves and his followers. Hesba Stretton (real name Sarah Smith), the Evangelical children's writer, retired to Ivycroft, Ham Common in 1892 and died there in 1912.\n\nThere is a memorial bench outside the Sainsbury's store (formerly Barclays Bank) at Ham Parade to commemorate Angela Woolliscroft, who was murdered in 1976 during a bank robbery.\n\nSince 1965 Ham has been mostly in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames. The rest is in London Borough of Kingston upon Thames. The boundaries between these two boroughs have changed slightly since they were first established.\n\nAs the system of hundreds and manors declined, Ham from 1786 was administered by a local \"vestry\", but as Ham lacked a church of its own until 1832 (and a true vestry until it was enlarged in 1890), it met in the \"New Inn\".\n\nThe Poor Law Amendment Act 1834 established a Board of Guardians, comprising 21 elected guardians for Kingston and its surrounding parishes. Ham always had one or two representatives, but sent very few of its poor to the workhouse, mainly assisting them locally in almshouses.\nHam Common Local Government District was formed under the Local Government Act 1858 and was governed by a local board of eight members. However, the vestry system continued in practice until the formation of a local government board in 1871. The Local Government Act 1894 reconstituted the area as Ham Urban District, with an elected urban district council of ten members replacing the local board. It consisted of the civil parish of Ham with Hatch, which was renamed \"Ham\" in 1897.\n\nThe urban district was abolished in 1933, when a county review order included it in an enlarged Municipal Borough of Richmond. The main impact on Ham was that the northern area was linked with Petersham to create a \"Sudbrook\" ward, whilst the boundary with Kingston was moved further north to more or less its present limit with Ham \"losing\" the factories and surrounding land and housing. This substantial boundary change makes meaningful demographic analysis very difficult. The ward itself is now Ham, Petersham and Richmond Riverside. This contains the largest proportion of Richmond Park and of all six main wards which adjoin it.\n\nHam was an agricultural community for centuries, with meadow and pasture land mostly along the river, and common grazing. The tithe map of 1842 showed a total area of , but when adjusted for the land in Richmond Park, were arable, meadow or pasture, was common land, and only woodland. The crops were mainly wheat, barley and oats. with some flax, potatoes, turnips and mangel wurzels. Livestock included cows, sheep, pigs, goats, ducks and chickens as well as horses and donkeys – many of which grazed the common land. Ham had three farms at the time, all on land owned by the Earl of Dysart. Unusually, these remained very little enclosed and the open field system survived in use until the late 19th century. Improvement in transport and the growth of London led to a shift from general mixed agriculture to market gardening by the early 20th century. Ultimately, the same growth fuelled demand for housing land, and this factor along with the greater profitability of gravel extraction on land that could not be used for housing, meant that agriculture in Ham had ceased by the mid-1950s.\n\nIn 1904 William Tollemache, 9th Earl of Dysart leased part of the farmland to the \"Ham River Grit Company Ltd\" to extract sand and ballast. A dock was constructed in 1913 and a lock in 1921, parts of which remain as the Thames Young Mariners water activity centre. A narrow-gauge railway linked the site to the main road. During the Second World War the flooded pits were reputed to have been used to store sections of the Mulberry harbour. After the war, most of the pits were filled with bomb-damage rubble from London. The pits operated until 1952, after which some of the land was used for subsequent housing development. Local resistance to further development led to the area being designated Metropolitan Open Land, preserving \"Ham Riverside Lands\" as a nature reserve. It has notably unusual vegetation due to the underlying alkaline rubble instead of the more acidic fluvial deposits.\n\nTowards the end of World War I, Lord Dysart sold some land south of Ham Common to the Ministry of Munitions for the construction of an aircraft factory on land adjoining what was then still called \"Upper Ham Road\". \"National Aircraft Factory No.2\" was built in 26 weeks during the winter of 1917. The factory was leased to the Sopwith Aviation Company, based a mile to the south in Canbury Park Road, Kingston, and the company were able to increase greatly its production of Snipe, Dolphin and Salamander fighter planes as a result. At the end of the war, demand ceased. Sopwith tried to buy the factory outright but the government refused. Sopwith Aviation went into voluntary liquidation and reformed in 1920 as H. G. Hawker Engineering at their original Kingston base.\nThe remaining Ham Factory lease was sold to Leyland Motors, which initially used it to recondition ex-War Department lorries for civilian use. It was then used to produce under licence the Trojan Utility Car between 1922 and 1928. During the 1930s, the factory produced Leyland Cub trucks. World War II shifted production to military vehicles, fire engines, other equipment and munitions. After the war the site produced the chassis for Leyland's trolleybus.\nIn 1948 the site was sold back to Hawker Aircraft Ltd and it became the main base for Kingston's aviation industry. The Hawker Hunter was produced there in large numbers, driven by cold war demand. The profits allowed the site to be redeveloped as Hawker's UK headquarters and the factory gained an imposing frontage by 1958 in a building that closely linked design and production. The Ham factory played an integral part in the development of the Hawker Kestrel and Hawker Harrier planes. Following the nationalisation of the aircraft industry in 1977. British Aerospace continued to build Harriers and missile kits at the site. Following privatisation in 1985, the site's closure was announced in 1991. It was demolished in 1993 and replaced by further housing development.\n\nIn 1929 the site on the opposite side of the road to the Leyland factory was developed for the \"Cellon Doping Company\", originally producing Cellon aircraft dope, a synthetic varnish used to waterproof aircraft fabric. The company became part of Pinchin Johnson and was acquired by Courtaulds in 1960, continuing under the International Paint group banner from 1968. The factory closed in the 1980s and the site was redeveloped as a small industrial estate.\n\nApart from one plant nursery, local community, retail and small scale offices, Ham today is predominately a commuter residential area dependent on employment outside the immediate area.\n\nThe main feature in Ham is Ham Common which has a cricket pitch, a pond and a woodland.\n\nA straight tree-lined path leads from Ham Common to Ham House, the most significant house in Ham. The section of the path from Ham Common to Sandy Lane is called Great South Avenue and the section from Sandy Lane to Ham House is called Melancholy Walk.\n\nSeveral notable period houses in Ham cluster around the Common including the Cassel Hospital, Langham House and Ormeley Lodge, which is currently owned by Lady Annabel Goldsmith. Victorian buildings include Latchmere House.\n\nIn contrast, Langham House Close, to the west of Ham Common, completed in 1958, is an early example of brutalist architecture and just to the north of Ham Parade is \"Parkleys\". Started in 1954 and completed in 1956, Parkleys was the first large-scale residential development by the pioneering SPAN Developments Ltd of Eric Lyons and Geoffrey Townsend.\n\nThere are four churches: Ham Christian Centre, St Andrew's Church, St Thomas Aquinas Church and St Richard's Church.\nHam is served by three bus routes: the 65, 371 and K5. All link the town with Kingston upon Thames, with the first two serving Richmond.\nThe Ham and Petersham Cricket Club was established in 1815 and cricket is still played on Ham Common.\n\nThe Ham Polo Club is at the end of a driveway off the Petersham Road. Though the club has been in existence since 1926 it was in 1954 that the old orchard of Ham House was converted into a polo ground for the club.\n\nThe \"Ham and Petersham Lawn Tennis Club\" has courts on the south avenue to Ham House in conjunction with Grey Court School.\n\nThe former meadow land along the Thames near to Ham House became the location of a King George's Field in the 1930s. Covering , it provides cricket, football and tennis facilities. Several sports clubs and activities are based on and near to it.\n\nThe \"Ham and Petersham Rifle and Pistol Club\", dating from 1907 or perhaps earlier, is near to Ham House, with both indoor and outdoor ranges and caters for archery, pistol and rifle shooting.\n\nThe \"Kew and Ham Sports Association\" provides football and baseball facilities on the playing fields between Ham House and Thames Young Mariners.\n\nThe Richmond Baseball and Softball Club plays its home games during the summer season at Connare Field and Flood Field in Ham.\n\nThe Thames Young Mariners provides sailing, canoeing, open-water swimming and other sport and outdoor activity facilities.\n\n\n\nThe film \"The Boy in the Dress\" based on the novel by David Walliams was largely filmed in Ham. For example the local newspaper-shop used in the film is opposite St Richard's Church, Ham, and other scenes were filmed at Grey Court School.\n\nScenes from \"Now You See Me 2\" were also filmed in Ham.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924323", "title": "Mr Don &amp; Mr George", "text": "Mr Don &amp; Mr George\n\nMr Don & Mr George was a Channel 4 sitcom, featuring two characters from the Scottish comedy sketch show \"Absolutely\". Moray Hunter (Don) and Jack Docherty (George) played two unrelated characters who happened to share a surname (McDiarmid). Hunter and Docherty wrote the series and it was made by their production company, Absolutely Productions. The humour was surreal and often featured ridiculous visual gags and wordplay. A single six-episode series was made, and was first broadcast in the United Kingdom on Channel 4 in 1993.\n\nThe series was released on VHS (two tapes, each featuring three episodes) in the 1990s. A single VHS tape was released with all six episodes on as well. This tape stated that it had the entire first series on one tape, however no further series were made.\n\nArmed with a matchbox full of 34 deadly sulphur guns, Don and George set out on a deadly post-cold-war mission - to find someone to spy on.\n\nThe police net closes in on Don, following his theft of an apple as a child. George is so tense he is in danger of exploding. A holiday not to Switzerland is the only answer.\n\nDon has fallen for Miss Burns the air hostess. Naturally, George tries to have his friend arrested for conspiring to go out on a date. A tale of love, jealousy and trembling lower lips.\n\nDon strikes a lucrative business deal with the Ecuadorean government. One problem. Don & George don't have a business. However, they do have two hundred boxes of cornflakes, enough to build a splendid office.\n\nGeorge is going to pieces, drinking three bottles of whisky a day. Don, and a mysterious approach from Hollywood, convince George to get fit. Just in time, coincidentally, for George's boxing match with Dennis \"Killer\" Bowles.\n\nDon's tenure of friendship with George expires. But Don owes money for the rental of his spectacles, so George has little option but to pawn his friend. Unfortunately, Don is purchased by two former Nazis as a large timepiece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924328", "title": "Publius Cornelius Lentulus", "text": "Publius Cornelius Lentulus\n\nPublius Cornelius Lentulus was the name of a number of notable Romans:\n\n"}
{"id": "1924331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924331", "title": "A9home", "text": "A9home\n\nThe A9home was a niche small-form-factor desktop computer running RISC OS Adjust32. It was officially unveiled at the 2005 Wakefield Show, and is the second commercial ARM-based RISC OS computer to run a 32-bit version of RISC OS. When the Iyonix PC was withdrawn from sale, the A9home remained the only hardware to be manufactured specifically for the marketplace.\n\nThe A9home was smaller than the Mac Mini and housed in cobalt-blue aluminium casing, measuring × × in size. The machine runs on a Samsung ARM9 processor, has 128 MB SDRAM of main memory and VRAM and houses an internal hard disk of . On the front, it features two ports, a microphone and a headphones socket. On the rear, it has two ports, two PS/2 ports, 10/100 BaseT network port, a RS-232 serial port and a power connection socket. Like the Mac mini, it is powered by an external PSU (, ). Furthermore, it has a power/reset switch, a status/health indicator and a drive activity indicator LED. The A9home is not designed to be internally expanded.\n\nThe A9home could use a program called Aemulor to emulate older 26-bit applications. This was originally developed for Castle's Iyonix PC.\n\nIn April 2006, Advantage Six Ltd announced that they were focussing on connectivity in the run-up to that year's Wakefield Show. At the show, they demonstrated integrated Bluetooth. Although the A9home was officially released for purchase by end users, its custom version of remained unfinished. , RISCOS Ltd closed after failing to release any information in 2012 about when or if the OS will become feature complete.\n\nIn 2004, RISCOS Ltd privately began work on a version of RISC OS that supported 32-bit addressing modes found on later ARM architectures, RISC OS Adjust (Adjust 32), which is compatible with current ARM processors and designed for both embedded and desktop forms. The first, and so far only, machine to make use of the 32-bit version of the OS is the Advantage6 A9home. It was released in May 2006 after a 12-month Beta testing process, although the current build of Adjust 32, namely RISC OS 4.42, is a prerelease and no final version of the OS has yet been released. It was intended to be the first in a series of machines, with others running Linux.\n\nBoth 26- and 32-bit builds of new RISC OS 4 releases can now be compiled from the same source code, but will have to be modified to run on each individual machine supported, as the OS has no HAL at present. Instead it has a hardware-abstracted kernel, which allows specific code to be substituted for each platform supported.\n\nThe A9home was the retail version of the A9, for OEM customers was the A9 also available in a half-width single rack unit (1U) rack mountable ruggedised case, \"A9RM\" and as a wall/bulkhead-mountable unit with integral TFT touchscreen, GPS and GSM/GPRS, \"A9Loc\". These were marketed from about 2004 through 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924338", "title": "Mangled Demos from 1983", "text": "Mangled Demos from 1983\n\nMangled Demos from 1983 is a collection of various recordings from the earliest incarnation of American rock group Melvins first recorded in 1983, then remastered and released on Ipecac Records in 2005. \n\nUntil 2005, none of the material, with the exception of the first version of \"Forgotten Principles\", had ever been officially released. A few tracks included in this album have previously appeared on bootleg releases. It is the only record featuring the original lineup (Buzz Osborne/Matt Lukin/Mike Dillard). Tracks 3-13 were recorded at Mud Bay, a suburb of Olympia, Washington, for possible album release. Ultimately the album was not released at the time, as no record label was interested in the Melvins until 1985.\n\nDespite the album's title, Allmusic described the sound quality as \"surprisingly good.\"\n\n\"Some song titles were lost over time, they are listed with symbols.\"\n\nThe vinyl version of Mangled Demos From 1983 was released on Alternative Tentacles as a double 10\" record. Notably, it features a small booklet hidden amongst the vinyl with liner notes by Buzz Osborne detailing life in Washington around 1983 with almost no details on the actual record or recording itself, done in a similar fashion to the liner notes in 26 Songs and Gluey Porch Treatments. The last two tracks (both of which being short silent tracks) are omitted from the vinyl release.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924339", "title": "Battle Fleet", "text": "Battle Fleet\n\nThe United States Battle Fleet or Battle Force was part of the organization of the United States Navy from 1922 to 1941.\n\nThe General Order of 6 December 1922 organized the United States Fleet, with the Battle Fleet as the Pacific presence. This fleet comprised the main body of ships in the Navy, with the smaller Scouting Fleet as the Atlantic presence. The battleships, including most of the modern ones, and new aircraft carriers were assigned to this fleet.\n\nOn September 1, 1923, the Battle Fleet was under the command of Admiral Samuel S. Robison. Battleships, Battle Fleet was under the command of Vice Admiral Henry A. Wiley, with his flag aboard . Battleship Division Three, under Rear Admiral Louis M. Nulton, consisted of (F), under Captain A. M. Proctor, under Captain W. F. Scott, and under Captain H. H. Christy, which was also the Battle Fleet flagship. Battleship Division Four, under Rear Admiral William Veazie Pratt, comprised (F), under Captain J. R. Y. Blakely, , , and . Battleship Division Five under Vice Admiral Wiley himself comprised , , , and . Aircraft Squadrons, Battle Fleet, under Captain A. W. Marshall, comprised (F), , and the tender . Destroyer Squadrons, Battle Fleet, under Rear Admiral Sumner E. W. Kittelle, comprised Destroyer Squadron 11 and Destroyer Squadron 12. Submarine Divisions, Pacific, was under Captain A. Bronson, Jr.\n\nIn 1930, the name of the fleet was changed to \"Battle Force\", but the structure remained the same. In 1931, the force was based in Pearl Harbor and consisted of a majority of the United States' surface fleet: all of the newer battleships, all of the carriers, a light cruiser squadron and \"three or four\" destroyer squadrons were all a part of the Battle Force. In 1939, the Battle Force had five aircraft carriers, 12 battleships, 14 light cruisers, and 68 destroyers.\n\nOn 1 February 1941, General Order 143 reorganized the United States Fleet with three separate fleets, the United States Atlantic Fleet, the United States Pacific Fleet and the Asiatic Fleet.\n"}
{"id": "1924342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924342", "title": "Drosera capensis", "text": "Drosera capensis\n\nDrosera capensis, commonly known as the Cape sundew, is a small rosette-forming carnivorous species of perennial sundew native to the Cape in South Africa. Because of its size, easy to grow nature, and the copious amounts of seed it produces, it has become one of the most common sundews in cultivation, and thus, one of the most frequently introduced and naturalised invasive Drosera species.\n\n\"D. capensis\" produces strap-like leaves, up to long (not including the petiole) and wide, which, as in all sundews, are covered in brightly coloured tentacles which secrete a sticky mucilage that traps arthropods. It is a perennial, herbaceous plant that forms a rosette with a diameter of 18 to 25 cm and is characterized by numerous, reddish glandular erosions on 7 cm long and 5 mm wide, elongated leaves.\n\nThe plant flowers in summer (December and January in its native habitat in South Africa) with up to 50 pale-violet, more than 2 cm large flowers sitting on up to 35 cm high racemose inflorescences. The flowers can self-pollinate upon closing and produce copious quantities of very small, spindle-shaped seeds, which are released from the capsules that form when the flowers have died. The plant thrives in full sun locations on nutrient-poor, waterlogged and lime-free soils.\n\nWhen insects are first trapped, the leaves roll lengthwise by thigmotropism toward the center. This aids digestion by bringing more digestive glands in contact with the prey. The plant leaf surrounds the prey within an hour while tentacles continue to move to further trap the prey. Digestion takes well over 6 hours after a prey's original ensnarement. The plant has a tendency to retain the dead leaves of previous seasons, and the main stem of the plant can become quite long and woody with time.\n\nThe plant captures their prey by luring it through the dazzling digestive secretions produced on the tentacles of the leaves. The secretion acts on the one hand as a visual signal, as it shines in the sun and shines through the red tentacle tip, on the other hand, it is also a chemical attractant that attracts insects.\n\nIf a victim has been caught in the secretion of the tentacles, then all the tentacles near the victim align themselves on this, until at some point the whole leaf has wrapped around the animal. With the help of the digestive secret the insect is now decomposed until only the chitin armor remains. The absorption of nutrients takes place via the red tentacle tips, where the secretion itself is produced. If the victim is decomposed enough that the plant can not gain further nutrients, the leaf and the tentacles return to their original position.\n\nThe sundew secretes mucin to trap prey items – often insects and arthropods. The mucin is approximately 4% of an acidic polysaccharide in an aqueous solution with a pH of approximately 4. Fresh mucin can be stretched up to a meter in length thread. The mucin secretions of \"Drosera capensis\" has a high viscosity - this suggests that the mucin contains a predominant composition of acidic polysaccharide that interact extensively and are highly hydrated.\n\n\"Drosera capensis\" has two color forms; red and white. When fruit flies were introduced to the two differently colored plants, there was no difference between the means of the flies captured. Fruit flies seemed to have no preference over the color of the plant. Increased photosynthesis was observed when fed with fruit flies. Previously, it has been hypothesized that plant coloration has been used to attract prey items along with olfactory signals. This hypothesis has been disproven in \"Drosera capensis\" white and red forms as coloration is due to anthocyanin - or the lack of – and does not affect the UV coloration of the plant which, along with olfactory signals, attracts prey items.\n\nIn early summer or late spring, \"D. capensis\" produces multiple, small, five-petaled pink flowers at the end of scapes which can be up to tall. Flowers individually open in the morning and close by mid afternoon, lasting just one day each with the next one up the scape opening the following day; the lower ones on the scape can thus be open or \"past\" while the ones at the top are still forming.\n\nUnder horticultural conditions, carnivorous plant enthusiasts find that these seeds have a tendency to find their way into neighbouring plant pots where they germinate readily, giving \"D. capensis\" a reputation as a weed.\n\n\"Drosera capensis\" has several forms or varieties, including the \"typical\", \"wide-leaved\", \"narrow-leaved\" and \"red\" forms and the cultivar \"Drosera\" 'Albino'. The typical form is noted for wider leaves and the gradual production of a scrambling stem as it grows. The \"wide-leaved\" form is similar to the \"typical\" variety, but produces leaves at least 50% wider than the typical variety. The narrow-leaved form differs from the typical form in that it rarely produces tall stems; has thinner, longer leaves and less hair on the plant. \"Drosera capensis\" 'Albino', is also similar in shape to the \"typical\" form, but lacks most of the red pigmentation of the typical or narrow forms, with clear or pink trichomes and white flowers. There is also the \"red\" form that turns blood red in full sunlight, and is also similar physically to the narrow-leaved form. These varieties are commercially available.\n\n\"Drosera capensis\" \"narrow-leaved\" has won the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. \n\n\"Drosera capensis\" can be easily propagated through a variety of methods including seed, leaf cuttings, and root cuttings. It is not easily killed by temperature extremes of a short duration, and is generally a forgiving plant to grow. Additionally, \"D. capensis\" does not undergo dormancy like some sundews. It is among the easiest of carnivorous plants to keep indoors. It grows very well in open air, on a sunny windowsill, as long as it is kept in an inch or two of mineral-free water. It does not require a terrarium although it can benefit from one.\n\nThe ideal substrate is composed of 70% of blonde peat and 30% of non-calcareous sand. The ideal temperature varies between 5 and 15 °C in winter and between 20 and 40 °C in summer, for a hygrometry of 40 to 80%. Moist soil must be maintained year-round by the presence of a saucer under the pot, but watering must be reduced and the saucer removed in winter. High ambient humidity allows the preservation of mucilage. An exposure in full sun suits it perfectly, although a place a little less sunny may be suitable.\n\n\"Drosera capensis\" is listed on the New Zealand National Pest Plant Accord due to it being classified as an invasive species in that country, where they cannot be bought at plant retailers and should not be traded by carnivorous plant partisans. They have been planted in the wild or unintentionally introduced through soil contaminated by seeds with plantings of pitcher plants and water lilies. They are now beginning to spread on their own, potentially with help from water birds.\n\n\"Drosera capensis\" have also been found in Australia. Currently it has only been found in New South Wales but understanding the species distribution is essential to managing the species in the future. It has also been found in the state of California and classified as a naturalized weed. Alongside Australia, California and New Zealand, \"Drosera capensis\" have also been found in peat bogs in South America. It is currently classified as an invasive species.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924350", "title": "Calumet Farm", "text": "Calumet Farm\n\nCalumet Farm is a Thoroughbred breeding and training farm established in 1924 in Lexington, Kentucky, United States by William Monroe Wright, founding owner of the Calumet Baking Powder Company. Calumet is located in the heart of the Bluegrass, a well-known horse breeding region. Calumet Farm has a record history of Kentucky Derby and Triple Crown winners and throughout its history of over 87 years, it has produced some of the greatest Thoroughbred horses of all time.\n\nThough Calumet was initially based in Libertyville, Illinois, the more favorable climate of Kentucky made it a better place for a horse farm and led to W. M. Wright acquiring the land and relocating his Standardbred breeding operation. At a time in American history when harness racing was the most popular type of horse racing, in 1931 the farm's trotter \"Calumet Butler\" won the most prestigious event of the day, the Hambletonian.\n\nFollowing the death of W. M. Wright, in 1932 his son Warren Wright, Sr. took over the business and began converting it to Thoroughbred breeding and training. His acquisition of quality breeding stock saw Calumet Farm develop into one of North America's most successful stables in Thoroughbred racing history. Calumet Farm was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1991. The Pennsylvania Railroad named its baggage car #5868 the \"Calumet Farm\".\n\nThe farm's breeding success was notably anchored by a part ownership in Blenheim, a stallion imported from England, and its Foundation Sire, Bull Lea. Calumet Farm has produced eight Kentucky Derby winners, more than any other operation in U.S. racing history. As well, Calumet Farm is both the leading breeder and owner of Preakness Stakes winners with seven each. From the farm's many great foals, two colts also won the U.S. Triple Crown and three females won the Triple Crown for fillies.\n\nUnder Warren Wright, Sr. and his wife Lucille Parker Wright who inherited the property on his death in 1950, Calumet was the number one money-earning farm in racing for twelve years. Among the farm's best-known horses are Nellie Flag, Armed, Two Lea, Mar-Kell, A Gleam, Twilight Tear, Mark-Ye-Well, A Glitter, Bewitch, Coaltown, Real Delight, Bardstown, Our Mims, Davona Dale, Alydar, and Before Dawn.\n\nThe names of the Calumet Farm official winners of the Kentucky Derby, and the years they won, are: Whirlaway (1941), Pensive (1944), Citation (1948), Ponder (sired by Pensive - 1949), Hill Gail (1952), Iron Liege (1957), Tim Tam (1958), Forward Pass (1968 by DQ). <br>\nTwo of these greats, (Whirlaway (1941) and Citation (1948)) are the United States Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing champions. In all, the farm produced eleven horses that have been inducted into the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame.\n\nLucille Wright died in 1982 and according to the terms of her husband's will, the farm went to the heirs of their only child Warren Wright, Jr. (1920–1978). Son-in-law John Thomas Lundy (J.T.), married to Lucille \"Cindy\" Wright, took over as head of operations and president.\n\nCalumet Farm won the 1990 Eclipse Award for Outstanding Breeder. In November of that year, details surrounding the death of 15-year-old Alydar - America's leading sire of the time - and the collection of a $36 million insurance policy brought a cloud of suspicion over the business. Under Calumet president J.T. Lundy, mismanagement and fraud had left the farm with a massive debt load that led Calumet Farms to file for bankruptcy protection in 1991 as they were losing one million dollars a month. After years of legal proceedings, in 2000, J.T. Lundy along with Gary Matthews, the farm's former attorney and chief financial officer, were convicted of fraud and bribery and sent to prison.\n\nIn 1992, a trust established by Henryk de Kwiatkowski, a Polish-born Canadian citizen, purchased Calumet Farm, saving it from possible liquidation. Since 1992, the farm has been fully restored to its former beauty.\n\nIn 2012, the Calumet Investment Group bought Calumet Farm from the de Kwiatkowski Trust for over $36 million. Calumet Investment Group in turn leased it to Brad M. Kelley, believed to be a member of the investment group. Kelley's horses race under the name of Calumet Farm, but they carry Kelley's black and gold racing colors, as the original \"Devil's Red and Blue\" silks of Calumet had been sold to a Brazilian investment group. The win of Oxbow in the 2013 Preakness Stakes marked the return of Calumet to the winner's circle of a Triple Crown race for the first time since 1968.\n"}
{"id": "1924352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924352", "title": "Sophie Swetchine", "text": "Sophie Swetchine\n\nAnne Sophie Swetchine (\"née\" Sofia Petrovna Soymonova; November 22, 17821857), known as Madame Swetchine, was a Russian mystic, born in Moscow, and famous for her salon in Paris. \n\nShe was born Sofia Petrovna Soymonova (sometimes Soïmonov or Soymanof) on 22 November 1782 in Moscow, the daughter of Secretary of State Peter Alexandrovich Soimonov (1734–1801) and his wife, Catherine Boltin (1756–1790).\n\nShe spent her early years at the court of Empress Catherine the Great, as her father was one of the empress's closest advisors. She was given a good education, learned to speak several European languages and was popular at court. In 1797, she was made lady-in-waiting to Empress Maria Fedorovna. In 1799, Sophie married General Nicholas Sergeyevich Swetchine. Even though he was his wife's senior by 25 years, their relationship was described by contemporaries as a good one, though the couple did not have children, which is said to have caused her suffering. \n\nIt was perhaps also in part the reason for her turning to religion, which was to play a great part in her life. Coming from Russian Orthodoxy, in 1815 she became a Catholic, largely as the result of reading the writings of Joseph de Maistre, though she had also been under the influence of the Jesuits. Russian law did not permit members of the Russian nobility who had converted from the Orthodox religion to continue living in Russia, and so Sophie was forced to live in exile, choosing Paris as her new home. There she settled with her husband the following year and there she was to spend the rest of her life.\n\nFrom 1826 until her death in 1856, she kept a salon at number 71, Rue Saint-Dominique. It became famous and was considered remarkable for its high level of courtesy and for its intellectual level. At it she often received Russian exiles, but her guests, who included Victor Cousin and Alexis de Tocqueville, were generally drawn from various sectors of French literary, political and ecclesiastical high society, but with a special interest in the Church. Hence among her guests were prominent Catholics such as the Archbishop of Paris, Hyacinthe-Louis de Quélen, the abbé Félix Dupanloup, later Bishop of Orleans, and Prosper Guéranger, the founder of the Abbey of Solesmes. A prominent note was what has been spoken of as \"liberal Catholicism\", and she accorded a particularly warm welcome to Charles de Montalembert, Armand de Melun, Augustin Cochin and especially Alfred de Falloux and Henri Lacordaire, who was to refound the Dominican Order in France. With the latter two she maintained a close lifelong friendship. Through her many contacts, she is regarded as having exercised an influence on French Catholicism.\n\nHer \"Life and Works\" (the best known of the latter being \"Old Age\" and \"Resignation\") were published by her friend Falloux (2 vols, 1860), as were her \"Letters\" (2 vols., 1861).\n\nMadame Swetchine is noted for the quotation: \"How easy to be amiable in the midst of happiness and success.\"\nShe was reported to have said that \"Travel is the frivolous part of serious lives and the serious part of frivolous lives.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1924361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924361", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Avon", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Avon\n\nAvon was abolished in 1996 both as a county council and a ceremonial county, but the name Avon continues to be used unofficially in subsequent boundary reviews as presented by the Boundary Commission for England to describe the area covered by the former county for the purpose of the rules which strongly deter cross-council constituencies (spanning more than one local authority within its area). \n\nThe Boundary Commission for England reviewed Avon in 2000 and devised a constituencies scheme in which no constituency spanned the four unitary authority boundaries within the abolished county. This entailed four seats to Bristol, three to South Gloucestershire and two each to Bath and North East Somerset and North Somerset and accordingly a net increase of one seat. Constituency names were aligned with the new local council names. These changes were implemented at the 2010 general election. Bath was restored as a borough constituency (to which a different election expenses quota and returning officer applies compared to county constituencies). Thus Avon has 6 Borough constituencies and 5 County constituencies.\n\nThe immediate predecessor constituency definitions had persisted, with slight amendments in 1997, from before the general election in 1983 to that of 2005. The area had been used as a convenient unit for division into ten Parliamentary constituencies (five Borough constituencies and five County constituencies).\n\nOther former constituencies in the area were:\n\nThe Boundary Commission for England submitted their final proposals in respect of the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster Constituencies (the 2018 review) in September 2018. Although the proposals were immediately laid before Parliament they were not brought forward by the Government for approval. Accordingly, they did not come into effect for the 2019 election which took place on 12 December 2019, and which was contested using the constituency boundaries in place since 2010.\n\nUnder the terms of the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011, the Sixth Review was based on reducing the total number of MPs from 650 to 600 and a strict electoral parity requirement that the electorate of all constituencies should be within a range of 5% either side of the electoral quota.\n\nOn 24 March 2020, the Minister of State for the Cabinet Office, Chloe Smith, issued a written statement to Parliament setting out the Government's thinking with regard to parliamentary boundaries. They propose to bring forward primary legislation to remove the statutory obligation to implement the 2018 Boundary Review recommendations, as well as set the framework for future boundary reviews in time for the next review which is due to begin in early 2021 and report no later than October 2023. It is proposed that the number of constituencies now remains at the current level of 650, rather than being reduced to 600, while retaining the requirement that the electorate should be no more than +/- 5% from the electoral quota.\n\n\"Primary data source:\" House of Commons research briefing - General election results from 1918 to 2019\n\nThe number of votes cast for each political party who fielded candidates in constituencies comprising Avon in the 2019 general election were as follows:\n\n1983 & 1987 - Alliance of Liberal Party and Social Democratic Party\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Included in Other\n\n1983 & 1987 - Alliance of Liberal Party and Social Democratic Party\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924362", "title": "Lujo Tončić-Sorinj", "text": "Lujo Tončić-Sorinj\n\nLujo Tončić-Sorinj () (12 April 1915 – 20 May 2005) was an Austrian diplomat and politician of the conservative Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). He served as Foreign Minister from 1966 to 1968 and as Secretary General of the Council of Europe from 1969 to 1974.\n\nBorn in the Austro-Hungarian capital Vienna, he was a member of a Croatian family ennobled in 1911. His paternal grandfather Josip Tončić-Sorinj (1847–1931) had been governor in the Kingdom of Dalmatia, his father served as consul in Jeddah. Tončić-Sorinj attended the Gymnasium in Salzburg and, having obtained his Matura degree, went on to study law, philosophy and Slavistics at the Vienna University and the University of Zagreb. During World War II, he taught languages in a signal corps of the \"Luftwaffe\".\n\nIn 1945, Tončić-Sorinj became chairman of the political department of the Austrian Institute for the Economy and Politics in Salzburg, and he joined the newly created ÖVP. Later he was member of the Austrian UNESCO commission and of the Austrian delegation to the advisory convention of the Council of Europe. From 1949 to 1966, he was member of the Austrian National Council parliament for the ÖVP, from 1966 to 1968 he was foreign minister in the cabinet of Chancellor Josef Klaus. Relying on the 1946 Gruber–De Gasperi Agreement, Minister Tončić-Sorinj played a vital role in the negotiations with Italy over the autonomy of South Tyrol. A new Austro-Italian agreement was finally achieved under his successor Kurt Waldheim. Also, Tončić-Sorinj initiated the implementation of the United Nations Office at Vienna (UNOV), with the Vienna International Centre built from 1973 onwards as one of four major UN office sites. From 1969 to 1974, he was Secretary General of the Council of Europe.\n\nAfter the Revolutions of 1989 and the Breakup of Yugoslavia, Tončić-Sorinj strongly supported the independence of Croatia. In 1992 he decided to take the Croatian citizenship because of his family connections to Dalmatia, but as a result he lost Austrian citizenship. With help from his political party, he became an Austrian citizen again.\n"}
{"id": "1924377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924377", "title": "Eduard Bass", "text": "Eduard Bass\n\nEduard Bass, born Eduard Schmidt, (1 January 1888, in Prague – 2 October 1946, in Prague) was a Czech prose writer, journalist, singer, and actor.\n\nFrom 1910 he worked as a singer, journalist and cabaret director. From 1921 he was an editor of the newspaper \"Lidové noviny\" and from 1933 its editor-in-chief.\n\nAmong his works, the best known today is the humorous novel for youths \"Klapzubova jedenáctka\" (Klapzuba's Eleven, 1922, about an invincible football team of 11 brothers) and the novel \"Cirkus Humberto\" (Circus Humberto, 1941, an epic saga about people working in circuses).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924390", "title": "National Stadium (Tokyo, 1958)", "text": "National Stadium (Tokyo, 1958)\n\nDemolition was completed in May 2015, and the site will be redeveloped with a new larger-capacity National Olympic Stadium. The new stadium is set to be the main venue for the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics.\n\nThe original plans for the new stadium were scrapped in July 2015 by Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, who announced a rebid after a public outcry because of increased building costs. As a result, the new design was not ready for the 2019 Rugby World Cup, as originally intended. A new design created by architect Kengo Kuma was chosen in December 2015 to replace the original design and was completed in November 2019.\n\nThe stadium was completed in 1958 as the Japanese National Stadium on the site of the former Meiji Shrine Outer Park Stadium. Its first major event was the 1958 Asian Games.\n\nThe venue was unscathed by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. Yasuhiro Nakamori, international relations director for the Japanese Olympic Committee, told Around the Rings he attributed the lack of damage to Japan's stringent building codes.\n\nThe National Stadium has also held a few number of music concerts in the past: The Three Tenors (Luciano Pavarotti, Plácido Domingo, and Jose Carreras) in 1996, SMAP in 2005, Dreams Come True in 2007, Arashi (15 concerts between 2008 and 2013), L'Arc-en-Ciel in 2012, Momoiro Clover Z in 2014, AKB48 in 2014, and finally, the Joint concert \"Sayonara National Stadium Final Week Japan Night\" in May 28 & 29, 2014, which served as final goodbye to the stadium before being demolished, with artists such as Ikimono-gakari, Gospellers, Sukima Switch, Naoto Inti Raymi, Funky Kato, Sekai no Owari, Perfume, Man with a Mission, L'Arc-en-Ciel, among others.\n\n\nAccess to the stadium was from Sendagaya or Shinanomachi stations along the JR Chūō-Sōbu Line; from Kokuritsu Kyogijo Station on the Toei Oedo Line; and from Gaienmae Station on the Tokyo Metro Ginza Line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924398", "title": "Krock", "text": "Krock\n\nKrock or \"variant thereof\" may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924401", "title": "He Is Legend", "text": "He Is Legend\n\nHe Is Legend is an American rock band from Wilmington, North Carolina, United States. The band's lineup is front man Schuylar Croom, guitarist Adam Tanbouz, bassist Matt Williams, and drummer Jesse Shelley.\n\nThe band's roots reach back into the late 1990s when Adam Tanbouz, Steven Bache, Matt Williams, and vocalist Schuylar Croom began writing and performing around Wilmington, NC while still in high school. In 2003, having previously played under the names of Stronghold, No One Wins, and The Uriah Omen, the name He Is Legend was adopted by members Tanbouz, Bache, Bell, Croom, and Williams. The name He Is Legend is an adaptation of the 1954 book I am Legend by Richard Matheson. After releasing their first EP in June 2004 entitled \"91025\", the band signed on with Solid State Records and released their first full-length album in November, \"I Am Hollywood\", which was followed by almost two years of extensive touring in the United States and Europe, the band temporarily relocated to California to record their next release. However, the release almost never saw the light of day as the group would almost break up right after they had finished recording. \"Suck Out the Poison\" was released on October 3, 2006.\n\nSoon after the release of Suck Out the Poison, guitarist McKenzie Bell left the band. He was replaced by guitarist Mitch Marlow (previously of Classic Case). During their tour with Chimaira, DragonForce, and Killswitch Engage in spring of 2007, the first few weeks were played as a 4-piece without Marlow. During the Peanut Butt Tour '07, a different second guitarist, Worth Weaver, was seen playing in Marlow's spot. At their show at the School of Rock in New Jersey, Bache stated that Marlow had accidentally booked himself to produce a record for another band back in North Carolina. The dates of recording coincided with much of the tour, so he was not able to tour with the band. Worth stepped in and was, by the account of Bache, excellent in his performance. At their final show before beginning their tour in Australia, Marlow performed with the band, confirming that at the time he was still a member of He Is Legend.\n\nThe band's performances throughout the 2009 SXSW festival featured them as a four-piece once again. After a Plano, Texas performance on March 17, Tanbouz stated that Weaver, not performing with the band that evening, is planning on getting married soon and he would be focusing more on his solo musical career with his personal studio and music. Worth Weaver had begun standing in on the 2007 \"Peanut Butt Tour\" with the band.\n\nAccording to a recent blog, He Is Legend announced that they will be taking a musical sabbatical in the forest surrounding North Carolina recording studio, Warrior Sound Studio. The blog continues, saying that the material written during this hiatus will be used to create a record \"literally made of solid gold (figuratively speaking).\"\n\nOn April 24, 2008, He Is Legend posted four demo songs from their sabbatical, entitled \"Decisions Decisions Decisions\", \"Stranger Danger\", \"Don't Touch That Dial\", and \"Everyone I Know Has Fangs\" from the upcoming record.\n\nOn April 16, 2009, the band confirmed that their newest album, \"It Hates You\" was being released through Tragic Hero records on July 21, 2009. (Originally set to be released on June 23). On May 27, 2009, the band posted \"The Primarily Blues\" and in early July \"China White III\", and \"Future's Bright, Man\" on their Myspace.\n\n\"It Hates You\" was released on July 21, 2009 and produced by Mitchell Marlow and Allen Jacob at Warrior Sound in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, with additional production by Kit Walters.\n\nIn September 2009, it was announced that He Is Legend is taking an \"indefinite hiatus,\" although the band itself made no public announcement of their hiatus.\n\nFrom September 2009 until February 2010, frontman Schuylar Croom filled in on vocals for Dallas Taylor with Maylene and the Sons of Disaster.\n\nOn December 29, 2010, the band did a reunion show in Wilmington, NC.\n\nOn October 16, 2011, it was announced that He Is Legend will be playing their first show since taking an indefinite hiatus in 2009. The show took place on October 31, 2011, at the Satellite Bar and Lounge in Wilmington, North Carolina. On December 22, 2011, frontman Schuylar Croom announced that there would be a new He Is Legend album released in 2012.\n\nIn January 2012 the band played two more shows in the North Carolina area, and in March, the band embarked on a 3-date tour of the east coast, playing in Baltimore, Maryland, Jermyn, Pennsylvania, and New York City. The band toured once more throughout November–December 2012, but no other news regarding the promised new album were announced.\n\nOn June 1, 2013, He Is Legend stated on their Facebook page, that Steve Bache had left the band, on good terms, after moving to a new city to pursue a higher education which would allow him a career in life. They compared finding a new drummer to \"trying to find a kick ass drumming needle in a hay stack.\" Luckily, they came upon an acquaintance, Sam Huff, whom had previously played in a band with friends of theirs. He Is Legend stated that \"within 15 minutes of rehearsing one of our newer ideas with Sam we realized that he was the perfect person for the position.\"\n\nOn July 14, 2013, the band announced 6 new tour dates, and stated it will be the band's last tour before entering the studio to record their fourth album.\n\nOn August 27, 2013, it was announced that He Is Legend had officially begun working on their fourth studio album, with producer Mitch Marlow (Filter, A Skylit Drive), who was also the band's former rhythm guitarist. In September, the band announced a full US tour for October–November 2013, while taking a break from recording the album.\n\nOn January 29, 2014, the band announced new material via Twitter with the following statement, \"Dudes and dude babes, we will be premiering our first song from our new album on Friday. Spread the word.\" The band's new single, \"Something Witchy\", premiered on February 2, 2014, on YouTube.\n\nOn February 19, 2014, the band announced on their official Facebook page that they had finished recording their new album. Though no release date was announced, it will be released through Tragic Hero Records.\n\nOn June 10, 2014, the band announced on their official Facebook page that they will be touring North America with Maylene and the Sons of Disaster and Wilson. The band also announced August 23, 2014 as the release party for their new album at Ziggy's By The Sea in Wilmington, NC.\n\nOn June 17, 2014, He Is Legend announced on their official Facebook page that their new album, entitled \"Heavy Fruit\", will be released August 19, 2014. They also premiered a new single, \"Miserable Company.\"\n\nOn November 2, 2015, He Is Legend announced on their official Facebook page that they are launching a crowdfunding campaign to fund their upcoming record. The crowdfunding proved successful, closing on December 2, 2015, having raised 124% of the stated goal, recording of the album would begin soon thereafter.\n\nOn March 28, 2017, He Is Legend premiered the music video for \"Air Raid\" on Loudwire\n\nOn October 31, 2018, He Is Legend released the single \"White Bat\". Schuylar Croom wrote, \"We are so stoked to finally be able to let you know we have a new record coming next year. Stay tuned for Preorder info... But for now enjoy the first single and title track White Bat\".\n\nOn April 25, 2019, the band revealed the track listing for \"White Bat\", along with the second single \"Boogiewoman\".\n\n\"White Bat\" was released on June 28, 2019.\n\nCurrent members\nFormer members\nLive musicians\nTimeline\nStudio albums\n\nEPs\n\nCompilations\n\nMusic videos\n"}
{"id": "1924406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924406", "title": "Richard Bache", "text": "Richard Bache\n\nRichard Bache (September 12, 1737 – April 17, 1811), born in Settle, Yorkshire, England, immigrated to Philadelphia, in the colony of Pennsylvania, where he was a businessman, a marine insurance underwriter, and later served as head of the American Post Office. He also was the son-in-law of Benjamin Franklin.\n\nBache immigrated as a young man in 1760 to New York to join his brother Theophylact in a dry goods and marine insurance business. After a couple of years, he went to Philadelphia, where he prospered for several years. He was among nearly 30 young men who in October 1766 met at the city's London Coffee House to found the Gloucester Fox Hunting Club (GFHC), the first in America, to take up a pursuit closely associated with becoming \"true Englishmen.\" \nIn 1767, Bache suffered financial problems when debts contracted by him were repudiated by his London associate, Edward Green.\n\nThat year, Bache had proposed to Sarah Franklin (1743–1808), known as Sally, the only daughter of Benjamin Franklin and Deborah Read. They objected, given his precarious finances and rumors that Bache was a fortune hunter. Although Franklin and his wife Deborah Read never formally approved, they acquiesced to the marriage in 1767. Bache and Sally had eight children together, including Benjamin Franklin, Louis Franklin and Richard Franklin.\n\nDuring the American Revolution, Bache served on the Board of War. His wife, Sally Bache (1743–1808), was widely known for her patriotism and charitable activities.\n\nFranklin later arranged an appointment for Bache as the US Postmaster General (1776–1782), to succeed him. After Franklin's death in 1790, Bache and Sally lived off her inheritance from Franklin, moving their family to the Vandegrift residence in 1794 along the Delaware River north of Philadelphia.\n\nTheir oldest son, Benjamin Franklin Bache (1769–1798), became a journalist and publisher, founding a newspaper. He was a spokesman for the Jeffersonian Republicans; he strenuously opposed George Washington, John Adams and the Federalist party.\n\nSally and Bache's son, Richard Bache, Jr., served in the Republic of Texas Navy and was elected as a Representative to the Second Texas Legislature in 1847.\n\nThe U.S. Navy surgeon Benjamin Franklin Bache (1801–1881) and the physicist Alexander Dallas Bache (1806–1867) were grandsons of Sally and Richard Bache, Sr.\n"}
{"id": "1924414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924414", "title": "Demonic (album)", "text": "Demonic (album)\n\nDemonic is the seventh studio album by American thrash metal band Testament. Released in 1997 with original members Chuck Billy (Vocals) and Eric Peterson (Guitar), the record also features artists Derrick Ramirez (Bass), Gene Hoglan (Drums) and Glen Alvelais (Guitar). Ramirez was previously the band's first guitarist (although here he is performing on bass guitar), and Alvelais had previously performed with Testament on the 1993 live album, \"Return to the Apocalyptic City\".\n\nThe album cover art for \"Demonic\" was done by Dave McKean who also did the cover art for the prior Testament studio album, \"Low\" and would go on to do their next, \"The Gathering\". In a 1999 interview while supporting the release of \"The Gathering\", Peterson described how the image depicts a type of African exorcism where a wooden mask is made to represent the possessed victim. Nails are then driven into it cleansing the afflicted person of the evil spirit.\n\nMcKean gets double duty from the cover's pentagram graphic using the style depiction from the Legacy (band) logo, the band name Testament released a 1985 demo under, as both a nod to longtime fans and as the spirit being driven forth. The center skull art without the pentagram enclosure can be seen on the album cover of Testament's first studio album, \"The Legacy\".\n\n\"Demonic\" features eleven tracks, marking a deviation from previous albums to a much darker death metal sound mirroring the album's exorcism theme. Songs like \"John Doe\" and \"Hatreds Rise\" stand out in reviews as examples noting the overall heavier change.\n\nThe album was reissued on January 8, 2018 under license from \"Burnt Offerings\" via label Prosthetic, featuring new cover artwork.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924418", "title": "Night of the Ducks", "text": "Night of the Ducks\n\nThe Night of the Ducks () was the civilian fiasco by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) that occurred on April 1, 1959. \n\nTraditionally, Israel conducted regular call-up exercises for its reserve troops by public radio. Units were given code words, which, if broadcast over the radio, meant that the troops were to assemble at predetermined meeting points. Though intended for emergency use, exercises were conducted to ensure that the troops arrived at their appointed places within a reasonable amount of time. Because of the tense situation along the country's borders, drills were announced publicly well in advance, and people expecting to be called up waited at home for the announcements to be made. \n\nBy the late 1950s, however, tensions had been increasing along Israel's frontiers, not least because of the perceived threat posed by the political unification of the country's two major adversaries, Egypt and Syria, as the United Arab Republic on January 31, 1958. As a result, it was decided by the IDF's General Staff to test the readiness of its reserve troops under actual emergency conditions. A call-up exercise would be conducted, but unlike previous exercises, there would be no prior announcement and no warning given. \n\nOn April 1, a popular radio program on Kol Israel was interrupted by a message requesting listeners to stay close to their radios and wait for an important announcement. At 9:00 PM, Kol Israel's main radio program opened with an announcement of a general call-up of the reserves, and all reservists whose units were announced were requested to report to their bases the following day. The message was concluded with three military code words, which signaled units to report at their predetermined meeting points. The message was delivered in nine languages.\n\nIntended to simulate genuine emergency conditions, the call-up announcement threw the country into a panic. People believed that the call-up was in response to a genuine emergency, and that the country was under attack. In the following hours, Israelis spread rumors and guesses, and checked their personal ammunition supply. In the Knesset, members received the news during a vote on the state budget, and quickly abandoned the proceedings and ran to their cars to listen to the radio.\n\nLess than a quarter of an hour after the broadcast, radio programs from all over the world began announcing that Israel was mobilizing its army. Urgent messages were sent to foreign reporters in Israel, most of whom were attending a festival at Tel Aviv's Cultural Center celebrating a state visit to Israel by Queen Elisabeth of Belgium. IDF Chief of Staff Haim Laskov and Chief of Reserves Meir Zorea were also attending. Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion had been entertaining Queen Elisabeth when the crisis began.\nSimilarly, the neighboring Arab states, which monitored Israeli radio, believed that Israel was preparing to launch a surprise attack on them, and began to ready their own troops. Syria began moving troops to the Israeli border to prepare for an IDF attack. It took considerable efforts by the government to calm the civilian population, and international efforts to mollify the neighboring states and convince them that Israel was not preparing for war. \n\nAt 11:00 PM, Kol Israel finally announced that the call-up had been just an exercise, but people in Israel and abroad began forming conspiracy theories. For example, Soviet media claimed that the mobilization was possibly \"to divert the workers' attention and to allow the government to insert into the defense clause of the budget 420 million Lirot, more than the previous year\".\n\nIn the following days, the local press responded bitterly to the event, referring to it as the \"Night of the Ducks\", since one of the call-up codes repeated on the radio was \"Waterfowl\", which in Hebrew translates as \"water ducks\". An official Commission of Inquiry was organized to investigate the decisions leading up to the event. Although the Chief of Staff, Haim Laskov, was absolved, two leading generals, Major General Meir Zorea, who served as Chief of Reserves, and Major General Yehoshafat Harkabi, who served as Chief of Military Intelligence, were forced to step down.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924432", "title": "Second-order conditioning", "text": "Second-order conditioning\n\nIn classical conditioning, second-order conditioning or higher-order conditioning is a form of learning in which a stimulus is first made meaningful or consequential for an organism through an initial step of learning, and then that stimulus is used as a basis for learning about some new stimulus. For example, an animal might first learn to associate a bell with food (first-order conditioning), but then learn to associate a light with the bell (second-order conditioning). Honeybees show second-order conditioning during proboscis extension reflex conditioning.\n\nIn the SOC procedure, there are three phases. In the first training phase, a conditioned stimulus, (CS1) is followed by an unconditioned stimulus (US). In the second phase, a second-order conditioned stimulus (CS2) is presented along with CS1. Finally, in the test phase, CS2 is presented alone to the subjects while their responses are recorded. \n\nTheoretical models for how second-order conditioning (SOC) works have a basis in associative learning theories. There are four broad models based on the associations formed during SOC. The first model suggests that the second-order stimulus (CS2) and the conditioned response (CR) form a direct link which is strengthened by the presence of the first-order stimulus (CS1). The second model suggests that in successful SOC an associative representation of each stimulus is created. The presentation of the CS2 would evoke a representation of the CS1, which would evoke a representation of the unconditioned stimulus (US), thus leading to the CR. The third model suggests a direct link between the CS2 and a representation of the US which leads to the CR. The fourth model suggests that the CS2 elicits a CR through a CS1 representation because a connection exists between the CS2 and the CS1 representation.\nSecond- Order conditioning helps explain why some people desire money to the point that they hoard it and value it even more than the objects it purchases. Money is initially used to purchase objects that produce gratifying outcomes, such as an expensive car. Although money is not directly associated with the thrill of a drive in a new sports car, though second- order conditioning, money can become linked with this type of desirable quality.\n\nIt has been demonstrated in an associative fear conditioning chain, such as CS --> CS --> US, that extinction of freezing responses to the first-order stimulus (CS) leads to responding impairments in CS, but extinction of the second-order stimulus (CS), does not have any effect on CS (Debiec et al.). In the same study, the effect of activation (memory retrieval) on such an associative chain has been examined. Results demonstrated that protein synthesis inhibition after exposure to a single CS impairs responses to both CS and CS, but protein synthesis inhibition after exposure to a single CS, only disrupts CS and leaves CS freezing intact. Therefore, it is believed that when the first-order association is directly activated, it is placed into a labile state (as we would expect from reconsolidation research) which may affect dependent associations. However, when the first-order association is only indirectly activated (through the associative chain), it appears that there is not sufficient stimulation to kick off cellular processes which would place it in a labile state, so it remains fixed.\n"}
{"id": "1924439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924439", "title": "Cuffley", "text": "Cuffley\n\nCuffley is a village in the Welwyn Hatfield district of south-east Hertfordshire located between Cheshunt and Potters Bar. It has a population of just over 4,000 people. Northaw and Cuffley is a civil parish and is part of Broxbourne parliamentary constituency.\n\nThe railway had an important impact on the development of the village. Cuffley was reached by the Great Northern Railway in 1910, as part of the plan to create the Hertford Loop Line, as a strategic alternative to the main line out of King's Cross to the north, by extending the line from Enfield Chase.\n\nThe early history of Cuffley is recounted by one of its residents, Molly Hughes, in her autobiographical book \"A London Family Between the Wars.\"\n\nOn 3 September 1916 the German airship SL 11 was shot down and crashed in Cuffley during an aerial bombardment intended for London. This incident is commemorated by a memorial on East Ridgeway to Lieutenant W. Leefe Robinson, the pilot who shot the airship down; he was awarded the Victoria Cross.\nThere is also a model of the airship in the village hall. Contrary to many reports of the incident, the SL 11 airship was not a Zeppelin but an army Schütte-Lanz airship. Regardless, the local football team is still nicknamed 'The Zeps' after this event.\n\nIn 1939, the Scout Association purchased part of the Tolmers Park Estate that lies within the Parish of Cuffley. Tolmers Scout Camp was opened on Whit Saturday 1940 by Lord Wigram. Today, Tolmers hosts thousands of young people annually from all over the UK and across Europe; not only Scouts and Guides but schools and youth groups as well.\n\nCuffley is near to the M25 motorway and is part of the London commuter belt. Cuffley railway station provides a commuter service to Moorgate, services operated by Great Northern.\n\nCuffley Primary School has occupied its present building since 1938 when it replaced the original Victorian school room.\n\nPreschool education for children aged 2 to 5 years old is available at the youth centre (Cuffley Community Centre Pre-School).\n\nSt Andrew's Anglican Church, built in 1965 on the site of the old school, replaced the 'tin church' built in 1911 next to the old village green. The village also has a Baptist church, which in May 2011 changed its name to the Life Church and is associated with the Life Church at Potters Bar. There is also St Martin de Porres Roman Catholic Church.\n\nIts most notable current resident is Sir Terry Leahy, former CEO of Tesco, although this did not prevent locals from objecting vehemently to plans to build a \"Express\" store in the village replacing one of only two remaining village pubs. Other famous residents include Premier League footballers Ledley King, Jermain Defoe, Niko Kranjcar, David Bentley, Kyle Walker and Armand Traoré; and also former Sugababes singer Keisha Buchanan and Myleene Klass.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924445", "title": "USS McCawley (DD-276)", "text": "USS McCawley (DD-276)\n\nUSS \"McCawley\" (DD-276) was a built for the United States Navy during World WarI. She was armed with 4× 4inch and 2× 1pounder guns. She was commissioned on 22September 1919, served with the Pacific Fleet for 3 years and was laid up on 7June 1922. \"McCawley\" was recommissioned on 27September 1923, again serving in the Pacific, and decommissioned in 1930 before being sold for scrap.\n\nThe \"Clemson\" class was a repeat of the preceding although more fuel capacity was added. The ships displaced at standard load and at deep load. They had an overall length of , a beam of and a draught of . They had a crew of 6 officers and 108 enlisted men.\n\nPerformance differed radically between the ships of the class, often due to poor workmanship. The \"Clemson\" class was powered by two steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by four water-tube boilers. The turbines were designed to produce a total of intended to reach a speed of . The ships carried a maximum of of fuel oil which was intended gave them a range of at .\n\nThe ships were armed with four 4-inch (102 mm) guns in single mounts and were fitted with two 1-pounder guns for anti-aircraft defense. In many ships a shortage of 1-pounders caused them to be replaced by 3-inch (76 mm) guns. Their primary weapon, though, was their torpedo battery of a dozen 21 inch (533 mm) torpedo tubes in four triple mounts. They also carried a pair of depth charge rails. A \"Y-gun\" depth charge thrower was added to many ships.\n\n\"McCawley\", named for Colonel Charles McCawley, was laid down 5 November 1918 by the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation's Fore River Shipyard in Quincy, Massachusetts; launched 14 June 1919; sponsored by Miss Eleanor Laurie McCawley, granddaughter of Colonel McCawley; and commissioned 22 September 1919, Lieutenant (junior grade) H. E. Haynes, in command.\n\nFollowing an east coast fitting out and shakedown period, \"McCawley\" sailed for San Diego, California where she joined Destroyer Squadron 2, later DesRon 4, Pacific Fleet. She participated in local exercises off the west coast until she decommissioned at San Diego 7June 1922.\n\nOn 27September 1923 \"McCawley\" was recommissioned and again assigned to the Pacific Fleet. For the next 6 years she operated there, taking part in various local, squadron and fleet training exercises. During 1924 and 1927 she steamed to the Caribbean for fleet problems, but otherwise spent the entire period in operations along the west coast, from San Diego to Puget Sound, and in Hawaiian waters.\n\n\"McCawley\" was designated for deactivation under the terms of the London Treaty for the Limitation of Naval Armament and decommissioned at San Diego on 1 April 1930. Her name was struck from the Navy list on 13 August 1930 and her hulk was scrapped and sold at auction 2 September 1931.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924449", "title": "Amable Guillaume Prosper Brugière, baron de Barante", "text": "Amable Guillaume Prosper Brugière, baron de Barante\n\nAmable Guillaume Prosper Brugière, baron de Barante (June 10, 1782November 22, 1866) was a French statesman and historian. Associated with the center-left, he was described in France as the first man to call himself, \"without any embarrassment or restriction, a Liberal.\"\n\nBarante was born at Riom, Puy-de-Dôme, the son of an advocate. At the age of sixteen he entered the École Polytechnique at Paris, and at twenty obtained his first appointment in the civil service. His abilities secured him rapid promotion, and in 1806 he obtained the post of auditor to the council of state. After being employed in several political missions in Germany, Poland, and Spain, during the next two years, he became prefect of Vendée.\n\nAt the time of the return of Napoleon I he held the prefecture of Nantes, and this post he immediately resigned. On the second restoration of the Bourbons he was made councillor of state and secretary-general of the ministry of the interior. After filling for several years the post of director-general of indirect taxes, he was created in 1819 as a peer of France and was prominent among the Liberals.\n\nAfter the revolution of July 1830, Barante was appointed ambassador to Turin, and five years later to St Petersburg. Throughout the reign of Louis Philippe he remained a supporter of the government; and after the fall of the monarchy, in February 1848, he withdrew from political affairs and retired to his country seat in Auvergne. Shortly before his retirement he had been made grand cross of the Legion of Honour.\n\nHe died at the Castle of Barante, near Thiers, in 1866.\n\nBarante's \"Histoire des ducs de Bourgogne de la maison de Valois\", which appeared in a series of volumes between 1824 and 1828, procured him immediate admission to the Académie Française. Its narrative qualities, and purity of style, won high praise from the romantic school, but it exhibits a lack of the critical sense and of scientific scholarship. Amongst his other literary works are:\nThe version of \"Hamlet\" for Guizot's \"Shakespeare\" was his work.\n\nHis \"Souvenirs\" were published by his grandson (Paris, 1890–99).\n"}
{"id": "1924453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924453", "title": "Goffs Oak", "text": "Goffs Oak\n\nGoffs Oak is a large village in the borough of Broxbourne in Hertfordshire in the United Kingdom. It is situated between Cuffley and Cheshunt, just north of the M25 motorway in a slightly more rural section of the London commuter belt.\n\nThe village is named after the Goff family, who owned much of the land in the area, and symbolised by the original Old Oak, said to be several hundred years old before it fell in the 1950s. Its replacement fell itself after severe damage during the storm of 1987.\n\nThe village centre is marked by a War Memorial which was unveiled on 20 December 1920. It is inscribed with the names of 32 men from the village who were killed in the First World War. A further three names were added following the Second World War. The houses north-east of the memorial were originally the police station. Next to the police station was a civil defence siren which was regularly tested through the 1960s, as part of the national defence at the height of the Cold War. The siren could be heard across the whole village area.\n\nGoffs Oak has been used as a film location. In the 1970s, \"Timeslip\", a popular children's science fiction series, was filmed at Burnt Farm Army Camp in Silver Street.\nGerry Anderson's \"The Protectors\", filmed in the 1970s and starring Robert Vaughn also used the former army camp as a location.\n\nThe Spurs squad, during the mid 1950's, used to run down Burton Lane as part of their \"circuit\" training, back to their training ground on Brookfield Lane.\n\nGoffs Oak has a number of schools including Goffs Oak and Woodside.\n\nThere are a number of Pre-Schools including Goffs Oak Pre-School located in Goffs Oak Village Hall.\n\nThe original Goffs Oak Methodist Church was built in 1868, but was replaced by a modern building in the 1970s. It is situated in Newgatestreet Road, close to the War Memorial. http://www.goffsoakmethodistchurch.org.uk.\n\nVictoria Beckham was raised in the village. Fenerbache striker Robin Van Persie lived in the area.\nThe tennis player Richard Lewis lived in Jones Road, Goffs Oak, and attended Goffs School during the late 1960s and early 1970s. He went on to represent Great Britain in the Davis Cup, and is now Chair of SportEngland. In April 2012, Richard Lewis was appointed Chief Executive Officer at the All England Tennis Club, Wimbledon.\nThe former Glamorgan wicketkeeper Colin Metson, now Community and Cricket Development Manager of Glamorgan County Cricket Club, was born in the village in 1963.\n\nBuster Miekle a member of the Unit 4 + 2 (A local group who sang the No.1 hit song Concrete & Clay) use to live in Goffs Oak. He now lives in Yarmouth.\n\nhttps://www.greatyarmouthmercury.co.uk/news/buster-looks-back-at-days-of-smash-hit-1-496431\n\nBuster also paired up with Bill Moeller whose brother also was in the group Unit 4 + 2 as: \"Bill & Buster\" and recorded an amazing ballard in 1971 called \"hold on to what you´ve got\" They also made a video of the song that was shot in Belgium.\n\nThe nearest railway stations to Goffs Oak are Cuffley (services to London's Kings Cross station) and Cheshunt (services to London Liverpool Street).\n\n"}
{"id": "1924455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924455", "title": "GoBack", "text": "GoBack\n\nNorton GoBack (previously WildFile GoBack, Adaptec GoBack, and Roxio GoBack) is a disk utility for Microsoft Windows that can record up to 8 GB of disk changes. When the filesystem is idle for a few seconds, it marks these as \"safe points\". The product allows the disk drive to be restored to any point within the available history. It also allows older versions of files to be restored, and previous versions of the whole disk to be browsed. Depending on disk activity, the typical history might cover a few hours to a few days.\n\nGoBack replaces the master boot record, and also replaces the partition table with a single partition. This allows a hard drive to be changed back, even in the event that the operating system is unable to boot, while also protecting the filesystem from alteration so that the revert information remains correct.\n\nGoBack is compatible with hardware RAID drives.\n\nDue to the changes made to the partition table, this can cause problems when dual booting other operating systems on the same hard disk. It is possible to retain dual-boot compatibility, but can involve saving the partition table before enabling GoBack, and after enabling GoBack, re-writing the partition table back to the disk (after booting from a different device, such as a Live CD).\n\nIt may also be necessary to disable GoBack prior to using certain low level disk utilities, such as formatting software. Such low level utilities which do not first check for the presence of GoBack can (in combination with GoBack) cause data to become corrupted. Another example of an incompatible program is the Windows version of True Image For Windows. GoBack is also incompatible with products such as Drive Vaccine PC Restore and RollBack Rx - as these products require access to the master boot record.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924456", "title": "Anika Moa", "text": "Anika Moa\n\nAnika Rose Moa (born 21 May 1980) is a New Zealand recording artist and television presenter. After signing to Atlantic Records in the United States she released her debut album \"Thinking Room\" in 2001, aged 21. The album reached the top of the New Zealand Singles Chart and yielded four hit singles. Moa's music won the attention of record company executives after they heard a song she had sung at the Smokefree Rockquest while still a teenager.\n\nMoa has been the subject of two documentaries by filmmaker Justin Pemberton: \"3 Chords and the Truth: the Anika Moa Story\" (2003), recounting the story of her signing to Atlantic and the release of her first album, and \"In Bed With Anika Moa\" (2010).\n\nMoa was born in Auckland but grew up in Christchurch where she attended Hornby High School. Her father Tia was Māori (Ngāpuhi, Te Aupōuri) and her mother Bernadette is of English descent.\n\nMoa signed a record deal with Warner Music in New Zealand and Atlantic Records in New York, where she recorded her first album \"Thinking Room\" on which is the track \"In The Morning\" which talks about her abortion in 2000. Moa grew homesick during her time in the United States, and became increasingly uncomfortable with the imagery used to promote her. In 2002 she returned to base herself in New Zealand.\n\nShe released her second album \"Stolen Hill\" on 1 August 2005, describing the album as \"more sparse\" and true to herself, compared to her first. The album was certified gold. She toured New Zealand in October of that year.\n\nIn 2005 Moa was one of many New Zealand musicians who contributed to single \"Anchor Me\", which commemorated the twentieth anniversary of the bombing of the \"Rainbow Warrior\".\n\nIn October 2007 Moa released her third studio album, \"In Swings The Tide\", which went platinum and won a number of rave reviews. For the first time she was credited with producing the album alone. In 2009 \"The New Zealand Herald\" named Moa as one of the \"Top 10 Kiwi music successes of the past 10 years\".\n\nMoa came out as openly lesbian in 2007, and entered into a civil union with Australian burlesque dancer Azaria Universe (Angela Fyfe) in February 2010. Fyfe became pregnant with twins in 2011. Fyfe was a major inspiration for Moa's fourth album, \"Love in Motion\", which peaked at number four on the New Zealand Albums Chart after its release in March 2010. To support the album, Moa embarked on a nationwide tour from 21 October 2010 to 4 December.\n\nMoa has collaborated with many New Zealand artists including SJD and Bic Runga. She has also performed with band Dimmer, in a backup and touring capacity. She has DJed under the name DJ Unika.\n\nIn February 2013 Moa released \"Peace of Mind\" with Boh Runga and Hollie Smith. Around that time she and Azaria Universe separated, and have joint custody of their twins. In November 2013 she released a children's album titled \"Songs for Bubbas\".\n\nIn September 2016 Moa debuted her interview talk show \"All Talk with Anika Moa\", which was broadcast for the Maori Television, developed with support from NZ on Air. The show is filmed in front of a small studio audience, and has featured appearances from a number of New Zealand celebrities including actor Temuera Morrison and musician Stan Walker. There were two series developed, each consisting of 10 episodes, as well as a special episode highlighting moments from the series. The final episode of series two aired in July 2017.\n\nIn March 2018, Moa debuted a new interview show, \"Anika Moa Unleashed\", available online through TVNZ OnDemand. In 2019 the show started showing on TVNZ 1 on Saturday nights. The show features Moa visiting the homes of notable New Zealand celebrities, public figures, and personalities. She has reportedly signed to develop twelve episodes.\n\nIn April 2018, Moa had a stint as a television presenter for the current affairs programme Seven Sharp, filling in for Jeremy Wells. She co-hosted alongside Hilary Barry for several episodes. Her final broadcast was on 20 April.\n\nIn December 2012, Moa starred in an online video campaign supporting gay marriage, alongside New Zealand singers Hollie Smith and Boh Runga, as well as Olympian Danyon Loader and former Governor-General Dame Catherine Tizard. She was openly critical of New Zealand's National-led government until it left office in 2017.\n\n|2005\n\n|rowspan=\"5\"|2002\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924460", "title": "La rondine", "text": "La rondine\n\nLa rondine (\"The Swallow\") is an opera in three acts by Giacomo Puccini to an Italian libretto by Giuseppe Adami, based on a libretto by Alfred Maria Willner and . It was first performed at the Grand Théâtre de Monte Carlo (or the Théâtre du Casino) in Monte Carlo on 27 March 1917.\n\nIn autumn 1913, the directors of Vienna's Carltheater commissioned Puccini to compose a Viennese operetta. After confirming that it could take the form of a comic opera with no spoken dialogue in the style of \"Der Rosenkavalier\", \"only more entertaining and more organic,\" he agreed. The work proceeded for two years, sometimes intensely, sometimes with great difficulty, and in spring 1916 the opera was finished. The originally intended Viennese première was impeded by the outbreak of World War I and the entrance of Italy in the Alliance against Austria-Hungary, hence the Opéra de Monte-Carlo was chosen as the location to present it, with Gilda dalla Rizza and Tito Schipa in the leading roles. A feature of the music is Puccini's use of modern dance rhythms, such as the tango, to denote the various characters.\n\nIn Italy, Puccini offered the work to his editor Tito Ricordi, who declined to buy it, dismissing it as \"Bad Lehár\"; thus Ricordi's rival, Lorenzo , obtained the right to give the first performance outside Austria-Hungary and moved the premiere to Monégasque neutral territory. At the premiere in Monte Carlo in 1917 the initial reception by the public and press was warm. However, despite the artistic value of the score, \"La rondine\" has been one of Puccini's less successful works; \"In box office terms, [it] was the poor cousin to the other great hits.\" There is no established final version of it, Puccini being dissatisfied, as often, with the result of his work; he revised it many times to the point of making three versions (1917, 1920, 1921), with two completely different endings, but died before clearly deciding on a final version.\n\nRevised versions\n\nIn the second version, which was premiered at Teatro Massimo, Palermo, in 1920, Prunier is the deciding force in Magda's decision to leave Ruggero in Act 3, and she departs without seeing her lover. In the third version of the opera, Puccini changed the final act again, adding a scene in which Rambaldo comes to beg Magda to return to him, and ending with Ruggero's discovery (via an anonymous telegram) of who Magda really is, his angry rebuke of her, and his decision to leave her for ever. At the end of this version, Magda is left alone with Lisette. The third version was not heard until 1994 in Turin. Moreover, a fire at Casa Sonzogno archives caused by Allied bombing during the war destroyed parts of the score which had to be restored based on the surviving vocal-piano arrangements. The orchestration of the third version was finally completed in authentic Puccinian style by Italian composer Lorenzo Ferrero at the request of Teatro Regio di Torino and subsequently performed there on 22 March 1994.\n\nAs part of a 1958 celebration marking the centenary of Puccini's birth, the Teatro di San Carlo at Naples, Italy, staged a revival of \"La rondine\", at that time one of Puccini's least-performed operas. The revival was well-received, with audiences and critics deeming it a success.\n\nModern day performances\n\nIn Europe since the 1990s stagings have included the première of the third version at Teatro Regio di Torino (1994), as well as performances at La Scala (1994), Leeds Opera North (1994, 2001), Oper Bonn and Ludwigshaven State Opera House (1995), Teatro del Giglio in Lucca (1998), Teatro Filarmonico di Verona (2002), Kansallisooppera, Helsinki (2002, 2003, 2007), Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, London (2002, 2005, 2013), Théâtre du Châtelet, Paris (2005), Opéra de Monte-Carlo (2007), La Fenice in Venice (2008), 2012 Teatro Nacional de Sao Carlos (2012), and Portuguese Symphony Orchestra. \n\nIn the US, major productions were seen at the Washington National Opera (1998), Los Angeles Opera (2000, 2008), Atlanta Opera (2002), Boston Lyric Opera (2003), New York City Opera (2005), Dallas Opera (2007), San Francisco Opera (2007), Sarasota Opera (2008), the Metropolitan Opera (2008, 2014), and Opera San José (2017).\n\nMarta Domingo's production of \"La rondine\" in Bonn in 1995 used the third version, but added to the tragedy by having Magda commit suicide by drowning in the final bars of the opera. This version of the opera has since been staged by the Washington National Opera and the Los Angeles Opera.\n\nFollowing the premiere of a joint new production by director Nicolas Joël at the Royal Opera House in 2002 (starring soprano Angela Gheorghiu as Magda) and at the Théâtre du Capitole de Toulouse, \"La rondine\" was seen at the Théâtre du Châtelet, revived at the Royal Opera House in 2005 and 2013, and presented by the San Francisco Opera in 2007, all with Gheorghiu. On 31 December 2008, again with Gheorghiu as Magda, the Metropolitan Opera in New York gave the company's first staging in 70 years. The matinée performance on 10 January 2009 was broadcast in HD to movie theaters and schools throughout the world. This opera also was performed by Des Moines Metro Opera (Indianola, IA) in July 2012, starring Joyce El-Khoury.\n\n\"Magda's salon, Paris\"\n\nAt a cocktail party hosted by the courtesan Magda, the poet Prunier expounds his theories on love. Magda's friends Yvette, Bianca and Suzy playfully mock him, while Lisette, Magda's maid, tells him he does not know what he is talking about. Prunier takes offence and Magda orders Lisette to leave. Prunier maintains that no one is immune to romantic love and sings the first verse of his latest song about Doretta, who rejected a king as her suitor because of the value she placed on true love. He does not know how to finish the song, so Magda takes over and provides the second verse: she recounts how Doretta falls in love with a student (Aria: \"Chi il bel sogno di Doretta\"). Magda's guests are charmed by her performance and her long-term protector Rambaldo gives her a pearl necklace. Lisette enters to announce the arrival of a young man – the son of an old school friend of Rambaldo. Lisette is ordered by Rambaldo to bring in the guest. Suddenly nostalgic, Magda recalls her life as a young working girl and happy evenings spent dancing at Bullier's, where she first experienced love (Aria: \"Ore dolci e divine\"). Some of the guests suggest that Prunier should compose a song based on Magda's story but he declares a preference for songs about perverse heroines, such as Berenice or Salome. Prunier demonstrates his skills at palmistry to some of the girls, while Lisette brings in the visitor, Ruggero. He has an introduction from his father for Rambaldo. Prunier reads Magda's palm and tells her that she is like a swallow: she longs for migration towards the sun and true love. Ruggero explains that it is his first visit to Paris and asks where he may find the best place to spend an evening: after much discussion, Lisette recommends Bullier's. Ruggero leaves. Magda chides the other guests for mocking him. After they too have gone, she tells Lisette that she will remain at home that evening. Then, on a whim, she determines to disguise herself and go to Bullier's as well. She goes to get changed. Prunier returns in secret to escort Lisette to Bullier's and flirts extravagantly with her. Lisette is wearing Magda's hat and Prunier tells her that he dislikes it and orders her to take it off. They then set out together. Magda re-enters, disguised as a working girl. She sings a fragment of Prunier's song about Doretta as she leaves, happily anticipating an adventure.\n\n\"Bullier's, Paris\"\n\nThe bar is packed with students, artists and flower girls, singing and dancing. Magda enters and attracts the attention of several young men. She hurries over to a table at which Ruggero is sitting alone. She apologizes for intruding and tells him that she will move away as soon as the young men at the bar stop watching her. Ruggero, who does not recognize Magda in her disguise, asks her to stay. They chat and Ruggero tells Magda that she reminds him of the quiet and elegant girls from his home town, Montauban. They dance happily together. Prunier and Lisette enter, arguing about Prunier's desire to turn Lisette into a lady and to educate her. Magda and Ruggero return to their table and Magda begins to reminisce about a past love affair. Ruggero asks for her name and she answers 'Pauletta'. She writes the name on the tablecloth and Ruggero adds his own beneath. The attraction between Magda and Ruggero grows as they talk. Lisette and Prunier pass their table and Lisette recognizes Magda. Magda signals to Prunier not to give away her secret and Prunier tells Lisette she is mistaken. To prove his point, he introduces Lisette to Magda, who tries to maintain her disguise, to the puzzlement of Lisette. The two couples sit together and drink a toast to love. Prunier notices that Rambaldo has come in, and orders Lisette to take Ruggero out of the room for a few minutes, which she does. Rambaldo demands an explanation from Magda for her behaviour and disguise; she tells him that she has nothing to add to what he has already seen. Rambaldo suggests they leave together but she refuses and declares her love for Ruggero, apologizing for any pain she is causing Rambaldo by her actions. Rambaldo tells her that he cannot prevent her staying with Ruggero. As he leaves, Ruggero returns, and tells Magda that dawn is breaking. They decide to begin a new life together, but Magda secretly worries that she is deceiving Ruggero.\n\n\"The French Riviera\"\n\nMagda and Ruggero have been living together on the French Riviera for some months. They talk about their first meeting and happiness together, living quietly by the sea. Ruggero tells Magda that he has written to his mother to ask for money to pay their growing debts and for her consent to his marriage to Magda. Ruggero imagines their happy married life and the child they may have (Aria: \"Dimmi che vuoi seguirmi\"). Magda is deeply touched, but also uneasy: she knows that her past life as a courtesan would make her unacceptable to Ruggero's family, and possibly to Ruggero if he knew who she really was. As Ruggero leaves to post his letter she meditates on her dilemma, torn between her desire to tell Ruggero everything, her wish not to hurt him and her fear of losing his love. Prunier and Lisette arrive. Lisette has had a brief and disastrous career as a music-hall singer: her performance in Nice the previous evening was a catastrophe. She and Prunier bicker with each other while waiting for Magda. When Magda appears, Lisette begs for her job back, and Magda consents. Prunier expresses surprise that Magda can be happy away from Paris, and delivers a message to Magda from Rambaldo: he is happy to take her back on any terms. Magda refuses to listen. Prunier takes his leave of Lisette (first arranging a rendezvous with her for that evening) and Lisette resumes her duties as Magda's maid. Ruggero returns with a letter from his mother, in which she says that if Ruggero's fiancée has all the virtues he has described to her, he will have a blissful marriage. She looks forward to welcoming the couple to her home and sends Magda a kiss. Magda is unable to keep her secret any longer. She tells Ruggero about her past and declares that she can never be his wife – she would cause his parents too much grief. Ruggero implores Magda not to abandon him (\"Ma come puoi lasciarmi\"), but Magda is adamant that they cannot remain together, and that Ruggero must return home. Like a swallow, she flies back to Rambaldo and her old life, leaving Ruggero behind, devastated.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1924464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924464", "title": "Fairway Rock", "text": "Fairway Rock\n\nFairway Rock (Census block 1047, Nome, Alaska) is a small islet in the Bering Strait, located southeast of the Diomede Islands and west of Alaska's Cape Prince of Wales. It has an area of 0.3 km (0.12 mi). Known to Eskimo natives of the Bering Strait region in prehistory, Fairway was documented by James Cook in 1778 and named by Frederick Beechey in 1826. Although uninhabited, the island is a nesting site for seabirds — most notably the least and crested auklet — which prompt egg-collecting visits from local indigenous peoples. The United States Navy placed radioisotope thermoelectric generator-powered environmental monitoring equipment on the island from the 1960s through the 1990s.\n\nThe granite mass that is now Fairway Rock, like the larger nearby Diomede Islands, is the remnant of an earlier era of glaciation.\n\nFairway Rock is situated 12 mi (19 km) SSE of Little Diomede Island and 20 mi (32 km) W of Cape Prince of Wales, at . The island is variously reported as from 300 m to 1.5 km in length.\nRising steeply from the surrounding waters to above sea level, Fairway Rock can be easily seen from the mainland coast of Alaska at Cape Prince of Wales.\nBecause of its steep cliffs, it poses no additional maritime hazard. The Bering Strait around Fairway Rock is relatively shallow — about 50 m in depth — and oceanographic transects show the island to lie near a current velocity minimum for the strait.\nOcean currents north of Fairway Rock are occasionally studied as an example of a real-world system where a Von Kármán vortex street is generated.\n\nPolitically, Fairway Rock is part of the U.S. state of Alaska and lies inside Alaska's Nome Census Area and the Alaska Department of Fish and Game's Wildlife Conservation Unit 22E. It is conveyed to Inalik Native Corporation. Fairway Rock appears on USGS topographic maps in the Teller Quadrangle.\n\nThe island's bold cliffs are a haven for many migratory birds. The indigenous peoples who have lived nearby for thousands of years come to the island to gather bird eggs in the spring. and have continued to do so as recently as the 1990s.\n\nThe island supports a breeding colony of about 35,000 seabirds, including some 25,000 least auklets and crested auklets. In 1925, the tufted puffin (\"Fratercula cirrhata\"), horned puffin (\"Fratercula corniculata\"), parakeet auklets (\"Aethia psittacula\"), and Pallas' murre (\"Uria lomvia arra\") were reported at Fairway Rock, nesting in the crevices of the island's cliffs. A 1960 account reports that Eskimo inhabitants of Little Diomede reported a glaucous gull (\"Larus hyperboreus\") colony on Fairway Rock larger than that on Little Diomede.\n\nThe Steller sea lion may also breed on Fairway Rock.\n\nFairway Rock was sighted by Captain James Cook on August 8, 1778. It was named by the English naval officer and geographer Frederick William Beechey upon sighting the island in July 1826. Unlike the names he gave to the Diomede Islands, the name \"Fairway\" has persisted.\n\nFairway Rock was passed and mentioned within the accounts of John Muir's voyage aboard the \"Corwin\" in 1881 and Roald Amundsen aboard the \"Gjøa\" in 1906.\n\nWhat is considered the last offensive action of the American Civil War happened in this area: the CSS \"Shenandoah\" fell upon a fleet of whalers working the waters near Alaska's Little Diomede Island and sank more than two dozen ships on June 22, 1865. This is chronicled in the book \"The Last Shot\".\n\nIn 1964, the U.S. Coast Guard icebreaker USCGC \"Northwind\" (WAGB-282) visited the rock, and installed an unmanned, propane-powered oceanographic station in order to measure water flows across the Bering Strait. \"Northwind\"s crew continued to help maintain the station until its closure.\n\nOn August 11, 1966, the US Navy placed a strontium-powered radioisotope thermoelectric generator (RTG) atop Fairway Rock for \"powering environmental instruments\". At this time Commander John C. LeDoux was in charge of NavFac's shore based nuclear power program, whose over 200 trained men only had one power plant to run. With a new NavFac Chief taking over soon, Commander LeDoux feared the program might be cancelled if it had no other applications. In his memoir LeDoux writes that, \"like good marketers we produced a catalog of what was available and sent it to all Navy commands.\" Within two weeks they received an urgent request for a generator at Fairway Rock.\n\nFairway Rock's then-current generator was propane fueled and could not operate in the winter months. Since the generator powered \"detectors on the ocean floor for submarine traffic heading North\" it was considered essential that it be replaced rapidly. However, moving the new generator from Baltimore to Alaska to Fairway Rock would be a complicated process and LeDoux suspected that \"red tape\" would delay the operation for a long time.\n\nCommander LeDoux was able to use contacts in the AEC to get approval to move the generator in only 4 days, which he considered \"a miracle in itself.\" A weekly Air Force flight to Vietnam was able to take it to Alaska. Getting the generator onto the island itself proved more difficult, since there were no Navy helicopters in the area. A bush pilot was contracted, two refueling locations were set up by the Army Corps of Engineers, and a Coast Guard escort (USCGC \"Northwind\" (WAGB-282)) was assigned, allowing the journey over the Bering Strait to be made safely. In the end, the project only took 10 days and \"was done with no money or paperwork – mostly phone calls and personal visits.\" LeDoux was impressed that a project involving so many disparate military and non-military parties could be carried off in such a short span of time.\n\nThe device, developed by Martin Marietta, was the first commercially developed instrument of its kind deployed for unattended field use by the U.S. government. This use was cited in 1978 congressional hearings on potential uses for nuclear waste. In 1981 two additional RTGs were added. All three RTGs were removed from the rock in 1995 in a joint Army/Navy operation with Chinook helicopters from B Company, 4th Battalion, 123rd Aviation Regiment, the \"Sugar Bears\" of Fort Wainwright, AK.\nThe three RTGs were transported from Fort Wainwright, AK to the Richland Consolidation Facility at Hanford Nuclear Reservation in Washington state for disposal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924467", "title": "Tracy Bonham", "text": "Tracy Bonham\n\nTracy Bonham (born March 16, 1967) is an American alternative rock musician, best known for her 1996 single \"Mother Mother\".\n\nRaised in Eugene, Oregon, Bonham is a classically trained violinist and pianist, and is also a self-taught guitarist. She received two Grammy nominations in 1997 for Best Alternative Album and Best Female Rock Vocal Performance. She also appeared with The Blue Man Group on the Complex Rock Tour Live DVD and tour.\n\nBorn in Boston, Massachusetts, and raised in Eugene, Oregon, Bonham began singing at age five and playing the violin at nine. As a teen she received a full scholarship to the University of Southern California for violin, but she eventually transferred (and moved) to Boston, Massachusetts in 1987, where she attended the Berklee College of Music to study voice instead. While there she started writing songs and in early 1995 she released her first EP, \"The Liverpool Sessions\", and the single \"The One\" won best single in \"The Boston Phoenix\" reader's poll.\n\nAfter recording at Fort Apache Studio in Cambridge for several months, in 1996 Bonham released her debut full-length album \"The Burdens of Being Upright\". Magazines such as \"Rolling Stone\" and \"People\" noted her bold approach to rock music. The album went gold within six months and later that year she was nominated for the Grammy Awards for Best Alternative Music Performance and Best Female Rock Vocal Performance (for \"Mother Mother\"). She then went on an extensive tour in support of the album.\n\nThe first single, \"Mother Mother\", went number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot Modern Rock Tracks chart for a month in late 1996. The second single, \"The One\", was a minor hit and peaked at #23 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart, and two different music video versions of the song were briefly in heavy rotation on video music channels MTV and VH1. The third and final single, \"Sharks Can't Sleep\" failed to chart in the US.\n\nAfter the mild success of her first album, problems emerged during the recording of her next album from her own label. In 1998, all of the Island Records as well as Polygram Records and other associated labels were purchased by Seagrams, as the various labels now were under the umbrella imprint of UMG, or Universal Music Group, LLC.\n\nAlthough Bonham had recorded a second album for release (in possibly 1998) titled \"Trails of a Dust Devil\", the new label delayed the release until mid-2000, re-titling it \"Down Here.\" The newly titled album – and the only single released from it, \"Behind Every Good Woman\" – failed to chart.\n\nIn late 2001 she divorced Steve Slingeneyer (of the band Soulwax) after three years of marriage. At the same time, as Bonham began to record new music for her third album, Island Records cited they were going in a different direction (they were now favoring mostly male bands such as Korn and Limp Bizkit) and she was released from her recording contract.\n\nShe then left studio recording behind and began to tour in support of other groups such as the performance group Blue Man Group and even rock band Aerosmith. In 2003 she recorded and released an independent EP titled \"Bee\". It included early versions of \"Shine\" and \"All Thumbs\" and a live version of \"Freed\" (from the \"Down Here\" album), and a cover of Led Zeppelin's \"Black Dog\", where she substituted violin solos for the signature lead guitar line in the original.\n\nShe had only pressed 1,000 hoping to sell 500, but she eventually sold over 12,000 of the EP's while on the various tours. With the money made from the EP she returned to the studio to start work on her third full-length LP in Los Angeles, California. (The \"Bee\" EP was later re-issued in Europe as the \"Something Beautiful\" EP with the addition of a track titled \"Blink the Brightest\" and a bonus DVD with live performances.)\n\nIn 2004, she signed with Rounder Records, whose CEO, John Virant, was a longtime fan and spent over three years convincing Tracy to trust a record company again.\n\nIn 2005 she released her third album \"Blink the Brightest\" through the more pop-oriented Zoe label of Rounder. It was recorded in L.A., where she has lived part-time since 2003. She co-produced the bulk of the album with Greg Collins (U2, No Doubt, Matchbox Twenty); Joey Waronker, who has drummed for R.E.M. and Beck, co-produced four tracks.\n\nAlong with Bonham, the players included drummers Waronker and \"Butch\" (of Eels), bassists Sebastian Steinberg (from Soul Coughing & Neil Finn) and Davey Faragher (having performed for Elvis Costello, Sheryl Crow), guitarists Joe Gore (from Tom Waits, P.J. Harvey) and Dave Levita (Alanis Morissette, Jewel) and keyboard player Mitchell Froom (Paul McCartney, Los Lobos).\n\nShe performed on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" and \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\", and her new songs were featured on XM Radio's The Loft Channel.\n\nWhile in upstate New York in the late fall of 2006 Bonham released the EP \"In The City + In The Woods\", her second self-funded EP. The 11-track disc featured two studio tracks, a cover version of Beyoncé Knowles's \"Crazy In Love\" and an original titled \"In My Other Life\". The rest of the songs are live tracks, which include some older favorites – \"One Hit Wonder\" and a new version of \"Navy Bean\" – covers (\"Blue Jay Way\" & \"Kissing The Lipless\"), and previously unreleased material (\"Your World Turns Upside Down\", \"The Idiot In Me\").\n\nFrom 2007 to 2009, Bonham recorded songs for her new album in Woodstock. The 2010 album, titled \"Masts of Manhatta\", was produced by Bonham and mixed by Tchad Blake, and was released under the New York City indie label Engine Room Recordings in the United States and on Lojinx Records in the UK.\n\nIn celebration of Paul McCartney's 70th birthday on June 18, 2012, Bonham and the group with Danish singer Tim Christensen and his group The Damn Crystals performed the whole \"Ram\" album at Vega in Copenhagen.\n\nBonham currently splits her time between Woodstock, New York, and Brooklyn, New York. She is married to \"Rolling Stone\" executive editor Jason Fine.\n\nAlbums\n\nEPs\nLive\nSingles\nDigital releases\n\nAppears on album\n\n"}
{"id": "1924474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924474", "title": "Albert Mangelsdorff", "text": "Albert Mangelsdorff\n\nAlbert Mangelsdorff (September 5, 1928 – July 25, 2005) was a German jazz trombonist. Working mainly in free jazz, he was an innovator in multiphonics.\n\nMangelsdorff was born in Frankfurt on September 5, 1928. He was given violin lessons as a child and was self-taught on guitar in addition to knowing trombone. His brother, Emil Mangelsdorff, had a jazz record collection, but during the Nazi period Albert's enthusiasm for the music had to be restrained.\n\nMangelsdorff made his recording debut in 1952, playing with Hans Koller. In the same decade, he also worked with small groups and the Dance Hesse Radio Orchestra throughout the decade. As the German representative for the Newport Jazz Festival International Band in 1958, he collaborated with the American musicians Gerry Mulligan and Louis Armstrong.\n\nMangelsdorff recorded prolifically in the 1960s, including sessions with his own quintet, his brother, and with pianist John Lewis. By the time of his solo performance at the Munich Olympic Games in 1972, he was playing more free jazz. \"He made solo trombone – a heretofore unknown concept in jazz – a reality via multiphonics, the physically and technically demanding simultaneous blowing and singing of notes into his horn; the method opened vast new dimensions like harmonies and chords\".\n\nHe later worked with the NDR Big Band, Old Friends (led by Manfred Schoof), and the United Jazz + Rock Ensemble. He died in Frankfurt on July 25, 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924481", "title": "Sarracenia flava", "text": "Sarracenia flava\n\nSarracenia flava, the yellow pitcherplant, is a carnivorous plant in the family Sarraceniaceae. Like all the Sarraceniaceae, it is native to the New World. Its range extends from southern Alabama, through Florida and Georgia, to the coastal plains of southern Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina. Populations also exist in the Piedmont and mountains of North Carolina.\n\nLike other members of the genus \"Sarracenia\", the yellow pitcher plant traps insects using a rolled leaf, which in this species is a vibrant yellow in color, and up to over a meter in height (although 50 cm is more typical). The uppermost part of the leaf is flared into a lid (the operculum), which prevents excess rain from entering the pitcher and diluting the digestive secretions within. The upper regions of the pitcher are covered in short, stiff, downwards-pointing hairs, which serve to guide insects alighting on the upper portions of the leaf towards the opening of the pitcher tube. The upper regions are also brightly patterned with flower-like anthocyanin markings, particularly in the varieties \"S. flava\" var. \"rugelii\" and \"S. flava\" var. \"ornata\": these markings also serve to attract insect prey. The opening of the pitcher tube is retroflexed into a 'nectar roll' or peristome, whose surface is studded with nectar-secreting glands. The nectar contains not only sugars, but also the alkaloid coniine (a toxin also found in hemlock), which probably intoxicates the prey. Prey entering the tube find that their footing is made extremely uncertain by the smooth, waxy secretions found on the surfaces of the upper portion of the tube. Insects losing their footing on this surface plummet to the bottom of the tube, where a combination of digestive fluid, wetting agents and inward-pointing hairs prevent their escape. Some large insects (such as wasps) have been reported to escape from the pitchers on occasion, by chewing their way out through the wall of the tube.\nIn spring, the plant produces large flowers with 5-fold symmetry. The yellow petals are long and strap-like, and dangle over the umbrella-like style of the flower, which is held upside down at the end of a 50 cm long scape. The stigma of the flower are found at the tips of the 'spokes' of this umbrella. Pollinating insects generally enter the flower from above, forcing their way into the cavity between the petals and umbrella, and depositing any pollen they are carrying on the stigmata as they enter. The pollinators generally exit the flower, having been dusted with the plant's own pollen, by lifting a petal. This one-way system helps to ensure cross pollination.\n\nIn late summer and autumn, the plant stops producing carnivorous leaves, and instead produces flat, non-carnivorous phyllodia. This is probably an adaptation to low light levels and insect scarcity during the winter months, and shows clearly the cost of carnivory.\n\nThe yellow pitcher plant is easy to cultivate, and is one of the most popular carnivorous plants in horticulture. The yellow pitcher plant readily hybridises with other members of the genus \"Sarracenia\": the hybrids \"S. x catesbaei\" (\"S. flava\" × \"S. purpurea\") and \"S. moorei\" (\"S. flava\" × \"S. leucophylla\") are found in the wild, and are also popular amongst collectors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924484", "title": "Anneliese van der Pol", "text": "Anneliese van der Pol\n\nAnneliese Louise van der Pol (born 23 September 1984) is a Dutch-American actress and singer. Following her early career in musical theatre, she is best known for her role as Chelsea Daniels on \"That's So Raven\", a role she reprises on its sequel \"Raven's Home\". Van der Pol also has a career as a singer and has recorded several songs for The Walt Disney Company. She made her Broadway debut in 2007, and appeared Off-Broadway in 2009. She has also acted in the 2010 vampire spoof film \"Vampires Suck\" directed by Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer.\n\nVan der Pol was born in Naaldwijk, Netherlands, to Willem van der Pol, who is Dutch and the director of the Physical Plant at the California State University in Fullerton, California, and Dyan Ross, an American from Brooklyn, New York. Van der Pol's mother named her after Anne Frank after visiting the house where Frank hid (van der Pol's mother is Jewish). Van der Pol has two older sisters, Rachel and Sarah. Van der Pol's family moved to the United States when she was three years old, and she retains dual American and Dutch citizenship.\n\nVan der Pol attended School in Bellflower, California where she began acting in third grade at Washington Elementary School. She attended Bellflower Middle School and High School, then transferred and subsequently graduated from the acclaimed Orange County High School of the Arts in Santa Ana, California.\n\nIn 1999, Van der Pol played Sandy Dumbrowsky in the Huntington Beach Playhouse revival of \"Grease\", which earned her a Bobbi Award for \"Best Actress in a Musical.\" She played Eva Perón in the Buena Park Civic Theatre production of \"Evita\" in 1999 and received positive reviews from the \"Los Angeles Times\". At the age of fifteen, she is also the youngest actress in theatrical history to play the role in a professional production.\n\nVan der Pol subsequently starred as \"Laurey\" in an Austin, Texas, musical theatre production of \"Oklahoma!\" from 2000 to 2001. Her performance earned her both an Austin Critics Table Award nomination for \"Best Actress in a Musical\" and a B. Iden Payne Nomination for \"Best Featured Actress in a Musical\". Van der Pol graduated from the Orange County High School of the Arts in 2001.\n\nIn late 2001, she was cast as Chelsea Daniels, the best friend of the title character on the Disney Channel's \"That's So Raven\", a role which she portrayed from 2001 until 2008. Just as the first season of \"That's So Raven\" began, she went back to Austin Musical Theatre to perform in \"Celebrate: AMT,\" a performance highlighting all the shows the company had done up to then. She was a featured soloist. Van der Pol also appeared on the \"Disney Channel Games\" as a member of the Red Team; her teammates were Zac Efron, Kay Panabaker, Dylan Sprouse, Shin Koyamada, and Moises Arias. She also played Heather in a guest starring role on \"Kim Possible\" in the episode \"And the Mole-Rat Will Be CGI.\"\n\nAs the popularity of \"That's So Raven\" grew, Disney showcased van der Pol's musical talents by signing her for several music compilations. She even performed a solo in one episode, \"Alone in the Hallways.\" In 2004, she recorded the song \"Over It\" for the Disney Channel Original Movie \"Stuck in the Suburbs\" which became the soundtrack's lead single. Her second solo recording, called \"A Day in the Sun,\" a cover originally sung by Hilary Duff, appeared on the album \"That's So Raven Too!\". Van der Pol has been associated with several other Disney music projects, including the Elton John song \"Circle of Life\" for a special edition of \"The Lion King\" DVD, \"A Dream Is a Wish Your Heart Makes\" for the \"Cinderella: Special Edition DVD\", and \"Candle on the Water\" from \"Pete's Dragon\" on \"DisneyMania 4\".\n\nVan der Pol was arrested for DUI in Los Angeles on July 10, 2006. She had a blood-alcohol level of 0.19, more than twice the legal limit in California. Police said she swerved and hit a parked car, which caused the parked car to hit two others. Van der Pol later pleaded no contest to two misdemeanors. She was sentenced in 2007 and was ordered to go on probation for 36 months, as well as pay fines and assessments, and attend an alcohol education program. The probation ended in 2010.\n\nAnneliese also had a supporting role in \"Bratz: The Movie\" as Avery, a mean popular girl and best friend to the main antagonist.\n\nIn February 2007, it was announced that Van der Pol would be making her Broadway debut as Belle, in \"Beauty and the Beast\". Van der Pol was the musical's 17th (and final) Belle. She played the role from April 3, 2007 to July 29, 2007 as the show reached its 5,464th (and final) performance. During her run as Belle, Van der Pol also performed at Bryant Park's Broadway in Bryant Park on July 12, 2007 along \"Beauty and the Beast\" co-stars Chris Hoch and Jeanne Lehmann, performing songs from the show. Prior to \"Beauty\"'s final show, van der Pol appeared on \"Live with Regis and Kelly\" for a small interview discussing her Broadway debut and experiences with the show. She also discussed the origins of her name, and performed \"Beauty\" 's \"A Change in Me.\"\n\nIn May 2008, it was revealed that Van der Pol would play the role of Kathy in the new musical, \"\". She originated the role of Kathy during the musical's Broadway previews in Pasadena, California from August 22, 2008 to September 28, 2008. Originally, the musical was scheduled to begin performances on Broadway February 2, 2009 at the Lyceum Theatre with an official opening on February 26, 2009 but the show's Broadway run was postponed due to the economic turmoil in the US and to focus on the future of the musical. The show then made its New York City debut Off-Broadway at the Second Stage Theatre on July 2, 2009 in previews, and officially opened on July 16, 2009. Performances continued through August 9, 2009. On August 21, 2009, she started recording the Original Cast Album for the musical alongside Lauren Kennedy and Sarah Stiles. The album was later released with Sh-k-Boom Records on December 15, 2009.\n\nAs of July 2009, she stated she had received her fourth call-back for the role of Glinda in \"Wicked\" on Broadway. Van der Pol appeared in a twelve part Jewish miniseries revival of \"Shalom Sesame\" (the Jewish version of \"Sesame Street\"). The series premiered during the Hanukkah holiday in December 2010.\n\nIn September 2009, Van der Pol starred as Esther Smith in the Theatre Under The Stars production of \"Meet Me in St. Louis\" that had a limited run from September 29 to October 11, 2009. In December 2009, Van der Pol made a guest appearance on \"The Battery's Down\", as Rhonda Busby Smith. The episode premiered on December 1, 2009 on YouTube, where the web-series ran for two seasons.\n\nVan der Pol starred in Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer's spoof film, \"Vampires Suck\", based on the \"Twilight series\". Van der Pol plays the role of Jennifer, Becca's new best friend. The film's trailer exclusively premiered on Break.com on July 7, 2010 featuring Anneliese's character introducing the cast of \"Jersey Shore\". To promote the film, Van der Pol made appearances during New York Comic Con weekend for meet-and-greets with fans and to join a live discussion panel for \"Vampires Suck\", along with co-star Matt Lanter. She also participated in a fashion pictorial tribute to teen films for \"Zooey Magazine\". The pictorial was shot by David Nguyen and paid tribute to \"Pretty Woman\", \"Romy and Michele's High School Reunion\", \"10 Things I Hate About You\", \"The Princess Diaries\", and \"Legally Blonde\".\n\nVan der Pol appeared in the thriller film, \"Cats Dancing on Jupiter\", alongside Amanda Righetti and Jonathan Bennett. Van der Pol returned to television as a guest star in NBC's television series, \"Friends with Benefits\". Van der Pol also returned to the Disney Channel in a guest starring role on \"Shake It Up\", as Ronnie, a former dancer of \"Shake It Up Chicago!\" The episode, \"Reunion It Up!\" premiered on April 10, 2011.\n\nVan der Pol had been cast as \"Fiona MacLeod\" in Arthur Kopit and Anton Dudley's \"A Dram of Drummhicit\", a Scottish play presented by La Jolla Playhouse. The Scottish play started previews May 17, 2011 in San Diego. On April 24, Van der Pol announced that she would not be continuing with the production, due to artistic differences between herself and the play's director.\n\nIn September 2011, Van der Pol was cast to perform in \"For the Record: Tarantino in Concert\", conceived and directed by Shane Scheel and Christopher Lloyd Bratten. The show featured songs and scenes from the films of Quentin Tarantino, including \"Pulp Fiction\" and \"Inglourious Basterds\", and ran from September 29 to November 12. Van der Pol continued to be part of the 'For the Record' series throughout 2012 with \"For the Record: John Hughes\", \"For the Record: Baz Luhrmann\" and again in \"For the Record: Tarantino in Concert\". She went on to record the production's first cast recording, \"For the Record: Tarantino\" which was released through LML Music on November 13, 2012.\n\nFrom April to May 2012, she starred as Marian Almond in the Pasadena Playhouse production of \"The Heiress\".\n\nShe played the lead role in the Arizona Theatre Company's production of Paul Gordon's new musical, \"Emma\", which ran from December 1, 2012 to January 20, 2013. She returned to the Arizona Theatre Company in Stephen Wrentmore's production of \"The Importance of Being Earnest\" as Gwendolyn Fairfax. The show ran in Tucson from September 14, 2013 through October 5, 2013 and in Phoenix from October 10, 2013 through October 27, 2013.\n\nVan der Pol appeared in an industry reading for the highly anticipated \"Ghostlight, A New Musical\", as the central role of Olive Thomas, in New York. Van der Pol was joined by Robert Cuccioli, Rachel Bay Jones, Jennifer Hope Wills, Trevor McQueen, and Kimberly Faye Greenberg. In July 2014, she played Millie Dillmount in the Will Rogers Memorial Center production of \"Thoroughly Modern Millie\".\n\nOn November 14, 2016, it was reported that Van der Pol would reprise her role as Chelsea Daniels for the second \"That's So Raven\" spin-off series \"Raven's Home\", which premiered on July 21, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924488", "title": "Steve Vizard", "text": "Steve Vizard\n\nStephen William Vizard (born 6 March 1956) is an Australian television and radio presenter, lawyer, comedian, producer, author and screenwriter.\n\nVizard has written for and produced various Logie and AFI award-winning television show - from \"Fast Forward\" to Kangaroo Palace; he has hosted his own five night a week national Tonight Show, \"Tonight Live With Steve Vizard\" for which he was three times nominated for and won a Gold Logie in 1991. He has broadcast on the Austereo, Fairfax and Macquarie Radio Networks and in 2011 was nominated for best Talkback Presenter in Australia; he has written several books ranging on topics ranging from humour to Australia's population policy; and has written works for theatre including \"The Last Man Standing\", the Melbourne Theatre Company's commemorative Gallipoli production in 2015.\n\nVizard founded one of Australia's largest independent Production houses, Artist Services, which was subsequently sold to Granada; he has been the president of the National Gallery of Victoria and the chairman of the Victorian Major Events Company, securing events such as the World Cycling Championships and the World Gymnastics Championships; he has appeared on the cover of \"Time\" and \"Rolling Stone\"; he was an elected representative to the 1998 Constitutional Convention; he was Father of the Year in 2001.\n\nVizard was embroiled in three highly publicised legal proceedings, involving the theft of moneys by his former accountant from the Vizard Companies, and Vizard's civil penalties in 2005 for breaching directors' duties.\n\nVizard was born in Melbourne, Australia, on 6 March 1956, the son of Godfrey Lancelot Pitt Vizard and June Purtell. He grew up in the Melbourne suburb of Hawthorn and was educated at Carey Baptist Grammar School. His father, Godfrey, had been a patrol officer in Papua New Guinea in the early 1950s and had been involved in exploring and mapping the uncharted Gulf region around Kerema, including making first contact with native Kukukuku.\n\nAs a teenager, Vizard was raised on a bush property in the semi-rural suburb of Warrandyte.\n\nAfter finishing high school in 1973, Vizard won a scholarship to study law and arts (philosophy), at the University of Melbourne, where he resided at Whitley College and later St Mary's College, and graduated in 1980. From 1981 to 1986, he practised law as a partner in a Melbourne law firm and until 1988 worked as an international commercial negotiator for multinational RTZ (Rio Tinto Zinc), mainly in Britain and Germany.\n\nIn 1976, while at Melbourne University, Vizard appeared in the Archi (Architects') Revue and the following year he and fellow university students established, wrote and produced the University's inaugural Le Law Revue. After being spotted in the revue, Vizard wrote material for the inner Melbourne comedy scene. Between 1976 and 1982, while still studying at Melbourne University, Vizard wrote and performed in over a dozen productions, working at such theatres and cabarets as The Last Laugh and the Flying Trapeze with a variety of local performers including Rod Quantock, Wendy Harmer, Glenn Robbins, Peter Moon and Paul Grabowsky, who would later work with Vizard as the band leader on his \"Tonight Live\" show.\n\nFrom 1979 to 1985, Vizard was the voice-over man for the racing show \"Punter to Punter\", starring Trevor Marmalade, Dr Turf and Con Marasco, on community radio station Triple R.\n\nIn 1985 Vizard co-wrote and produced a feature film, \"The Bit Part\", starring Nicole Kidman, for which he was nominated for a Writers' Guild award for Best Feature Film Screenplay.\n\nIn 1987 he was the head writer and a performer on a television sketch comedy show, \"The Eleventh Hour\", which kick-started the television careers of Vizard, Mary-Anne Fahey, Mark Mitchell, Glenn Robbins, Ian McFadyen and Peter Moon. In 1987, Vizard performed in the first Melbourne International Comedy Festival, launched by Peter Cook, and was one of the hosts of the Comedy Festival Gala in 1991.\n\nIn 1989, Vizard established, wrote and produced the primetime sketch comedy series \"Fast Forward\". The series was Australia's highest rating comedy series. \"Fast Forward\", and its successor programme, \"Full Frontal\", ran for 10 years and won multiple Logie Awards. Vizard's characters on \"Fast Forward\" included advertising guru Brent Smyth (with Peter Moon), Darryl (the gay airline steward, with Michael Veitch), \"Fakari\" rug salesman Roger Ramshett (with Peter Moon), and Newsreaders Dirk Hartog. He also performed impersonations, most notably of Derryn Hinch, Richard Carleton, Don Lane, Ian Turpie, George Donikian, Geoffrey Robertson and even Gough Whitlam in one instance.\n\nBetween 1990 and 1993 Vizard hosted his own high rating nightly national talk show, \"Tonight Live with Steve Vizard\". He interviewed over a thousand guests, from entertainment legends including Bob Hope, Audrey Hepburn, Mickey Rooney, and Kirk Douglas, to musical stars including Phil Collins, Bob Geldof, Peter Allen, Quincy Jones and BB King, to writers and filmmakers such as Jeffrey Archer, Edward de Bono, Robert Ludlum, Sir Peter Ustinov and Oliver Stone, to comedians such as Spike Milligan, Sir Harry Secombe, Phyllis Diller, Spinal Tap, Robin Williams to Prime Ministers and public leaders.\n\nBy 1994, when he retired from on-air roles, Vizard had been nominated for a Gold Logie as Australia's most popular television performer on four occasions, winning in 1991. He had also won three further Logies as Australia's most Popular Television Presenter as well as 4 Television Society Awards, a Variety Club for Best Comedy Artiste and a Rolling Stone Magazine Award for Best Television Performer.\n\nVizard hosted many awards nights and concerts including the 1992 Logie Awards, the Bali Bombing Memorial Concert and the 1995 nationally televised 50th Anniversary of the End of World War Two Concert. During Vizard's hosting of the 1994 Australian Film Institute Awards, he joked about Australian screen legend Bill Hunter, who had appeared in several nominated movies that year, \"each and every nominated film must feature Bill Hunter. This is a pro-rata rule ... Short films may enter into a Bill Hunter-sharing arrangement.\"\n\nIn 1998 Vizard performed with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, narrating Saint-Saens' \"Carnival Of The Animals\".\n\nAt the 2006 Logie Awards, Vizard appeared with long-time collaborator Michael Veitch in a sketch that reprised one of their most famous roles, that of two camp, bitchy airline stewards.\n\nSince 2009, Vizard has appeared as a regular on various television shows including Tens \"Talkin' 'Bout Your Generation\", Nine's \"Today Show\" and \"A Current Affair\". Vizard has also appeared in a regular role in Mick Molloy's Foxtel comedy series, \"The Jesters\".\n\nIn July 2011, Vizard appeared in the television movie \"Beaconsfield\", playing the late 60 Minutes reporter Richard Carleton in the drama about the Beaconsfield Mine collapse in Tasmania and the rescue of miners Todd Russell and Brant Webb 14 days later.\nIn 2010, Vizard was nominated for a lifetime achievement award for outstanding contribution to the Film & Television Industry.\n\nFrom 2010 he has appeared as a regular weekly panelist on Channel Ten's prime time \"7PM Project\" and \"The Project\" and has filled in for one of the shows hosts, Dave Hughes. He was a panelist and interviewer on the \"7PM Project\"'s controversial interview with St Kilda sex scandal schoolgirl Kim in which the interviewers were clearly skeptical about her attempts to withdraw her previous allegations—the show aired her post-interview confession that she had just lied to them.\n\nIn 2013, 2014 and 2015 Vizard appeared as a regular \"Agony Uncle\" in the ABC's primetime series \"The Agony of Christmas\", \"The Agony of Modern Manners\" and \"The Agony\". He was the one of lead actors in the 2014 award-winning Tropfest film \"Granny Smith\" and was a contributor to the ABC broadcast history of Australian comedy, \"Stop Laughing This Is Serious\".\n\nIn 1989 Vizard established the independent production company Artist Services with his fellow writer and producer, Andrew Knight. From 1989 to 2002 when Vizard retired as Chairman, Artist Services grew to one of the three largest production companies in Australia.\n\nDuring that time Vizard and Knight acted as Executive Producers of over 1400 hours of prime time television shows including several series of ABC drama series \"Seachange\" and several award-winning mini series such as \"Kangaroo Palace\". He was the Executive Producer of \"Big Girl's Blouse\" starring Jane Turner, Gina Riley, Magda Szubanski and Marg Downey, which created and first showcased the popular comedic characters Kath and Kim.\n\nIn 1996, Vizard's Artist Services founded and owned with Foxtel, the comedy channel. During Vizard's chairmanship, the comedy channel produced and broadcast over 80 hours each year of original Australian programming, commissioning emerging writers and performers including \"This Is Gary Petty\" (starring Brian Nankervis, Francis Greenslade, Matt Cameron); \"Off Road\" (starring Lawrence Mooney); \"The Fifty Foot Show\" (starring Paul Fenech and Kitty Flanagan); \"Home and Hosed\" (starring Shane Bourne, Bob Franklin and Ross Daniels); \"Small Tales and True\" (Roz Hammond and Robyn Butler). Vizard remained Chairman of \"the comedy channel\" until 2001.\n\nAs executive producer, Artist Services shows have been distributed internationally and received numerous awards including over 20 Logies, a dozen AFI, Writers Guild and Television Society awards and an International Emmy nomination.\nTogether with Knight, Vizard developed and was the executive producer of several feature films, including \"The Sound Of One Hand Clapping\" (based on the award-winning novel by Richard Flanagan) and \"Dead Letter Office\" (starring Miranda and Barry Otto).\n\nIn 1995, Vizard sold half of the shares in his company Artist Services to John Fairfax Holdings for a reported sum of A$9 million (1995). In 2000 Vizard sold his remaining 50% shares in Artist Services to UK based media company Granada Media plc. for a reputed $25 million. Vizard remained as Chairman until 2002 when he resigned to spend more time on other business and creative interests.\n\nSince 2002, Vizard has been involved in advising emerging Australian talent. He was a consultant to Network Tens comedy show, \"The Wedge\", casting and working with Rebel Wilson, Jason Gann, Adam Zwar.\n\nFrom 2003 he has been a consultant to one of Australia's largest talent management companies, Profile Talent, whose clients include Hamish and Andy, Dannii Minogue, Matt Preston, Andrew O'Keefe and Sonia Kruger.\n\nIn 2010, Vizard executive produced a reality series about Dannii Minogue, \"Dannii Minogue: Style Queen\", which was co-produced with ITV and broadcast in the UK on ITV and in Australia on Foxtel.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2005, in addition to his on and off air roles with Artist Services, Vizard pursued a number of other business interests and public service roles.\n\nIn 1996, was appointed a director of the telecommunications company Telstra Corporation Limited, a position he held until his decision to retire from 17 September 2000 and not stand for re-election to the board.\n\nAs President of the Screen Producers Association of Australia from 1995 to 1997, Vizard was an advocate for the establishment by the Australian Government of the \"Australian Commercial Television Production Fund\" to produce high quality Australian television drama telemovies and series. Vizard subsequently served on the Board of the ACTPF from 1995 to 1998.\n\nVizard has been an advocate for promoting Australian-made content on Australian television, radio and media. In delivering his 1999 Andrew Olle Media Lecture, Vizard advocated the need to maintain Australian quotas for all Australian commercial television networks as well as proposing that the Australian Broadcasting Corporation should be more fully funded and should commission and broadcast exclusively Australian content.\n\nIn 1998, Vizard was elected as a delegate for his home state of Victoria to the 1998 Australian Constitutional Convention in Canberra, representing the Australian Republican Movement. After the constitutional convention, Vizard wrote the book \"Two Weeks in Lilliput: Bear Baiting and Backbiting At the Constitutional Convention\" (). The book became a best seller and was a prescribed text on the NSW HSC syllabus.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2005, Vizard was the President of the Council of Trustees of the National Gallery of Victoria. Under Vizard's presidency, the Gallery commenced and completed two extensive building programs: the $150 million renovation of the International Gallery to house the International collection; and the $400 million construction and opening of the new Ian Potter Centre: NGV Australia, the only major public art gallery in the world dedicated to Australian art.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2005, Vizard was Chairman of the Victorian Major Events Company which attracts major sporting, arts and cultural events to Victoria and Australia. During Vizard's chairmanship events won by VMEC for Australia included the World Cycling Championships, World Gymnastics Championships, World Cup Soccer Qualifiers, International Rugby Tests, the renewal of the Australian Formula One Grand Prix, World Superbike Championships, World Swimming Championships, Mercedes Australian Fashion Week, and others.\n\nIn February 2002 Vizard was the Convenor with the Premier of Victoria of a National Population Summit at which 50 of Australia's most prominent leaders spoke to over 1,000 delegates in a bipartisan debate about all aspects of Australia's population. The bipartisan resolutions from the Summit and the speeches were edited by Vizard and published by Penguin in \"Australia's Population Debate\".\n\nOther organisations with which he has acted as a Director or a Trustee include Film Australia, Australian Children's Television Foundation and the Transport Accident Corporation.\nFrom 1997 to 2005, Vizard served as a member of the committee of the Melbourne Cricket Club.\n\nIn addition to writing for theatre, television and film, Vizard has written and edited several books, including a 2008 biography of Graham Kennedy, \"Graham Kennedy Treasures: Friends Remember the King\" (Melbourne University Publishing, 2008, ) which he co-wrote with Mike McColl-Jones. Other books include \"Best Australian Humorous Writing\" (with Andrew O'Keefe, MUP, 2008), \"Australia's Population Challenge\" (with Hugh J. Martin and Tim Watts, Penguin, 2003, ); \"Two Weeks in Lilliput\" (Penguin, 1998, ), an account of Vizard's experiences attending the 1998 Australian Constitutional Convention; \"Fast forward, the book: the complete guide to 3000 years of television\" (); and \"The Top seven lists from 'Tonight live with Steven Vizard' \"().\n\nVizard's one man play \"Coles Funny Picture Man\", based on the life of the eccentric Victorian bookseller Edward William Cole, was performed by AFI award-winning actor Norman Kaye. Vizard wrote with composer Paul Grabowsky, a substantial new theatre work with music, \"Last Man Standing\", for the Melbourne Theatre Company as their production for the Anzac and Gallipoli commemorations in 2015. Also with Grabowsky he wrote the song cycle \"The Space Between\" for soprano Emma Matthews in 2018.\n\nVizard has been the recipient of an Australia Council grant for Poetry and a University of Melbourne Writers Fellowship. He was nominated for a Writers Guild Award for Best Feature Film Screenplay in 1985; and won (as a co-writer) Writers Guild Awards for Best Comedy Television in 1989, 1990, 1992 and 1993.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Vizard became involved in three separate legal proceedings, primarily related to the activities of the Vizard family's former bookkeeper, Roy Hilliard. In 2001 the Vizard family reported to the police money missing from their family accounts, and Hilliard was subsequently charged with stealing and falsifying the accounts of the Vizard family companies, and in 2005 Hilliard was convicted of falsifying accounts. This led to Hilliard's conviction and sentence to three years jail.\n\nIn the second legal proceedings, Hilliard faced civil action related to the allegations of misappropriating money from the Vizard companies, with Vizard's bank Westpac commencing civil proceedings against Hilliard in 2001. Westpac had conducted an investigation of the fraud and paid out to Vizard's companies some of the money the bookkeeper had taken, and then sued the bookkeeper to recover some of the payout. Vizard was a witness in Westpac's action. In December 2006, the Supreme Court of Victoria found in favour of Westpac and ordered Hilliard to repay over $2 million in funds misappropriated from the Vizards to the bank, plus interest. The judge also rejected claims Hilliard had made against Vizard relating to the use of overseas tax havens and that Hilliard had returned the stolen moneys to Vizard. In September 2009, an appeal by Hilliard against the judgement against him was rejected by the Full Court of the Supreme Court of Victoria, which affirmed that Hilliard had misappropriated over $3 million from Vizard, rejected Hilliard's claims against Vizard, and ordered Hilliard to repay the missing moneys and costs.\n\nThe third legal action involved Vizard directly and arose out of allegations made by Hilliard in 2003 at the criminal trial of his former bookkeeper. Hilliard alleged that Vizard had insider traded while a director of Telstra. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) followed-up the allegations with an 18-month investigation, including searching Vizard's home and office in December 2003. ASIC then formally advised that it would not continue the investigation, as it had no evidence sufficient to prosecute Vizard for inside trading or any other crime.\n\nOn 28 July 2005, the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions formally announced that they had no provable evidence to proceed with any criminal case against Vizard. The Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions Damian Bugg QC along with ASIC Chairman Jeff Lucy vigorously denied assertions by some sections of the media that they had \"gone soft\" on Vizard. ASIC Chairman Lucy made clear to the Parliament in his report of 13 September 2005 that there had never been any provable criminal case against Vizard despite the most vigorous examination by ASIC, and that this lack of any criminal case against Vizard was a view shared by both ASIC and the Attorney General:\n\"In this case, criminal charges were not pursued against Mr. Vizard because the DPP was not satisfied that there was admissible, substantial and reliable evidence of the offence and therefore there were not reasonable prospects of securing a conviction…Whilst this was a decision for the DPP, it was also consistent with senior counsel advice that ASIC had independently received...When ASIC announced on 4 July that we were pursuing civil penalties against Mr. Vizard, there were some suggestions in the press that we had gone soft or that we had somehow been nobbled by government. I have unequivocally rejected those suggestions. They are entirely without foundation.\"\n\nOne of the key issues in the case was that the trades in question had not been made by Vizard, but instead by a company called CTI, of which Vizard's accountant Gregory Lay was the sole shareholder and director. A Vizard family company lent CTI money to invest and had an agreement to receive back proceeds (less a management fee). Lay gave detailed statements to ASIC but none which supported any case against Vizard nor connected Vizard to the trades Lay had made.\n\nSeparately, later in 2005 ASIC said it would commence civil proceedings against Vizard for breaching his director's duties. ASIC's case was that Vizard had breached Sections 183 and 232 of the \"Corporations Act 2001\" (C'th). Vizard and ASIC settled the civil proceedings in 2005 on the basis that Vizard would not contest them, that ASIC made no allegations of dishonesty against Vizard, that a fine of $390,000 be imposed and Vizard agree to be disqualified from acting as a company director for between 3 and 5 years. That settlement took the form of an \"agreed statement of facts\" jointly presented to the Federal Court by Vizard's and ASIC's lawyers, and Vizard agreeing the court should impose penalties for a breach of his duties as a director. In his judgement handed down on 28 July 2005, Justice Raymond Finkelstein accepted that Vizard had breached Sections 183 and 232 of the Corporations Act 2001 (C'lth) through his activities. ASIC proposed a $130,000 fine per offence and 5 years disqualification. Justice Finkelstein disregarded the agreement reached between ASIC and Vizard and instead ordered a disqualification of 10 years.\n\nThe head of ASIC, Jeff Lucy, conceded that there was never a criminal case, or any case involving dishonesty, against Vizard and that the media outrage was largely caused by ASIC's failure to properly communicate the full facts to the media.\n\nIn 1991, Vizard and his family founded the Vizard Foundation, which established Vizard House, a refuge for people in need.\n\nSince its establishment in 1991, Vizard House has provided over 100,000 room nights free accommodation for needy people visiting inner Melbourne hospitals.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2002, the Foundation worked with The Ian Potter Museum of Art, University of Melbourne to support Australian artists. The collection of Australian art is permanently housed at the University of Melbourne. On 27 April 1994, the Vizard Foundation purchased 45 antiquities from an auction held by Christie's of London. These items are on permanent loan to the Ian Potter Museum of Art at the University of Melbourne.\n\nIn 1991, Vizard purchased from Lord Alistair McAlpine the iconic Australian painting First Class Marksman by Sidney Nolan, the only painting of the original 1945 Ned Kelly Series not owned and on public display in the National Gallery of Australia. Vizard donated the painting to the Vizard Foundation and the painting was on public display in the National Gallery of Victoria. In 2010, the Vizard Foundation sold the work for an Australian record of $5.4 million and committed the proceeds for charitable purposes, including indigenous scholarships.\n\nIn 1997, Vizard was a founding trustee with Walter Mikac of the Alannah and Madeleine Foundation, to assist in education against violence to children.\n\nIn 1997, he was made a Member of the Order of Australia, for service to the community, particularly through the Vizard Foundation, and to the arts. In 2008, three years after settling the civil legal proceedings with ASIC, Vizard voluntarily handed back his membership of the Order of Australia.\n\nIn 2002, he received the Australian Father Of The Year award.\n\nIn 2004 Vizard was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Laws from Deakin University Australia.\n\nIn February 2010, Vizard began a brief stint on Melbourne radio station Triple M, filling in for Eddie McGuire who was in Vancouver covering the Winter Olympics.\n\nFrom March 2010 to March 2012, Vizard presented a daily Morning show on Macquarie Radio Network's Melbourne's talkback station, MTR 1377. Vizard interviewed more than 1000 guests, including Academy Award-winning directors Peter Weir and Tom Hooper, director of The Kings Speech, authors Jeffrey Archer, Booker Prize-winning Tom Kenneally, Jackie Collins, Peter Carey, Tim Flannery, Grammy-nominated musicians Faith Hill, Tim Mcgraw, Josh Groban, Chris Botti, George Benson, President of the World Bank James Wolfensohn, Martin Short, Christopher Hitchens, Weird Al Yankovic, Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard and Professor Ross Garnaut.\n\nVizard's radio program was responsible for breaking the Christmas Island asylum seekers boat crash tragedy in December 2010. Vizard conducted the first interviews with the schoolgirl at the centre of the St Kilda Football Club scandal and with David Galbally QC before the delivery of his report into the players' scandal; and covered the Chilean mine disaster and pursued the defrocking of convicted priests by the Catholic Church, on behalf of abused victims.\n\nA number of comedians appeared as guests or regulars on his show including Charlie Pickering, Peter Helliar, Fiona O'Loughlin, Mick Molloy and regular contributors Glenn Robbins, Corinne Grant, George McEncroe, Andrew Goodone and Shaun Micallef.\n\nVizard's radio show received 3 nominations at the 2011 Australian Commercial Radio Awards including Best Talk Presenter in Australia.\n\nFrom 2012 Vizard broadcast Afternoons as a fill in for Dennis Walter on leading Melbourne radio station 3AW, owned by media giant Fairfax.\n\nVizard married Sarah Wilmoth in 1988 and they have five children.\nIn 2006 Vizard's Toorak mansion set a real estate record for Melbourne when it sold for $17.75 million after Vizard received an unsolicited knock on the door offering to buy the landmark home.\n\nEarlier in 2006, Vizard chased three burglars who had broken into his Orrong Rd Toorak mansion. Vizard was awakened at 3am by his 16-year-old daughter who had seen an intruder in her room, and Vizard pursued the intruders into the street in the nude where he was nearly driven over by the getaway Alfa Romeo. The robber, Richard Lovett who had 93 prior convictions, was arrested later that day after becoming involved in a fight in which he stabbed a man in the chest, puncturing his lung, and was subsequently sentenced for the robbery to four years by the County Court of Victoria.\n\nVizard's younger brother, Andrew Vizard, is Professor of Veterinary Science at the University of Melbourne and served on numerous boards including Animal Health Australia Ltd, The Zoological Parks and Gardens of Victoria, and the Australian Wool Corporation.\n\nFrom 1990, Vizard and his family owned and ran the rural Western District station, \"Roxby Park\", which they operated as a successful superfine wool Merino sheep stud. In 2002, Vizard sold \"Roxby Park\" to South Australian Tuna fishing magnate, Tony Santic, the owner of three time Melbourne Cup winning horse, Makybe Diva, who renamed the property \"Smytzer's Lodge\", and uses it as the home of his \"Makybe Diva\" breeding and bloodstock operations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924489", "title": "Hervé Guibert", "text": "Hervé Guibert\n\nHervé Guibert (14 December 1955 – 27 December 1991) was a French writer and photographer. The author of numerous novels and autobiographical studies, he played a considerable role in changing French public attitudes to AIDS. He was a close friend of Michel Foucault.\n\nGuibert was born in Saint-Cloud, Hauts-de-Seine, to a middle-class family and spent his early years in Paris, moving to La Rochelle from 1970 to 1973. After working as a filmmaker and actor, he turned to photography and journalism. In 1978, he successfully applied for a job at France's prestigious evening paper \"Le Monde\" and published his second book, \"Les Aventures singulières\" (published by Éditions de Minuit). In 1984, Guibert shared a César Award for best screenplay with Patrice Chéreau for \"L'homme blessé\". Guibert had met Chéreau in the 1970s during his theatrical years. He won a scholarship between 1987 and 1989 at Villa Medicis in Rome with his friend, writer Mathieu Lindon. He described these years in \"L'Incognito\", published in 1989.\n\nGuibert's writing style was inspired by the French writer Jean Genet and, later, by the work of Austrian writer Thomas Bernhard. Three of his lovers occupied an important place in his life and work: Thierry Jouno, director of an institute for the deaf whom he met in 1976; Michel Foucault, whom he met in 1977; and Vincent Marmousez, a teenager of fifteen who inspired his novel \"Fou de Vincent\" (published in English as \"Crazy for Vincent\").\n\nIn a periode in the eighties Guibert was a reader at the institute for young blind in Paris, Institut National des Jeunes Aveugles, which led to his novel \"Des aveugles\" (published in English as \"Blindsight\").\n\nIn January 1988 Guibert was diagnosed with AIDS. From then on, he worked at recording what was left of his life. In June the following year, he married Christine, the partner of Thierry Jouno, so that his royalty income would eventually pass to her and her two children. In 1990, Guibert publicly revealed his HIV status in his roman à clef \"À l'ami qui ne m'a pas sauvé la vie\" (published in English as \"To the Friend Who Did Not Save My Life\"). Guibert immediately found himself the focus of media attention, featured in newspapers and appearing on several television talk shows.\n\nTwo more books also detailing the progress of his illness followed: \"Le Protocole compassionnel\" (published in English as \"The Compassionate Protocol\") and \"L'Homme au chapeau rouge\" (published in English as \"The Man In The Red Hat\"), which was released posthumously in January 1992, the same month French television screened \"La Pudeur ou l'impudeur\", a home-made film by Guibert of his last year as he lost his battle against AIDS. Almost blind as a result of disease, he attempted to end his life just before his 36th birthday, and died two weeks later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924491", "title": "Australian Father of the Year award", "text": "Australian Father of the Year award\n\nThe Australian Father of the Year award is an Australian award to honour and showcase a fine example of Australian fatherhood. Inaugurated in 1957, the \"Australian Father of the Year\" has been awarded annually to high-profile, famous fathers, from prime ministers & politicians to sportsmen, business leaders, entertainers and musicians acknowledging the support, guidance and love they show to Australian children.\n\nThe Shepherd Centre together with the Australian Fathers Day Council launch a campaign each year to find Australia's best father and the winners are announced at a luncheon, with all proceeds going to \"The Shepherd Centre\". The Shepherd Centre is a charity which teaches deaf and hearing-impaired children to listen and speak using an early intervention program. The Shepherd Centre have been involved in the \"Australian Father of the Year\" Awards since 1998. Barnados Australia have also run an Australian Mother of the Year Award since 1994.\n\nThe award is not associated with the Australian government run Australian of the Year awards.\n\nAustralian Mother of the Year Award\n\n"}
{"id": "1924492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924492", "title": "Silverthorn (novel)", "text": "Silverthorn (novel)\n\nSilverthorn is a fantasy novel by American writer Raymond E. Feist, the sequel to \"Magician\". Released in 1985, it was followed by \"A Darkness at Sethanon\", the final book in \"The Riftwar Saga\".\n\nA year after his brother Lyam's coronation as king, Arutha returns to his city as the new Prince of Krondor, to begin plans for his wedding. Jimmy the Hand, a young thief, foils an assassination attempt on the prince by a fellow thief, and feeling loyalty toward the prince from previously aiding his escape from the city with Princess Anita (in \"Magician\"), he chooses to warn the prince of the attempt on his life instead of reporting the traitor to the Mockers, Krondor's powerful and highly organized guild of thieves. Arutha seeks the Mockers' cooperation to obtain more information on the assassins, and at their request, makes Jimmy a squire of his court. Setting a trap, they capture two agents, who are revealed to be operating out of the temple of Lims-Kragma, Goddess of Death, one of whom is a moredhel whose appearance has been altered. During interrogation, both prisoners will themselves to death rather than divulge their plans. As the High Priestess of Lims-Kragma seeks the truth by bringing them back from beyond the grave, one of the prisoners rises by the power of an unknown enemy, and attacks his captors, slaughtering many royal guards, and addressing Arutha as \"Lord of the West\" before being destroyed by Father Nathan, a priest of Sung.\n\nInjured in the attack, the High Priestess warns Arutha that the forces which opposed him were so powerful that they held the gods in contempt. Arutha leads a strike on the assassins' hideout in Krondor, but even as the assault appears to be going in their favor, the assassins begin rising from the dead and renewing their attack. Many of Arutha's men are slain, and the Black Slayers are only defeated when the entire building is burned to the ground. Believing the threat to be over for the time being, Arutha proceeds with his wedding. Just before the ceremony, Jimmy senses something is wrong, and finds the same assassin from the first attempt on Arutha's life hiding on the roof. He manages to disrupt the assassin just as he is firing at Arutha, but the poisoned bolt strikes Anita instead. The assassin is interrogated, and reveals the enemy to be Murmandamus, a moredhel chieftain and powerful sorcerer. According to a prophecy, Arutha is the only force that stands in the way of Murmandamus's total destruction of the Kingdom and domination over the realm. The assassin also reveals that the poison was given to him by a moredhel agent, who called it \"silverthorn\".\n\nPug is able to keep Anita under a spell that slows the passage of time, giving Arutha time to search for an antidote. With scant clues, he secretly leads a party to the one place most likely to have the answer to any question, the great library at Sarth Abbey. All along his journey, he is tracked by Murad, one of Murmandamus's top generals. They manage to reach the abbey, but their enemies strike again with powerful sorcery, both attacks barely repulsed by the mighty defenses of Sarth Abbey and its priests. From information gathered at the abbey, Arutha's quest turns to the elves of Elvandar for more information.\n\nMeanwhile, Pug returns to Stardock to seek the aid of a scryer, whose vision of the future reveals a dark force behind Murmandamus, a powerful enemy speaking in ancient Tsurani, who is even capable of perceiving the scryer past the barriers of time and probability. Believing the threat therefore to be a danger to both worlds, Pug seeks more information from the Tsurani Assembly of magicians, and with the help of research from the books of Macros, creates a new rift to Kelewan and returns to his old estate with two companions, posing as priests.\n\nIn Elvandar, Arutha is told that the silverthorn plant can also serve as the cure, and grows only around the lake Moraelin, in moredhel-held territory, surrounded by a barrier the elves are unable to pass. He and his band set out for Moraelin.\n\nIn Kelewan, Pug arrives to find himself removed from the Assembly and declared an outlaw. His old friend and fellow Great One Hochopepa is willing to aid him, but they are captured by a Great One loyal to the current Warlord, who seeks to gain control of the Empire. Tortured by the Warlord and his inquisitors, and with his Greater Path magic neutralized, Pug turns to the Lesser Path, becoming the second magician ever to master both paths after Macros the Black. He is able to overcome his captors, and explains his reasons for returning to the Emperor, who grants him reprieve to continue his search in the Assembly's vast libraries. He arrives at the conclusion that the ancient Tsurani enemy has returned, posing a grave threat to both worlds. Pug is reinstated by the Assembly, and following a clue, travels to the northern polar wastelands of Kelewan, discovering a lost race of elves living in a forest under the ice, twin to Elvandar on Midkemia. Their leader, Acaila, offers to instruct Pug in magic over the course of the following year, in order to better face the coming trials.\n\nMeanwhile, Arutha and his band manage to sneak past the moredhel sentries, and discover several silverthorn shrubs in the lake, and make their escape back towards Elvandar. Just as they are about to reach the safety of the Elven forest, they are overtaken by Murad and a band of black slayers. With the help of Tomas, they manage to defeat their enemies and return safely to Elvandar.\n\nWith the antidote made by the elven Spellweavers, Anita is saved, and Arutha's enemies set back by the death of one of their generals. But Murmandamus vows to regather his armies the next year, when the long-awaited invasion into the Kingdom will commence.\n"}
{"id": "1924494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924494", "title": "Coco Robicheaux", "text": "Coco Robicheaux\n\nCurtis John Arceneaux (October 25, 1947 – November 25, 2011) better known by the name Coco Robicheaux, was an American blues musician and artist, from Ascension Parish, Louisiana, United States.\n\nHe was born in Merced, California, United States, the son of Herman Arceneaux from Ascension Parish, Louisiana and Virginia Grant of Waushara County, Wisconsin. His father was of Acadian (Cajun) descent, while on his mother's side his ancestry included English, Norwegian, Scottish, German, Dutch, Welsh, and Native American (Mohawk). Also on his mother's side he was a direct descendant of accused Salem witch Sarah Cloyce. He spent some of his preteen/early teens in France where his Air Force father was stationed for three years. He spent some of his childhood in the French countryside.\n\nArceneaux took his stage name from a Louisiana legend, in which a naughty child called Coco Robicheaux is abducted by a werewolf (Loup Garou or Rougarou). The name 'Coco Robicheaux' is repeated in the song \"I Walk on Gilded Splinters\" from Dr. John the Night Tripper's 1968 album, \"Gris-Gris\". Robicheaux claimed that he played regularly with Mac Rebennack (Dr. John) in the early 1960s, and said: \"Many times I gone and played with him, all around the world, different places. Dr. John, he was very much interested in metaphysics. We had this little place on St. Philip Street. In voodoo they call the gilded splinters the points of a planet. Mystically they appear like little gilded splinters, like little gold, like fire that holds still. They’re different strengths at different times. I guess it ties in with astrology, and influence the energy. That’s what that’s about.\"\n\nRobicheaux appeared in the episode \"Hotshots\", of the USA Network series \"The Big Easy\", playing a New Orleans musician named \"Coco\", who had sold his soul to the devil. Two of Robicheaux's songs were also featured in the episode, \"Broken String\" and \"Spiritland\". Coco Robicheaux appeared as himself in four episodes of HBO's \"Treme\", three times in season 1 and once in season 2. He was also one of ten featured musicians in a 2006 documentary titled \"Chasing the Groove: A New Orleans Funkumentary\".\n\nCoco Robicheaux died in November 2011 in New Orleans, Louisiana, at the age of 64. Robicheaux died quietly, in his usual spot at his favorite bar, the Apple Barrel.\nShortly after Robicheaux's death, two second-line parades were held in his honor, both of which passed by the Apple Barrel bar. Later, more formal musical tributes were held at the French Quarter Festival in March 2012, at the Mid-City Bayou Boogaloo in May 2012, and at the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival in May 2013. In addition, the official 2012 French Quarter Festival poster featured Robicheaux, replacing the figure of Andrew Jackson on horseback in Jackson Square.\n\nOne of his last recordings was for the Danish singer Naja Rosa's album \"The Place I Call Home\" (2012).\nHis last recording took place on his 64th birthday, one month before his death, with singer Frenchie Moe. Mike Hood, Leon \"Kid Chocolate\" Brown, Jimmy Carpenter and Jack Cruz also contributed to the song.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924505", "title": "Benjamin Franklin Bache", "text": "Benjamin Franklin Bache\n\nBenjamin Franklin Bache (February 7, 1801 – November 1, 1881) was a surgeon in the United States Navy before and during the Civil War. He was a great-grandson of the Revolutionary War statesman and author, Benjamin Franklin.\n\nBache was born in Monticello, Virginia, graduating from Princeton University in 1819, and from the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in 1823.\n\nHe entered the Navy as an assistant surgeon in 1824, and in 1828 was promoted to the rank of surgeon. From 1838 to 1841 he served as fleet surgeon of the Mediterranean Squadron. simultaneously serving as professor of natural science at Kenyon College, Ohio.\n\nBache was in charge of the Philadelphia Naval Asylum from 1845 to 1847. He then served as fleet surgeon of the Brazil Squadron from 1848 to 1860, and at the Naval Hospital in New York from 1850 to 1854, serving as director of the medical laboratory of the Brooklyn Navy Yard from 1855 to 1872. During the Civil War, the laboratory provided medical supplies to the Union army. Bache retired on February 1, 1868, and in 1871 was appointed medical director with rank of Commodore.\n\nCommodore Bache died at his home on 283 Henry Street, New York, after a short illness on November 1, 1881.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924507", "title": "The War that Made America", "text": "The War that Made America\n\nThe War that Made America is a PBS miniseries (produced by WQED Pittsburgh) about the French and Indian War, which was first aired in two parts on January 18 and 25, 2006. The series features extensive reenactments of historical events, with on-screen narration provided by Canadian actor Graham Greene. Much of the story focuses upon George Washington, connecting his role in the war with the later American Revolution. Pontiac's War, which followed the French and Indian War, is also covered in the series. The series was filmed in June, July, and August 2004 in and around the Western Pennsylvania region where many events actually took place during the war.\n\nThe book that accompanies the series is \"The War that Made America: A Short History of the French and Indian War\" (2005), by historian Fred Anderson.\n\nBesides Washington, historical people portrayed prominently in the film include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1924513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924513", "title": "USS Moody (DD-277)", "text": "USS Moody (DD-277)\n\nUSS \"Moody\" (DD-277) was a \"Clemson\"-class destroyer in the United States Navy in commission from 1919 to 1922 and from 1923 to 1930. She was named for Justice William Henry Moody.\n\n\"Moody\" was laid down on 9 December 1918 at Squantum Victory Yard of the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation at Quincy, Massachusetts, and launched on 28 June 1919. She was commissioned on 10 December 1919 with Commander James D. Wilson in command.\n\nAssigned to the United States Pacific Fleet, \"Moody\" departed Boston, Massachusetts, on 9 February 1920, loaded torpedoes and ammunition at Newport, Rhode Island, and steamed via New York City, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and the Panama Canal to the United States West Coast, arriving at San Diego, California, on the 31st. She operated along the California coast through June 1920, and then departed San Francisco, California, on 1 July 1920 for Washington, where on 10 July 1920 she joined the cruise of United States Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels, United States Secretary of the Interior John B. Payne, and Admiral Hugh Rodman, Commander of the Pacific Fleet, to Alaska. On an inspection tour of Alaskan coal and oil fields and looking for possible fleet anchorages, the cruise touched at nine ports including Sitka, Duncan Day, and Juneau, and lasted for nearly a month. \"Moody\" returned to San Diego on 31 August 1920 to operate off the California coast in training and in battle exercises for two months. She put into San Diego on 10 October 1920, remaining there and decommissioning on 15 June 1922.\n\n\"Moody\" recommissioned on 27 September 1923 with Lieutenant E. A. Zehner in command. Assigned to Destroyer Squadrons, Battle Fleet, the ship operated along the U.S. West Coast for the next 19 months, and then on 27 May 1925 departed Bremerton, Washington, for fleet exercises in the Hawaiian Islands. After operating from Pearl Harbor on Oahu and Lahaina Roads off Maui for a month, she departed Pearl Harbor on 1 July 1925 for the South Pacific Ocean, stopped at Pago Pago, American Samoa, and then made good will visits to Melbourne, Australia, and Dunedin and Wellington, New Zealand. Returning via Honolulu, Hawaii, to San Diego on 26 September 1925, \"Moody\" resumed operations along the U.S. West Coast operations into 1927, and made a voyage to Panama between February and April 1926.\n\nOn 17 February 1927, \"Moody\" departed San Diego for tactical maneuvers with the United States Fleet in the Caribbean. Proceeding through the Panama Canal on 4 March 1927, she arrived at Guantanamo Bay on 18 March 1927 and operated out of that port and Gonaïves, Haiti, on Fleet Problem VII, a naval exercise involving the defense of the Panama Canal, until 22 April 1927. She then proceeded to New York City for repairs. She departed New York City on 16 May 1927 and arrived at San Diego on 25 June 1927.\n\n\"Moody\" remained in service with the Battle Fleet through mid-1929. From April to June 1928, she made another cruise to Hawaii with the fleet for the extensive exercises of Fleet Problem VIII, a naval exercise held between California and Hawaii. She steamed to Mexico and Panama in early 1929 and then in July 1929 cruised to the Pacific Northwest, traveling as far north as Ketchikan, Alaska.\n\n\"Moody\" decommissioned at San Diego on 2 June 1930 and was towed to Mare Island Navy Yard at Vallejo, California, arriving there on 8 June 1930. She was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 3 November 1930 in accordance with naval arms limitations imposed under the London Naval Treaty.\n\nMost of \"Moody\"′s superstructure was sold as scrap metal on 10 June 1931. The rest of the ship was sold to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for about US$35,000 for use in filming the 1933 World War I submarine movie \"Hell Below\". The movie studio altered her appearance to resemble that of a World War I Imperial German Navy destroyer and hired the marine salvage and construction firm Merritt-Chapman & Scott to place charges of dynamite aboard her at carefully planned locations. \"Moody\" was towed to a point in the Pacific Ocean off San Pedro, California, and on the afternoon of 21 February 1933, the first charge was detonated, splitting \"Moody\" between two watertight compartments so she continued to float after breaking up. Then two other detonations breached the watertight bulkheads, sinking her later that evening. The explosions and sinkings were filmed for use in a scene in \"Hell Below\" depicting the sinking of a German destroyer by torpedoes from the fictional U.S. Navy submarine USS \"AL-14\", portrayed in the movie by \n\n"}
{"id": "1924514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924514", "title": "Vice Vukov", "text": "Vice Vukov\n\nVinko \"Vice\" Vukov (3 August 1936 – 24 September 2008) was a Croatian singer and politician.\n\nVukov was born in Šibenik. In 1959, he achieved instant fame by winning the Opatija Music Festival in his singing debut, with the song \"Mirno teku rijeke\". During the 1960s, he was one of the most popular singers in Yugoslavia, appearing at the Eurovision Song Contest 1963 with the song \"Brodovi\" and at the Eurovision Song Contest 1965 with the song \"Čežnja\".\n\nIn the aftermath of the Croatian Spring movement, he was branded a Croatian nationalist by Yugoslav authorities and had his apartment searched by the police during the 1972 wave of arrests of Croatian Spring leaders. Vukov was on an Australian tour at that time. His wife warned him not to return because he could be arrested too, so instead he went to live in France, returning to Yugoslavia in 1976. By that time, the authorities had lost interest in his case, but his singing career was effectively over; he was blacklisted, barred from performing publicly and all his records were pulled out of stores.\n\nIn 1989 an album of his new songs, albeit without his name on the cover, reappeared in Croatian music stores, signalling the political change. Later that same year, Vukov made a public comeback with a series of 14 sold-out concerts at Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall.\n\nVice Vukov performed some of the most noteworthy Croatian patriotic songs, including \"Zvona moga grada,\" \"Hrvatski kraj\" and \"Tvoja zemlja\".\n\nAfter the introduction of democracy to Croatia, Vice Vukov became a prominent supporter of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia. He ran several times for a seat in the Croatian Sabor, finally succeeding as an independent candidate on the SDP's electoral list in 2003. In 2001 he was suggested as ambassador to Switzerland.\n\nOn 17 November 2005, while descending the stairs in the Parliament building, Vukov slipped and fell, sustaining a serious head injury. He was hospitalised and underwent surgery, but fell into a coma shortly afterwards. In March 2006, according to his doctors, he was in a persistent vegetative state, with no chance for recovery. However, in November 2007, Vukov was reported as being conscious at times, aware of his surroundings, and his condition was described as stable. He died in Zagreb aged 72 the following year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924522", "title": "Makhdoom Ali Mahimi", "text": "Makhdoom Ali Mahimi\n\nMakhdoom Ali Mahimi Shafi'i (1372–1431 A.D) was a saint and scholar of international repute. He lived during the time of the Tuglaq dynasty and that of Sultan Ahmed Shah of Gujarat, and was married to the Sultan's sister. He is widely acknowledged for his scholarly treatises, liberal views and humanist ideals. Mahimi was born into a family of Arab travelers from Iraq who had settled down on the island of Mahimknown as nawayath, one of the seven islands that later formed the city of Bombay (now Mumbai).\n\nNot much is known of his early childhood. He later became the disciple of Mohiuddin Ibne Arabi, a Spanish Muslim saint. Mahimi's reputation grew after the Sultan of Gujarat, Ahmed Shah of the Muzaffarid dynasty, chose him to be the town's Qazi (the Head Muslim Judge/cleric of a town).\n\nMahimi was the first Indian scholar to write an exegesis on the Qur'an, which gained critical acclimation from numerous Islamic scholars including Shah Waliullah Dehlavi. Authoring more than 100 books but we only know name of 21 books from which only 10 books are available in different libraries in India, he was given the moniker \"Qutub-e -Kokan\" (Kokan's Pole Star). He\nwas the first commentator of the Quran in India . His commentary is called \"Tafsirur Rahman.\" It is available in Al Azhar University, Cairo and Ummul-Qura University, Makkah.\n\nMahimi is revered by both the Muslims and Hindus, all Muslim sects hold him in high esteem. After his death in 1431, he was buried in Mahim. The site later became a Dargah (shrine) for devotees.\n\nDuring the annual ten-day Urs festival celebrated on the 13th day of Shawwal as per the Muslim calendar, millions of devotees visit his dargah.\n\nThe highlight of this is a procession of around eight thousand begins at the Mahim Police Station, believed to be the site of his residence. Two police officers from each of the eighty four city police stations represent the police whose association with the saint dates back to the saint's era. A representative of the Mumbai police who is the first to offer the \"chaddar\" (shawl) at the tomb on the first day of the festival. Legend has it that it was a police constable who gave water to the dying saint from his cap. Another story points to some miraculous assistance police officers once received from an old man, whom they believed was the saint, in fighting smugglers.\n\nA room adjacent to the office of the senior inspector of police station contains a steel cupboard that houses the saint's preserved belongings such as his chair, a pair of sandals and his hand-written Qur'an which is considered to be a calligraphic work of art. The room is opened once every year to the public. In 1920 the cupboard was purchased by a senior British police inspector, Raymond Esquire as a tribute to the saint he revered.\n\nOn 2005-05-21, the government of Maharashtra named the JJ Flyover after the saint as a tribute to the saint. The 2.1 kilometre flyover is the longest viaduct in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924523", "title": "Russian Federal State Statistics Service", "text": "Russian Federal State Statistics Service\n\nThe Russian Federal State Statistics Service (, \"Federal'naya sluzhba gosudarstvennoi statistiki\"), also known as Rosstat, is the governmental statistics agency in Russia.\n\nSince 2017, it is again part of the Ministry of Economic Development, having switched several times in the previous decades between that ministry and being directly controlled by the federal government.\n\nGoskomstat (, \"Gosudarstvennyi komitet po statistike\", or, in English, the \"State Committee for Statistics\") was the centralised agency dealing with statistics in the Soviet Union. Goskomstat was created in 1987 to replace the Central Statistical Administration, while maintaining the same basic functions in the collection, analysis, publication and distribution of state statistics, including economic, social and population statistics. This renaming amounted to a formal demotion of the status of the agency.\n\nIn addition to overseeing the collection and evaluation of state statistics, Goskomstat (and its predecessors) was responsible for planning and carrying out the population and housing censuses. It carried out seven such censuses, in 1926, 1937, 1939, 1959, 1970, 1979 and 1989.\n\nHouse No. 39, on Ulitsa Myasnitskaya, Tsentrosoyuz building, home to Goskomstat, was designed by the Swiss-born architect Le Corbusier.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924524", "title": "Billy Ripken", "text": "Billy Ripken\n\nWilliam Oliver Ripken (born December 16, 1964), nicknamed Billy The Kid, is an American former professional baseball infielder. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from – for the Baltimore Orioles (1987–92, '96), Texas Rangers (1993–94, '97), Cleveland Indians (1995), and Detroit Tigers (1998). During his career, he batted and threw right-handed. He is the younger brother of Hall of Famer Cal Ripken Jr.. He currently serves as a radio host for XM Satellite Radio and a studio analyst for MLB Network.\n\nBorn in Maryland, Ripken grew up traveling around the United States as his father, Cal Ripken Sr., was a player and coach in the Orioles' organization. After attending Aberdeen High School, Ripken was drafted by the Orioles in the 11th round of the 1982 MLB draft. He reached the MLB in 1987, creating the first situation in baseball history that a father had managed two sons on the same team, as his brother played for the Orioles and his father, Cal Ripken Sr., managed the team. Ripken was a light hitter better known for his fielding skills, although he led the Orioles in batting average with a .291 mark in 1990. He served as their starting second baseman most of his first stint with the team. After the Orioles released him following the 1992 campaign, he played with four other teams (including the Orioles in 1996), serving mostly as a utility infielder and never holding a starting role for very long. He played his final game in 1998 for the Detroit Tigers.\n\nRipken was born to Cal, Sr. and Violet \"Vi\" Ripken in Havre de Grace, Maryland. Though the Ripkens called Aberdeen, Maryland, their home, they were often on the move because of Cal, Sr.'s coaching duties with the Baltimore Orioles organization. This gave Bill the chance to be around his father's teams. He attended Aberdeen High School, where he played baseball. Over his final two seasons, he did not lose a single game as a pitcher, but the infield was where he planned to spend his career.\n\nBefore the 1982 Major League Baseball draft, Cal, Jr., Bill's brother who was on his way to winning the Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award with the Orioles, remarked, \"Billy might go pretty high in the draft. I'd love for the Orioles to take him. That would be okay, wouldn't it? Having your father and brother with the same team?\" The Orioles would wind up selecting Bill in the 11th round of the draft.\n\nRipken began his professional career that same year with the Rookie League Bluefield Orioles, where he played mostly shortstop and third base. In 27 games, in which he only totaled 45 at bats, Ripken posted a batting average of .244 with 11 hits and four runs batted in. Next season, Ripken remained at Bluefield and was used almost exclusively as a shortstop, although he also pitched the final of a game, allowing no runs. He batted .217 with 33 hits and 13 RBI in 48 games. In 1984, he was promoted to the Hagerstown Suns of the Class A Carolina League, where he appeared in 115 games. He batted .230 with 94 hits, the first two home runs of his career, and 40 RBI while posting a .948 fielding percentage at shortstop.\n\nRipken's 1985 season would be split between three teams. He spent the bulk of the year with the Daytona Beach Admirals of the Class A Florida State League, batting .230 with 51 hits and 18 RBI. He also appeared in 14 games with Hagerstown and 18 games with the Double-A Charlotte O's of the Southern League, batting .255 and .137, respectively, with those teams. He did not hit a home run in 1985. He played the whole 1986 season for Charlotte, batting .268 with 142 hits, 20 doubles, three triples, five home runs, and 62 RBI in 141 games. In addition, he led the Southern League in four fielding categories. In 1987, he was called up to the Triple-A Rochester Red Wings of the International League, where he played 74 games, batting .286.\n\nIn July 1987, the Orioles released Rick Burleson and called Ripken up to replace him. He debuted on July 11, creating the first instance in baseball history in which a father managed two sons on the same major league team, as his father was the Orioles' manager and his brother was their shortstop. While with the Orioles, Ripken played alongside his brother, Cal Ripken, Jr.; he was managed by his father, Cal, Sr., from 1987–1988. Billy did not have a hit in his debut but picked up his first hit as one of two against Charlie Leibrandt of the Kansas City Royals on July 16. Three days later, Ripken hit his first home run against Bud Black, helping the Orioles defeat Kansas City 5–1. Expected to be more of a fielder than a hitter, Ripken finished his inaugural season with a .308 batting average, two home runs, and 72 hits in 58 games.\n\nBilly was given the Orioles' second base role in 1988; with his brother, Cal, Jr., at shortstop, the pair formed the Orioles' double play combination. Six games into the season, Cal, Sr., was fired as the Orioles' manager, the quickest managerial firing in major league history. Immediately after, Billy switched his uniform number from 3 to his father's 7, saying, \"I just didn't want to see anybody else wear it.\" The Orioles lost their first 21 games of the season en route to a 54-107 finish. A picture of Billy appeared on the cover of \"Sports Illustrated\" on May 2, 1988, used in an emblematic fashion to symbolize frustration at the team's struggles. In his rookie season, Billy played a career-high 150 games, batting .207 with 106 hits, two home runs, 34 RBI, and a .984 fielding percentage.\n\nA broken hand caused Ripken to miss the first two weeks of 1989, but he took over the job again on April 19, holding it until a strained right shoulder sidelined him in late August. Though Ripken returned from the injury on September 7, he did not see much playing time for the rest of the season. On August 7, in a 9–8 win over the Boston Red Sox, Billy and Cal Combined for seven hits, the American League (AL) record for brothers in the same game. In 115 games, Ripken batted .239 with 76 hits, two home runs, 26 RBI, and a .981 fielding percentage, which was third in the AL.\n\nIn 1990, Ripken had perhaps his most successful campaign offensively. The Orioles' second baseman with the exception of a stretch in August in which he was hurt, he batted .291, the highest total of his career and a mark which would lead the Orioles in 1990. He also tied with his brother for the team lead in doubles (28) Defensively, Ripken finished fifth among AL second basemen with a .987 fielding percentage and led AL hitters with 17 sacrifice hits. Billy and Cal committed a total of 11 errors, the fewest in major league history among second baseman-shortstop combinations that appeared in at least two-thirds of their team's games at their respective positions.\n\nBetween July 14 and August 17, Ripken missed several games in 1991 with an injury. His batting average dropped to .216 that year, and he had 62 hits, no home runs, and 14 RBI in 104 games. He had a .986 fielding percentage, but that did not qualify him for a spot in the top five in the AL. He, Tim Hulett, and Juan Bell combined for the lowest on-base percentage in the major leagues at any position (.240) and became the subject of trade rumors after the season. While his brother won the Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award, the Orioles finished an awful sixth.\n\nMark McLemore shared second base with Ripken in 1992. Ripken hit what would be a career-high four home runs, batting .230 with 76 hits and 36 RBI in 111 games. He had a .993 fielding percentage. After the 1992 season, the Orioles acquired Harold Reynolds, which signaled the end of Ripken's days with the team. The Orioles officially ended his tenure by releasing him after the season.\n\nIn 1989, Ripken's Fleer card showed him holding a bat with the expletive \"FUCK FACE\" written in plain view on the knob of the bat. Fleer subsequently rushed to correct the error, and in their haste, released versions in which the text was scrawled over with a marker, whited out with correction fluid, and also airbrushed. On the final, corrected version, Fleer obscured the offensive words with a black box (this was the version included in all factory sets). Both the original card and many of the corrected versions have become collector's items as a result. There are at least ten different variations of this card. Once news got out, the original card's price went up to several hundred dollars.\n\nYears later, Ripken admitted to having written the expletive on the bat; however, he claimed he did it to distinguish it as a batting practice bat, and did not intend to use it for the card. He went on to say, \"I can't believe the people at Fleer couldn't catch that. I mean, they certainly have to have enough proofreaders to see it. I think not only did they see it, they enhanced it. That writing on that bat is way too clear. I don't write that neat. I think they knew that once they saw it, they could use the card to create an awful lot of stir.\" Some collectors list the card as the \"Rick Face\" card, as they claim that the proximity between the letters appears to make the word \"FUCK\" look similar to \"RICK\".\n\nThe Texas Rangers signed Ripken in 1993 to play second base after Jeff Frye severely injured his knee. He began the season as their second baseman, but after batting .204 to open the year, he lost the role in May to Doug Strange. On June 4, he returned to the starting lineup when he took over the position of shortstop from Jeff Huson. However, he suffered a pulled left hamstring on June 20, an injury which would keep him out for the rest of the season except for a few games in September. In 50 games, he batted what would be a career-low .189, with 25 hits, four extra-base hits (all doubles), and 11 RBI. Ripken became a free agent after the season but re-signed with the Rangers on December 18. He batted .309 for them but was used sparingly as a utility player, making only 32 appearances. After the season, he again became a free agent.\n\nRipken signed with the Cleveland Indians for 1995 but spent nearly the entire season with the Triple-A Buffalo Bisons of the American Association; the Indians had told him he was just around for insurance in case one of their infielders was injured. At Buffalo, Ripken made the American Association All-Star team and ranked among league leaders in games (130; fifth), hits (131; eighth), and doubles (34; third, behind John Marzano's 41 and Tracy Woodson's 35). He was called up in September and batted .412 in eight games for the Indians before becoming a free agent after the season.\n\nIn 1996, Ripken was reunited with his brother when the Orioles signed him once again. Initially signed to a minor league contract, he made the team and spent the full season on the Orioles' roster, filling in at third base for the injured B. J. Surhoff from May 21 through June 6. He appeared in 57 games for the Orioles, batting .230 with 31 hits, two home runs, and 12 RBI. Defensively, he did not make a single error at third base. The Orioles reached the playoffs that year, but Ripken was left off the playoff roster. After the season, he became a free agent.\n\nRipken again returned to a team in 1997 when he signed with the Rangers. Initially used as a utility man, he took over at shortstop from Benji Gil on June 12 after batting .314 to start the season. That same day, he had the first RBI in interleague history, a single against Mark Gardner in a 4–3 loss to the San Francisco Giants. His stay as starter did not last long, though; he suffered a herniated disk in his back on June 17. Though he would return to play several more games that season for the Rangers, he failed to remain the starting shortstop. In 71 games, he batted .276 with 56 hits, three home runs, and 24 RBI. After the season, he again became a free agent.\n\nThe Detroit Tigers signed Ripken in December, 1997 and gave him the starting shortstop job to begin the 1998 season due to a broken ankle suffered by Deivi Cruz in the offseason. However, after 27 games, in which he hit .276, Ripken was placed on the disabled list with a knee injury. He went on a rehab assignment in June, but the Tigers opted to release him instead of reinstating him from the disabled list. This would be Ripken's last major league tenure; he chose to retire.\n\nWhile Cal, Jr., set a major league record by playing in 2,632 consecutive games, Billy often found himself on the disabled list in his career. This, however, was due to his all-out style of play. Jimmy Keenan of the Society for American Baseball Research wrote, \"Infielder Billy Ripken attacked the game of baseball with reckless abandon and paid the price, sustaining an inordinate number of injuries during his career. He never changed his all-out, hustling style of play, earning the reputation of a player who left it all on the field.\"\n\nBilly and Cal Ripken are one of only four brother combinations in major league history to play second base and shortstop on the same club. The others are Garvin and Granny Hamner, for the Philadelphia Phillies in 1945; the twins Eddie and Johnny O'Brien, with the Pittsburgh Pirates in the mid-1950s, and Frank and Milt Bolling, for the Detroit Tigers in 1958.\n\nBilly also holds some records of his own. In addition to having the first RBI in interleague history, he has the 27th-best all-time fielding percentage of major league second basemen, at .987.\n\nOn February 13, 1989, Ripken married Candace Cauffman. They live in Fallston, Maryland, and have two daughters, named Miranda and Anna, and two sons, named Reese and Jack. Ripken is currently a studio analyst for MLB Network and a radio personality for SiriusXM. After retiring from baseball, he partnered with Cal to form Ripken Baseball, which owns three minor league teams, the Aberdeen IronBirds, Augusta Greenjackets, and Charlotte Stone Crabs. Ripken Baseball and MLB.com, the official website of Major League Baseball, launched GetGreat.com on March 6, 2009. GetGreat.com is a youth baseball instructional site.\n\nBilly has taken part in the writing of several books relating to the development of young baseball players. In 2005, he and Cal wrote \"Play Baseball the Ripken Way: The Complete Illustrated Guide to the Fundamentals\", and co-authored by Larry Burke. Working with Rick Wolff, the brothers released the book \"Parenting Young Athletes the Ripken Way\" in 2006 in response to Cal seeing too many young athletes who he felt were being pressured unnecessarily by their parents. He said, \"I was thinking, `This just creates too much pressure on kids.' They need to find an environment in which they can explore their game ... without all these kinds of pressures being brought to bear. Once I started thinking about it, I saw we had more than enough to fill a book.\" They also wrote \"Coaching Youth Baseball the Ripken Way\", co-written with Scott Lowe and published in 2007.\n\nAlong with his brother, Billy formed the Cal Ripken, Sr., Foundation in 2001 to give underprivileged children the opportunity to attend baseball camps around the country and learn the game. The Foundation is a branch of Ripken Baseball. In addition to controlling these camps and Ripken's minor league teams, Ripken Baseball operates for-profit camps and designs ballfields for youth, college, and professional teams.\n\nDuring the 2009 World Baseball Classic, Ripken served as a first base coach for the United States national team. The United States advanced to the semifinals in the tournament.\n\nRipken's mother, Violet Ripken, was kidnapped at gunpoint and safely returned on July 24, 2012. She was gone for 12 hours before her disappearance was reported to authorities. On October 15, 2013, she was approached by a man with a handgun in a parking lot at the NBRS Bank in Aberdeen, Maryland. The man demanded her car, but she activated a key alarm and he fled. She was unharmed. Lt. Frederick Bundick, spokesman for the Aberdeen Police, said the two incidents appeared unrelated.\n\nHe is currently the national spokesman for Blue Coast Savings, a management consulting group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924527", "title": "1983 Portuguese legislative election", "text": "1983 Portuguese legislative election\n\nThe Portuguese legislative election of 1983 took place on 25 April. The last election, in October 1980 had been won by a right-wing coalition, the Democratic Alliance and Francisco Sá Carneiro had retained office as Prime Minister with an increased majority.\n\nHowever, Sá Carneiro, along with other important members of the coalition, died in an aircrash only two months after the election, on 5 December 1980. Such happenings caused a massive political instability and Francisco Pinto Balsemão, a senior official of the Social Democratic Party, the largest party in the Alliance, became Prime Minister. But Balsemão lacked support from such senior members of his party as Aníbal Cavaco Silva, and several ministers resigned. Moreover, the right-wing policy was criticized by the left-wing and by the trade unions, and in February, the General Confederation of the Portuguese Workers, with the support of the Communists, called for a general strike that shook the government. The wave of resignations among Balsemão's ministers continued and by the end of the year, he also resigned. Because no one inside the Social Democratic Party accepted the office of Prime Minister, the President Ramalho Eanes dissolved the Parliament and called an election for April.\n\nThe election was won by the Socialist Party with 36%, and Mário Soares was nominated Prime Minister. However, the Socialists lacked a majority in the Assembly of the Republic and were forced to form a coalition with the Social Democrats, which achieved 27%, in what was called the \"Central Block\". Although this coalition allowed Soares to govern, several members of both parties were against it, and internal attacks led to the collapse of the coalition after less than two years. In the election that followed, the Communist-dominated United People Alliance lost 3 MPs and the Democratic and Social Center, after the dissolution of the Democratic Alliance, was now alone in the Parliament with 30 MPs, a loss of 16. The election marked the beginning of a process of bi-polarization of Portuguese politics.\n\nThis was the last legislative election to be won by the Socialist Party until 1995.\n\nThe Assembly of the Republic has 250 members elected to four-year terms. Governments do not require absolute majority support of the Assembly to hold office, as even if the number of opposers of government is larger than that of the supporters, the number of opposers still needs to be equal or greater than 126 (absolute majority) for both the Government's Programme to be rejected or for a motion of no confidence to be approved.\n\nThe number of seats assigned to each district depends on the district magnitude. The use of the d'Hondt method makes for a higher effective threshold than certain other allocation methods such as the Hare quota or Sainte-Laguë method, which are more generous to small parties.\n\nThe major parties involved and the respective leaders:\n\n\nMário Soares, leader of the Socialist Party, was nominated Prime Minister.\n\n! rowspan=\"2\" colspan=2 style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=left|Parties\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|Votes\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! colspan=\"5\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=\"center\"|Seats\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align:right;\" |MPs %/votes %\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1980\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1983\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n\n!rowspan=2|Constituency!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S\n!rowspan=2|TotalS\n!colspan=2 | PS\n!colspan=2 | PSD\n!colspan=2 | APU\n!colspan=2 | CDS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924531", "title": "Stagecoach in Mansfield", "text": "Stagecoach in Mansfield\n\nStagecoach in Mansfield is the sector of the Stagecoach Group that operates buses in Mansfield. They have around 60 buses and 200 employees.\n\nThey carry more than 6 million passengers per year, with a passenger increase of approximately 7%.\n\nAs well as Mansfield, they also operate certain buses to Nottingham, Chesterfield, Sutton-in-Ashfield, Bolsover, Eckington, Sheffield, Langwith, Edwinstowe and Newark-on-Trent.\n\nAlthough most routes operate all week, some routes do not operate on Sundays, and some routes only operate on Sundays. On bank holidays, a Sunday service is operated.\n\n'pronto' (operated jointly with Trent Barton) between Nottingham and Chesterfield via Mansfield, from 16 February 2020 Stagecoach will operate all journeys on the route thus ending the partnership between both operators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924533", "title": "Moyglare Stud Stakes", "text": "Moyglare Stud Stakes\n\nThe Moyglare Stud Stakes is a Group 1 flat horse race in Ireland open to two-year-old thoroughbred fillies. It is run at the Curragh over a distance of 7 furlongs (1,408 metres), and it is scheduled to take place each year in late August or early September.\n\nThe event is named after its long-term sponsor, Moyglare Stud. It was formerly contested over 6 furlongs, and for a period it held Group 3 status. It was promoted to Group 2 level in 1979, and to Group 1 in 1983. Its distance was extended to 7 furlongs in 1992. In 2014 it became part of the Irish Champions Weekend fixture.\n\nThe Moyglare Stud Stakes became part of the Breeders' Cup Challenge series in 2009. The winner of the race now earns an automatic invitation to compete in the same year's Breeders' Cup Juvenile Fillies Turf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924534", "title": "Missouri Route 266", "text": "Missouri Route 266\n\nRoute 266 is a section of former U.S. Route 66 (US 66) with termini between Interstate 44 (I-44) at Springfield and Route 96 west of Halltown. The road runs as a two-lane highway its entire length of and is marked as Historic Route 66.\n\n Route 266 starts at its intersection of Missouri Route 96 west of I-44. At Halltown, the Route meets Route Z. In , Route 266 deviates from old Route 66 in a project to improve access to Springfield-Branson Regional Airport. For , the route follows the new roadway. At the Partial cloverleaf interchange at Interstate 44, the road continues as Interstate 44 Business.\n\nRoute 266 was originally assigned to a new expressway built through downtown Springfield (specifically, Chestnut Expressway between College Street and Glenstone Avenue). As Interstate 44 was constructed, and US 66 was assigned concurrently with it, the now former US 66 from Springfield to Route 96 was added to Route 266. The westernmost section (which passed through Paris Springs Junction and Spencer) would be turned into county roads. Eventually, Chestnut Expressway would be designated Interstate 44 Business, and Route 266 would have its current route.\n"}
{"id": "1924535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924535", "title": "List of Mayflower passengers who died in the winter of 1620–21", "text": "List of Mayflower passengers who died in the winter of 1620–21\n\nForty-five of the 102 Mayflower passengers died in the winter of 1620–21, and the \"Mayflower\" colonists suffered greatly during their first winter in the New World from lack of shelter, scurvy, and general conditions on board ship. They were buried on Cole's Hill.\n\nPeople marked * below were probably buried in unmarked graves in the Coles Hill Burial Ground in Plymouth, Massachusetts. In 1921, some of the remains of persons buried on that hill were collected into the sarcophagus that is the Pilgrim Memorial Tomb on Cole's Hill in Plymouth. Many of the people listed here are named on the Tomb.\n\n\n\n\nAccording to Bradford's Register, a contemporary source\n\n\n\nFour deaths occurred in months unknown before the first Thanksgiving bringing the total deaths to 51.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924537", "title": "Lochinvar", "text": "Lochinvar\n\nLochinvar (or Lan Var) is a loch in the civil parish of Dalry in the historic county of Kirkcudbrightshire, Dumfries and Galloway Scotland. It is located in the Galloway Hills, around north-east of St. John's Town of Dalry. The loch formerly had an island on which stood Lochinvar Castle, seat of the Gordon family. In the 20th century the loch was dammed to form a reservoir, raising the water level and submerging the island with the ruins of the castle. The loch is used for trout fishing.\n\nThe name Lochinvar is from Scots Gaelic \"Loch a' bharra\" (older Gaelic \"Loch an bharra\", the genitive of \"barr\" = summit) meaning \"Loch on the hilltop\". Consequently it is stressed on the last syllable (unlike Lochinver).\n\nThe Gordon family arrived at Lochinvar from Berwickshire in 1297. They established a castle, but the date of the ruins on the former island is not known.\n\nJohn Gordon of Lochinvar was a supporter of Mary, Queen of Scots. His son, Sir Robert Gordon of Lochinvar (c.1565–1628) was one of the first to embark in the scheme for the establishment of colonies in North America. He obtained a charter of what was called the barony of Galloway in Nova Scotia on 8 November 1621. In 1625 he published a tract on the subject entitled \"Encouragements for such as shall have intention to bee Vndertakers in the new plantation...By mee Lochinvar...Edinburgh, 1625\". Lochinvar was created a baronet in 1626. On 12 July 1626 he was appointed a member of the council of war for Scotland and a Commissioner for the Middle Shires, residing at Greenlaw, Crossmichael Parish, Kirkcudbrightshire. His second son, Robert Gordon of Gelston, joined with his father in the plantation of America in the grant of the barony of Galloway in Nova Scotia in 1621. His eldest son, Sir John Gordon of Lochinvar, 2nd baronet, was a supporter of Charles I and a notable Protestant. He was created Viscount of Kenmure by Charles at his Scottish coronation in 1633.\n\n\"Young Lochinvar\" is a key character in Walter Scott's epic poem \"Marmion\" (1808). Although the tale is associated with the historical Sir William Gordon of Lochinvar, 15th-century laird of Lochinvar, there is no evidence for the events described in the poem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924538", "title": "Steve Jones (golfer)", "text": "Steve Jones (golfer)\n\nSteven Glen Jones (born December 27, 1958) is an American professional golfer, best known for winning the U.S. Open in 1996.\n\nJones was born in Artesia, New Mexico. He was a semi-finalist at the U.S. Junior Amateur in 1976. He attended the University of Colorado and turned professional in 1981.\n\nIn the early years of his professional career, Jones did not have much success. He played the PGA Tour in 1982, but only made three cuts. His first top-10 finish came at the Texas Open in September 1985, and in 1986 he was medalist at the PGA Tour Qualifying Tournament, allowing him to retain his card for the following year.\n\nJones won on the PGA Tour for the first time at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am in 1988. The following year, 1989, was the winningest of his career with three PGA Tour wins. In January, he opened the season with a win in the MONY Tournament of Champions. He won again the next week, in a playoff over Paul Azinger and Sandy Lyle in the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic. In June he captured the Canadian Open with a two-stroke win over Mark Calcavecchia, Mike Hulbert and Clark Burroughs. He finished the season a career-best eighth on the money list.\n\nIn November 1991, Jones suffered ligament and joint damage to his left ring finger in a dirtbike accident, and he missed almost three years of play as a professional. He played in only two events in 1994.\n\nJones began his comeback in earnest in 1995, when he had two top-10 finishes. In 1996 he achieved three top-10 finishes by May, but he was still a rank outsider when he picked up the U.S. Open title that June, which was the only major championship of his career. He defeated Tom Lehman and Davis Love III by one stroke, and was the first sectional qualifier to win the tournament since Jerry Pate in 1976.\n\nJones played for the United States in the 1996 World Cup of Golf. He won two more PGA Tour events in 1997. In January, he shot 26-under to defeat Jesper Parnevik by 11 strokes at the Phoenix Open. He followed that in September with his second career win at the Canadian Open, by one stroke over Greg Norman.\n\nIn 1998, he won the Quad City Classic, his last PGA Tour victory to date.\n\nSince 1999, Jones has slipped steadily down the money list. He remained exempt on the PGA Tour through 2006 because a major tournament win carried a 10-year exemption when he won in 1996. He missed part of 2003 and all of 2004 after undergoing surgery for tennis elbow, but starting playing again in 2005.\n\nJones was a captain's assistant for the United States team at the Ryder Cup in 2004.\n\nIn 2007, he played in nine PGA tour events and four Nationwide tour events, making the cut six times, but with no top-25 finishes.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, Jones had surgeries for tennis elbow. He made his first full golf swings in January 2011. In 2011, Jones returned to playing professional golf. In January, Jones played the Bob Hope Classic on the PGA Tour.\n\nJones began playing on the Champions Tour (now PGA Tour Champions) in April 2011, making his debut at the Liberty Mutual Legends of Golf, where he and partner Doug Tewell tied for 10th in the Raphael Division. His best individual effort among his 10 official starts was a T16 at The Senior Open Championship at Walton Heath. In 2012, he played in 12 Champions Tour events, with five top-25 finishes, earnings of $164,934, and a Champions Tour personal best finish of a tie for second at the 2012 Liberty Mutual Legends of Golf. His 11th-place finish at the National Qualifying Tournament earned him a conditional spot on the tour for the following year. In 2013, he played in 15 events with three top-25 finishes and $153,335 in earnings. In 2014, he played 11 events on the Champions Tour, making 9 cuts, and with a best finish T40 at the Pacific Links Hawaii Championship. In 2015, he played 13 events, making all the cuts and posting one top ten, T9 at the Senior PGA Championship. Jones has not played any Champions Tour events in 2016.\n\nHis career on the PGA Tour Champions consists of 70 events played, making 66 cuts and two top-10 finishes. His total career earnings are over $800,000.\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (2–1)\n\nCUT = missed the half way cut\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place.\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924540", "title": "Clotilde de Surville", "text": "Clotilde de Surville\n\n\"Clotilde de Surville\" was the supposed author of the \"Poésies de Clotilde\". The generally accepted legend gave the following account of her:\nMarguerite-Éléonore Clotilde de Vallon-Chalys, dame de Surville, was born in the early years of the 15th century at Vallon. In 1421 she married Berenger de Surville, who was killed at the Siege of Orléans in 1428. Her husband's absence at the war inspired her heroic verses and his death her elegiac poems. The last of her poems is a \"chant royal\" addressed to Charles VIII.\n\nIn 1803 Charles Vanderbourg published as the \"Poésies de Clotilde\" some forty poems dealing with love and war. The history given in the introduction of the discovery of the manuscript was evidently a fable, and the poems were set down by most authorities as forgeries, especially as they contained many anachronisms and were written in accordance with modern laws of prosody. The manuscript had been in the possession of Jean François Marie, marquis de Surville, an \"Émigré\" who returned to France in 1798 to raise an insurrection in Provence, and had paid the penalty with his life.\n\nIn 1863 Antonin Mace made further inquiries on the subject and discovered letters from Vanderbourg to Surville's widow. This correspondence makes it clear that Vanderbourg was innocent of forgery and believed that the poems were of 15th century date, and that the anachronisms of matter and form were due to retouching by Surville. But the researches of Mace interested local antiquarians, and documentary evidence was produced that the wife of Berenger de Surville was Marguerite Chalis, not Clotilde, and that the marriage dated only from 1428. Moreover, Berenger, whose death at the siege of Orléans was one of the leading motives of the book, lived for twenty years after that date. Friends of M. de Surville also disclosed the fact that the marquis had contributed archaic poetry to a Lausanne journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924542", "title": "Richard Barrett (lawyer)", "text": "Richard Barrett (lawyer)\n\nRichard Barrett (1943 – April 22, 2010) was an American lawyer, white nationalist, and self-proclaimed leader in the nationalist \"Skinheadz\" movement. Barrett was a speaker and editor of the \"All The Way\" monthly newsletter. He was general counsel of the Nationalist Movement, which he founded in Mississippi.\n\nBarrett was born in New York City, and according to his biography, his family moved away to avoid the influx of Jewish and Puerto Rican immigrants. He graduated from Rutgers University, later returning his diploma to a then-Marxist professor, Eugene Genovese, following infantry service in the Vietnam War. He graduated from Memphis State University Law School in 1974.\n\nIn 1968, Barrett served as executive director of the South Carolina branch of the American Independent Party, on behalf of George C. Wallace's presidential bid. He organized and chaired Youth for Wallace and in 1969, he organized and chaired the National Youth Alliance (which later transformed into the National Alliance). In 1976, he was chairman of Democrats for Reagan and in 1977, he served as judge-advocate of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.\n\nIn 1982, Barrett published \"The Commission\", a memoir advocating the resettlement of \"those who were once citizens\" to \"Puerto Rico, Mexico, Israel, the Orient, and Africa.\" Contending that non-whites, especially blacks, were inferior: \"The Negro race... possess[es] no creativity of its own [and] pulls the vitality away from civilization.\" He advocated sterilization and abortions of the \"unfit\".\n\nIn 1989, Barrett visited England. He attended the Annual General Meeting of the National Front political party where he signed \"The New Atlantic Charter\" pledging solidarity between the party and the Nationalist Movement. There he linked up with Alan Harvey to support apartheid in South Africa. The following year, Barrett played host to Nick Griffin.\n\nIn 1992, Barrett argued the case of \"Forsyth County, Georgia v. The Nationalist Movement\" before the United States Supreme Court. In 2004, Barrett organized a booth at the Neshoba County Fair in Mississippi for the public to shake hands with Edgar Ray Killen and sign a petition of support. Killen, who did not appear at the aforementioned event, was later convicted of manslaughter for his role in the 1964 Ku Klux Klan-led murders of Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner. In an interview, Barrett predicted that the nation would rally around Killen. Barrett represented Tennessee activist James L. Hart in 2006, when Hart was removed from the ballot by the GOP on the grounds of not being a \"bona fide\" member of the party due to his promotion of eugenics. Barrett's efforts were not successful, and Hart was forced to run as a write-in candidate.\n\nOn Thursday April 22, 2010, a neighbor called 9-1-1 at around 8:00 AM and reported seeing smoke coming from inside Barrett's home. Firefighters arrived and found Barrett's corpse near the back door of the house, which was unlocked. He had been beaten and stabbed to death by a 23-year-old black male, Vincent Justin McGee. After stealing a wallet and a gun from the victim, McGee set fire to the corpse and was apprehended within hours. At trial, McGee claimed that Barrett had dropped his pants and asked McGee to perform a sexual act on him, sending McGee into a panic. An autopsy revealed that Barrett suffered multiple stab wounds to his neck area, blunt force trauma to the head, and fractured ribs. He had been stabbed a total of 35 times. McGee was on probation after having been released in February from the Mississippi State Penitentiary (Parchman) in Sunflower County. He had been serving a six-year sentence for assault and grand larceny and had been eligible for release in December 2010, but was released early due to overcrowding in the prison. He was staying at his mother's house three doors down from the Barrett residence at the time of the murder.\n\nAfter being apprehended, McGee provided the police with information which led to the arrests of three more suspects. Michael Dent, Vicky Dent, and Albert Lewis were each charged with accessory after the fact and arson. McGee pleaded guilty to manslaughter, arson, and burglary on July 28, 2011. He was sentenced to 20 years on the manslaughter charge, 20 years on the arson charge, and 25 years on the burglary charge - 65 years in total.\n\nJerry Mitchell, the famed investigative reporter noted for his coverage of Civil Rights-era murders and injustices that had long been disregarded, including the murder of Medgar Evers, covered Barrett's political activities at length. Though an ardent opponent of Barrett's political positions, Mitchell called Barrett a \"victim of hate\" and noted, \"No one deserves to be beaten and stabbed 35 times before being set on fire. No one deserves to die from the hands of hate, not even someone who has sown its seeds for a lifetime.\"\n\nBarrett's murder is the subject of the book \"God'll Cut You Down\" by John Safran.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924543", "title": "Dimple", "text": "Dimple\n\nA dimple (also known as a gelasin) is a small natural indentation in the flesh on a part of the human body, most notably in the cheek. Numerous cultures believe that cheek dimples are a good luck charm that entices people who think they are physically attractive, but they are also associated with heroism and innocence, which has been included in literature for many centuries.\n\nMedical research debates whether cheek dimples can be inherited or which type of allele they are, but it is certain that humans with cheek dimples are more likely to have them in both cheeks. Depth and length appearances are affected by the shape of the skull and dimples can appear and disappear due to age. There are four types of facial dimples, including cheek, and the cleft chin (sometimes nicknamed a \"chin dimple\").\n\nCheek dimples when present, show up when a person makes a facial expression, such as smiling, whereas a chin dimple is a small line on the chin that stays on the chin without making any specific facial expressions. Dimples may appear and disappear over an extended period; a baby born with dimples in their cheeks may lose them as they grow into a child due to their diminishing baby fat.\n\nDimples are usually located on mobile tissue, and are possibly caused by variations in the structure of the facial muscle known as zygomaticus major. Specifically, the presence of a double or bifid zygomaticus major muscle may explain the formation of cheek dimples. This bifid variation of the muscle originates as a single structure from the zygomatic bone. As it travels anteriorly, it then divides with a superior bundle that inserts in the typical position above the corner of the mouth. An inferior bundle inserts below the corner of the mouth.\n\nCheek dimples can occur in any person, but some studies have suggested that dimples (both cheek and chin) are more common in females. They can be either permanent, or transient (aging makes dimples appear/disappear due to facial development and muscle growth): a Greek study spanning almost 20 years concluded that 34% of Greek adults had dimples whereas 13% of Greek youths (between 7 and 15 years old) had dimples as well, which might suggest that transient dimples are more common than permanent. \n\nProfessor John McDonald, citing limited research, concluded that dimples have been mislabeled as genetically inherited and as a dominant trait. It is believed that cheek dimple genes occur on the 16th chromosome, whereas cleft chin genes occur on the 5th. However, the University of Utah considers dimples an \"irregular\" dominant trait that is probably controlled mostly by one gene but is influenced by other genes.\n\nHaving bilateral dimples (dimples in both cheeks) is the most common form of cheek dimples. In a 2018 study of 216 people aged 18–42 with both unilateral (one dimple) and bilateral, 120 (55.6%) had dimples in both of their cheeks. It was originally concluded that 60% of people with one dimple likely have it in their left cheek, but later research concluded that 53% were on the right, however, this may be due to differing cultures. Dimples are analogous and how they form in cheeks varies from person to person. Dimple depth and size can also vary; unilateral dimples are usually large, and a possible 12.8% of bilateral people have dimples positioned asymmetrically. They are not linked with a dimpled chin: a study from 2010 by the University of Ilorin examined 500 Yoruban Nigerians with both uni- and bilateral cheek dimples, discovering that only 36 (7.2%) had a cleft chin as well.\n\nThe shape of a person's face can affect the look and form as well: leptoprosopic (long and narrow) faces have long and narrow dimples, and euryprosopic (short and broad) faces have short, circular dimples. People with a mesoprosopic face are more likely to have dimples in their cheeks than any other face shape. Singaporean plastic surgeon Khoo Boo-Chai (1929–2012) determined that a cheek dimple occurs on the intersecting line between the corner of the mouth and the outer canthi of the eye, (nicknamed the \"KBC point\" in dimple surgery) but people with natural dimples do not always have their dimples on the KBC point. The other common type of facial dimple form near the mouth in three types: lower para-angle (underneath the mouth and lips), para-angle (\"around the mouth angle\"), and upper para-angle (above the mouth and lips).\n\nCheek dimples are often associated with youth and beauty and are seen as an attractive quality in a person's face, accentuating smiles and making the smile look more cheerful and memorable. Throughout numerous cultures and history, there have been superstitions based on dimples: Chinese culture believes that cheek dimples are a good luck charm (particularly, children born with them are seen as pleasant, polite and enthusiastic), but can lead to complicated romantic relationships; and a proverb (often incorrectly credited to Pope Paul VI) argues \"A dimple in your cheek/Many hearts you'll seek/A dimple in your chin/The devil within\". According to \"Candy Bites: The Science of Sweets\", the dent in Junior Mints is based on this belief, arguing that a unilateral dimple is more attractive than bilateral. Richard Steele wrote that a dimpled laugh \"is practised to give to the features, and is frequently made a bait to entangle a gazing lover; this was called by the ancients the Chian laugh.\" He added: \"The prude hath a wonderful esteem for the Chian laugh or dimple [...] and is never seen upon the most extravagant jests to disorder her countenance with the ruffle of a smile [but] very rarely takes the freedom to sink her cheek into a dimple\" implying that dimples are alluring due to demure women that have them.\n\n\"The Englishwoman's Magazine\" from 1866 featured an article named \"The Human Form Divine: Dimples and Wrinkles\", which associated cheek dimples with youth. On transient dimples, it wrote: \"But generally, dimples mark the departure of youth, and fade away at the approach of crow's feet\"; \"Did you ever see a pretty child's face without dimples in it? Dimples in the cheek—temping dimples—and a dimple in the chin that gave a roguish smartness to the face?\" British boxer-turned-Hollywood actor Reginald Denny had his cheek dimples gushed about in a \"Photoplay\" article, which Professor Michael Williams inferred that \"dimples might also provide a humanizing touch\" in the handsome Denny who had \"dimples in conjunction with the physique of a young Greek god[.]\"\n\nWomen without dimples are said to envy the women that have them because dimples are \"pitfalls for the men\" that \"[are] something purely natural and unattainable by art\". This has led to artificial attempts to create them: the Ohio-based Dolly Dimpler company advertized in \"Photoplay\" about a device that created dimples in customers' cheeks; in 1936, Isabella Gilbert invented the Dimple Maker, a face-fitting brace which pushed dents into the cheeks to emulate dimples, but it is unknown whether the artificial dimples could last this way (the American Medical Association argued that frequent users could develop cancer); and in the 21st century, people undergo dimple surgery.\n\nThe sentiments appear in fiction: authors have described dimples in their characters for centuries to show beauty, especially in women, which has been seen as part of their sex appeal. This is possibly why cheek dimples have been identified with female characters: Anne from \"Anne of Green Gables\" envied other female characters' dimples, whereas \"Wives and Daughters\" featured a paragraph about Molly wondering whether she was beautiful as she looked in her mirror, which was followed by: \"She would have been sure if, instead of inspecting herself with such solemnity, she had smiled her own sweet merry smile, and called out the gleam of her teeth, and the charm of her dimples.\" Scarlett O'Hara exploited her cheek dimples in \"Gone with the Wind\" when she was flirting to get her own way, to the point where Rhett is implied to be aware of what she is doing.\n\nShakespeare often acknowledged cheek dimples, usually on children, such as \"the pretty dimples of [the baby boy's] chin and cheek\" in \"The Winter's Tale\" or the \"pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids\" from \"Antony and Cleopatra\"; however, Adonis' in \"Venus and Adonis\" are mentioned from the point of view of the flirting Venus. There are theories that some of his famous female protagonists had them as well, such as Juliet Capulet, \"Jessica and Maria [and] Rosalind.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1924544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924544", "title": "Austintown Township, Mahoning County, Ohio", "text": "Austintown Township, Mahoning County, Ohio\n\nAustintown Township is one of the fourteen townships of Mahoning County, Ohio, United States. The 2010 census found 36,722 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the northern part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nNo municipalities are located in Austintown Township, although two census-designated places are located there: Austintown in the east (with 44% of the township's area and 81% of its population), and part of Mineral Ridge in the north.\nThe Meander Creek Reservoir occupies the western portion of the township. Ax Factory Run creek flows west to east through central portion of the township with Woodside Lake forming a section of the creek.\n\nInterstates 80 and 680 and State Route 11 are major traffic systems crossing Austintown. One exit on I-80 and one exit on State Route 11 serve the township.\n\nIt is the only Austintown Township statewide.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924545", "title": "Johann Froben", "text": "Johann Froben\n\nJohann Froben, in Latin: Johannes Frobenius (and combinations), (c. 1460 – 27 October 1527) was a famous printer, publisher and learned Renaissance humanist in Basel. He was a close friend of Erasmus and cooperated closely with Hans Holbein the Younger. He made Basel one of the world's leading centres of the book trade. He passed his printing business on to his son, Hieronymus, and grandson, Ambrosius Frobenius.\n\nFroben was born in Hammelburg, Franconia. After completing his university career at Basel, where he made the acquaintance of the famous printer Johann Amerbach (c. 1440 — 1513), Froben established a printing house in that city about 1491, and this soon attained a European reputation for accuracy and taste. In 1500, he married the daughter of the bookseller Wolfgang Lachner, who entered into a partnership with him.\n\nFroben was friends with Erasmus, who lived in his house when in Basel, and not only had his own works printed by him from 1514, but superintended Froben's editions of Jerome, Cyprian, Tertullian, Hilary of Poitiers and Ambrose. His printing of Erasmus' \"Novum Testamentum\" (1516) was used by Martin Luther for his translation.\n\nFroben employed Hans Holbein the Younger to illustrate his texts as\nIt was part of Froben's plan to print editions of the Greek Fathers. He also employed the formschneiders Jakob Faber (the \"Master IF\") and Hans Lützelburger. Holbein painted a portrait of Froben (c. 1522–1523), probably as a pair with one of Erasmus; the original has not survived but a number of copies have.\n\nDying in October 1527, Froben did not, however, live to carry out this work, but it was very creditably executed by his son Hieronymus Froben and his son-in-law Nikolaus Episcopius. Froben died in October 1527 in Basel. His Hebrew – Greek – Latin tombstone is located in the Basel Peterskirche which has been used as a reformed church since 1529. Froben is, through his descendant Anna Catharina Bischoff a direct ancestor of the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson\n\nFroben's work in Basel made that city in the 16th century the leading center of the Swiss book trade. An existing letter of Erasmus, written in the year of Froben's death, gives an idea of his life and an estimate of his character; and in it Erasmus mentions that his grief for the death of his friend was far more distressing than that which he had felt for the loss of his own brother, adding that \"all the apostles of science ought to wear mourning\". The epistle concludes with an epitaph in Greek and Latin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924548", "title": "Patrice Chéreau", "text": "Patrice Chéreau\n\nPatrice Chéreau (; 2 November 1944 – 7 October 2013) was a French opera and theatre director, filmmaker, actor and producer. In France he is best known for his work for the theatre, internationally for his films \"La Reine Margot\" and \"Intimacy\", and for his staging of the \"Jahrhundertring\", the centenary \"Ring Cycle\" at the Bayreuth Festival in 1976. Winner of almost twenty movie awards, including the Cannes Jury Prize and the Golden Berlin Bear, Chéreau served as president of the jury at the 2003 Cannes festival.\n\nFrom 1966, he was artistic director of the \"Public-Theatre\" in the Parisian suburb of Sartrouville, where in his team were stage designer Richard Peduzzi, costume designer Jacques Schmidt and lighting designer André Diot, with whom he collaborated in many later productions. From 1982, he was director of \"his own stage\" at the Théâtre Nanterre-Amandiers at Nanterre where he staged plays by Jean Racine, Marivaux and Shakespeare as well as works by Jean Genet, Heiner Müller and Bernard-Marie Koltès.\n\nHe accepted selected opera productions, such as: the first performance of the three-act version of Alban Berg's \"Lulu\", completed by Friedrich Cerha, at the Paris Opera in 1979; Berg's \"Wozzeck\" at the Staatsoper Berlin in 1994; Wagner's \"Tristan und Isolde\" at La Scala in 2007; Janáček's \"From the House of the Dead\", shown at several festivals and the Metropolitan Opera; and, as his last staging, \"Elektra\" by Richard Strauss, first performed at the Aix-en-Provence Festival in July 2013. He was awarded the Europe Theatre Prize in 2008.\n\nChéreau was born in Lézigné, Maine-et-Loire. His father, Jean-Baptiste Chéreau, was a painter, and his mother, Marguerite Pelicier, was a graphic designer. He attended school in Paris. Early on he was taken to the Louvre and became interested in the arts, cinema, theatre and music. At age 12, he designed stage sets for plays. He became well known to Parisian critics as director, actor, and stage manager of his high-school theatre (lycée Louis-le-Grand). At 15, he was enthusiastically celebrated as a theatre prodigy. In 1964, at the age of 19, he began directing for the professional theatre. While studying at the Sorbonne, he professionally staged Victor Hugo's \"L'Intervention\", and subsequently dropped out of the university.\n\nIn 1966, Chéreau was appointed artistic director of the \"Public-Theatre\" in the Parisian suburb of Sartrouville.\nWith \"idealism and inventiveness\", he made the theatre a \"municipal commodity\", presenting not only theatre but also \"cinema, concerts, poetry productions, lectures and debates about everything from politics to pot\". His theatrical team included costume designer Jacques Schmidt, stage designer Richard Peduzzi and lighting designer André Diot, with all of whom he collaborated in many later productions.\n\nIn 1968, he directed \"The Soldiers\" by Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz at the \"Festival of Youth Theatre\" in Nancy. In 1969, he staged his first opera production, Rossini's \"L'italiana in Algeri\" for the Spoleto Festival, again with his Sartrouville team. The following year he established a close artistic relationship with the leadership of the Piccolo Teatro in Milan, Paolo Grassi and Giorgio Strehler. There, he staged Pablo Neruda's \"revolutionary oratorio\" \"The Splendour and Death of Joaquin Murieta\". In 1970, he directed Shakespeare's \"Richard II\" at the \"Théâtre de France\". His first staging for the Paris Opera was in 1974 Offenbach's \"Les contes d'Hoffmann\". He showed Hoffmann, sung by Nicolai Gedda, as a \"sensitive poet for whom love is beyond reach, ... a drunken loser\". In 1975, he worked in Germany for the first time directing Edward Bond's \"Lear\", set in an \"industrial landscape strewn with piles of slag, with Lear as a Baron Krupp in evening dress and top hat\". He commented on the \"macabre\" production: \"Just as some people feed on hope, I feed on despair. For me it is a spur to action.\" Also in 1975, his directorial debut film was the thriller \"La Chair de l'orchidée\", based on James Hadley Chase's 1948 novel \"The Flesh of the Orchid\", sequel to \"No Orchids for Miss Blandish\" (1939). The film assembled a starry cast including Edwige Feuillère, Simone Signoret, Alida Valli and Charlotte Rampling \"in the [Miss Blandish] role giving a performance of extraordinary intensity. It was an almost operatic version of the misunderstood 1948 British film.\"\n\nIn 1976, Chéreau staged Wagner's \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" at the Bayreuth Festival to celebrate the festival's centenary, termed the \"Jahrhundertring\". The production, celebrating 100 years after Wagner's work had been performed for the first time as a cycle at the first Bayreuth Festival, became known as the \"Jahrhundertring\" (Centenary Ring). Chéreau collaborated with conductor Pierre Boulez, who had recommended him to the festival direction. The French team revolutionised the understanding of Wagner in Germany, as music critic Eleonore Büning wrote in her obituary in the \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\". Chéreau set the scene in the time of the composition, with a critical view of the time's capitalism, industrialism and spiritual background. As Büning and others pointed out, the staging left a standard for productions of the \"Ring Cycle\" to follow. Gerhard R. Koch mentioned in his obituary that the unity of direction, scene and light was new for Bayreuth and suggested a critical view on capitalism heading towards fascism.\n\nIn 1977, when heldentenor René Kollo had broken his leg, Chereau acted the role of Siegfried on stage while Kollo sang from the wings.\n\nThe Ring production, filmed for television in 1980, initially provoked controversy, but was celebrated after its final performance in 1980 with a 45-minute standing ovation. Chéreau disliked grand opera, but said: \"After Bayreuth, I felt the need to work on a theatrical project of some breadth ... I have never put on little things. I am interested only in spectacles that rise above themselves\". He first considered Goethe's \"Faust\" but then directed in 1981 Henrik Ibsen's \"Peer Gynt\" for Villeurbane and Paris, aiming at \"an incandescence of theatrical experience, a global spectacle\".\n\nChéreau directed the first performance of the three-act version of Alban Berg's \"Lulu\", completed by Friedrich Cerha, at the Paris Opera on 24 February 1979, again conducted by Boulez and with sets by Peduzzi, with Teresa Stratas singing the title role. The scene is set in the time of the composition, around 1930. Koch observes frequent topics of hunt, and love colder than death (Verfolger und Verfolgte, und Liebe ... kälter als der Tod). Dr. Schön, a powerful newspaper manager, is reminiscent of supporters of Hitler.\n\nFrom 1982, Chéreau was director of \"his own stage\" at the Théâtre Nanterre-Amandiers at Nanterre. In 1981 already he staged there Ibsen's \"Peer Gynt\". He was the first to show several plays by Bernard-Marie Koltès, including ' and ' (1985), ' (1986) and ' (1988). He directed Marivaux' \"La Fausse suivante\" in 1985 and Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" in 1989, also works by Jean Genet, Heiner Müller and Jean Racine. He staged Mozart's \"Lucio Silla\" in 1984, for Amandiers, but also for La Monnaie and La Scala.\n\nAt the Odéon he staged in 1992 \"Le Temps et la Chambre\" by Botho Strauss. He directed \"Dans la solitude des champs de coton\" again in 1995, shown at Ivry, the Wiener Festwochen and the Brooklyn Academy of Music. He staged in 2011 Jon Fosse's \"Je suis le vent\" in an English version, \"I Am the Wind\", by Simon Stephens at the Young Vic Theatre, with Tom Brooke and Jack Laskey.\n\nIn 1983, Chéreau directed the film \"The Wounded Man (L'Homme Blessé\"), a more personal project for him. He and his co-writer, Hervé Guibert, worked for six years on the scenario, which tells of a love affair between an older man involved in prostitution and a teenage boy, a dark view in the context of HIV/AIDS. His 1994 film was \"La Reine Margot\", based on the 1845 historical novel of the same name by Alexandre Dumas. It won the Jury Prize and Best Actress Award (Virna Lisi) at Cannes, as well as five César Awards. Set in the 16th-century, depicting the conflict between Catholics and Protestants in France, it shows battles and the St Bartholomew's day massacre. A scene of the queen with the head of her lover is reminiscent of the opera \"Salome\", uniting cult and obsession (\"Einheit von Kult und Obsession\"), as Koch remarks. The film was Chéreau's longest, most expensive production, and his greatest financial success. \"[I]t was erotic and violent, and offers poured in from Hollywood,\" but, he said, \"I was always being offered films based in the Renaissance and involving a massacre. I even had an offer from the UK to do a film about Guy Fawkes.\" He refused similar offers: \"It's useless to repeat something you already did.\" In 1993, in a rare acting role, he appeared as General Montcalm in Michael Mann's \"The Last of the Mohicans\".\n\nChéreau's staging of Berg's \"Wozzeck\" was shown from 1993 to 1999 at the Théâtre du Châtelet and the Staatsoper Berlin, conducted by Daniel Barenboim, with Franz Grundheber in the title role and Waltraud Meier as Marie. It was filmed in 1994. A review notes the \"presentation of even the smallest roles as deeply-considered characters\". His staging of Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\" was shown from 1994 to 1996 at the Salzburg Festival.\nIn 1998, he directed the film \"Those Who Love Me Can Take the Train\", a \"melodramatic, sentimental and emptily wordy ... about the interplay of assorted characters on their way to the funeral of a misanthropic, bisexual minor painter (Jean-Louis Trintignant).\" The final scene reflects the cemetery of Limoges to the music of Mahler's Tenth Symphony.\n\nChéreau's only English-language film, \"Intimacy\" (2001), was based on short stories by Hanif Kureishi (who also wrote the eponymous novel in 1998). The cast includes Kerry Fox, Mark Rylance, Timothy Spall and Marianne Faithfull. The film deals with \"the possessiveness of a musician from London who regularly meets a woman for sexual encounters\". It \"was a tale of sexual obsession which sparked a debate about unsimulated sex on screen. But, Chéreau said, 'It is not like a porno film, not at all erotic sometimes, but it is beautiful because it is life.\"\n\nIn 2003, he directed \"His Brother\" (\"Son frère\"), centred \"on the relationship between two estranged brothers, one gay, the other straight. They come together when the latter suffers from a potentially fatal blood disease. The hospital processes are shot unflinchingly, without sentimentality, which makes this meditation on mortality even more moving.\" Koch notes the similarity of a scene when the moribund is shaved for a last futile surgery he lies on a table similar to Mantegna's \"Dead Christ\". In 2003 Chéreau served at Cannes as president of the jury.\n\nHis staging of Mozart's \"Così fan tutte\" was shown in 2005 and 2006 in Aix-en-Provence, the Opéra National de Paris and the Wiener Festwochen. In 2007, he staged Wagner's \"Tristan und Isolde\" at La Scala, conducted by Daniel Barenboim. He had stayed away from the opera because he regarded it as \"predominantly a musical rather than a theatrical work\", but his \"sombre, subtle direction – with Waltraud Meier an acutely vulnerable Isolde – was intensely moving\".\n\nHe directed Leoš Janáček's \"From the House of the Dead\", again conducted by Boulez, first shown at the Vienna Festival in 2007, and later at the Holland Festival, the Aix-en-Provence Festival, the Metropolitan Opera (his debut there in 2009) and La Scala. Chéreau's last film was \"Persécution\" (2009), \"a gloomy, episodic film\" about a man who is \"haunted by a love-hate relationship with his girlfriend\". His last production was \"Elektra\" by Richard Strauss, conducted by Esa-Pekka Salonen, shown at the Aix-en-Provence Festival in July 2013 and scheduled for the MET's 2015–16 season. A review noted: \"The clichés of Fascist brutality and expressionist exaggeration are astutely avoided: this is a situation that involves human beings, not caricatures, in a visually neutral environment of bare walls, windows and doors (designed by Richard Peduzzi) which is also blackly portentous in atmosphere.\"\n\nChéreau was in a long-term relationship with his lover and favorite actor Pascal Greggory. He was not interested in gay topics, saying: \"I never wanted to specialise in gay stories, and gay newspapers have criticised me for that. Everywhere love stories are exactly the same. The game of desire, and how you live with desire, are the same.\" Chéreau died in Paris on 7 October 2013 from lung cancer. He was 68 years old.\n\nChéreau was awarded the Europe Theatre Prize in 2008, in the Edition XII of the prize. The \"Reason for award\" noted: A natural-born artist with a clear calling, Patrice Chéreau is one of those rare examples of a person who manages to succeed in all the expressive arts. ... Patrice Chéreau is an actor himself with the indispensable support of a team of creative collaborators, including the great set designer Richard Peduzzi, costume designer Jacques Schmidt and lighting designer André Diot. Drawn through his analysis of Brecht towards a correct naturalism, Chéreau has discovered and revived a number of little known texts, not least thanks to the many languages he has mastered. His extraordinary critical interpretation of Marivaux broke through the playwright’s sunny surface to reveal him as a forward-looking, harsh social critic. ...\n\nMeanwhile, Chéreau shifted from theatre to opera, ... a scandalous reinterpretation of Wagner’s Ring at Bayreuth ... He reached the height of his career during his many years at the Théâtre des Amandiers in Nanterre, where he developed a new model of expression, discovered and launched one of the great dramatists of our time, Bernard Marie Koltès, whose major works he directed, including Combat de nègre et de chiens and Solitude des champs de coton, as well as Shakespeare, Peer Gynt, Heiner Müller, and the historic revival of Les paravents by Genet. Chéreau eventually turned to cinema, which he found more expressive of the truth of life that he so values.\n\n\n\nMain sources:\n\n"}
{"id": "1924551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924551", "title": "Ippolito Rosellini", "text": "Ippolito Rosellini\n\nNiccola Francesco Ippolito Baldassarre Rosellini, known simply as Ippolito Rosellini (13 August 1800 – 4 June 1843) was an Italian Egyptologist. A scholar and friend of Jean-François Champollion, he is regarded as the founder of Egyptology in Italy.\n\nHe was born in Pisa, eldest son of a family originally from Pescia. After studying Hebrew and graduating in theology at the University of Pisa in 1821, Rosellini studied oriental languages under Giuseppe Mezzofanti at Bologna until 1824, when he became professor of the same subject at the University of Pisa.<br>\nHe was the first disciple, a great friend and an associate of Jean-François Champollion. They met in Florence in August 1825, during Champollion's journey to study the important Egyptological collections in Turin, Rome and Florence. In 1827, he went to Paris for a year in order to improve his knowledge of the method of decipherment proposed by Champollion. Here, he met and then married Zenobia, daughter of the Italian composer Luigi Cherubini. A year later, Rosellini accompanied Champollion in the latter's Egyptian exploration also known as the Franco-Tuscan expedition, as the leader of the Tuscan group (1828-29). The expedition was financed by the Grand-duke of Tuscany, Leopold II, and King Charles X of France.\nChampollion's sudden death in 1832 left to the saddened Rosellini the whole responsibility of publishing the report of the expedition: between 1832 and 1843 he exposed the results in his most famous work, \"I Monumenti dell'Egitto e della Nubia\", composed of three parts and nine volumes for a total of 3,300 text pages and 395 illustrated plates.\n\nSince 1836, Rosellini's health started to decline possibly due to malaria, which ultimately led to his death on 4 June 1843 in Pisa. All his papers were donated to the library of the University of Pisa, while the last volume of the \"Monumenti\" was published posthumously in 1844. Three years after his death, his widow married his brother Ferdinando Pio, a mathematician, who adopted their three sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924553", "title": "Boardman, Ohio", "text": "Boardman, Ohio\n\nBoardman is a census-designated place (CDP) in Boardman Township, Mahoning County, Ohio, United States, a suburb immediately south of Youngstown. Boardman is one of two major retail hubs in the Mahoning Valley. The population of the CDP was 35,376 at the 2010 census.\n\nBoardman was founded by Elijah Boardman in the late 1780s. Though the CDP of Boardman consists of suburban spillover from Youngstown, Boardman was traditionally an agricultural community with grain crops and apple orchards. Around the turn of the century, the railroad led to Southern Park, a horse racing facility on Washington Boulevard, making the area an early draw for Youngstown urbanites.\n\nBecause of its proximity to Youngstown, Boardman was ripe for strip development starting as early as 1950.\n\nBoardman is located at (41.038958, −80.665395). According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of , of which is land and , or 1.12%, is water.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 37,215 people, 15,955 households, and 10,211 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 2,335.8 people per square mile (902.0/km²). There were 16,801 housing units at an average density of 1,054.5/sq mi (407.2/km²). The racial makeup of the CDP was 95.25% White, 2.56% African American, 0.09% Native American, 0.81% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.42% from other races, and 0.85% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.80% of the population.\n\nThere were 15,955 households out of which 25.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.6% were married couples living together, 9.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 36.0% were non-families. 32.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.30 and the average family size was 2.94.\n\nIn the CDP the population was spread out with 20.7% under the age of 18, 7.9% from 18 to 24, 26.3% from 25 to 44, 24.8% from 45 to 64, and 20.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42 years. For every 100 females there were 88.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 84.9 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the CDP was $40,935, and the median income for a family was $52,709. Males had a median income of $39,826 versus $25,575 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $22,757. About 3.6% of families and 5.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 6.6% of those under the age of 18 and 5.2% of those 65 and older.\n\nEdward DeBartolo, Sr., a shopping mall developer, began his company in Boardman. Boardman Plaza on U.S. Route 224 (west of Market Street) was one of the first strip malls in the country. Established in 1950 by DeBartolo, the plaza had three full-service grocery stores within a few hundred feet of each other. Today one must travel at least to get the same food service. Later, circa 1970, DeBartolo opened the more contemporary Southern Park Mall, near the intersection of US 224 and Market Street.\n\nThe fast food chain Arby's opened its first location in Boardman in 1964. The original Arby's store—with the distinctive round roof architecture—remains open as a bird seed store, with a new Arby's right across the street on Route 224 near the Southern Park Mall, owned and operated by the now internationally-known chain.\n\nAlso around 1950, the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company, one of the great steel makers in the country, opened a modern new suburban headquarters in Boardman (right across Market Street from the DeBartolo Corporation). Here, a whole new \"suburban\" work environment was started; with a white shirt dress code, it was antiseptic and wholly removed from the dirt and grit of the Mahoning Valley farther north.\n\nWhen the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company closed in 1977, a large campus was left for others to develop. Today, the former headquarters is the center of many medical offices, a Dunkin Donuts and a branch of Youngstown State University.\n\nBoardman is a large, sprawling suburb. It is a busy community south of Youngstown composed of many chain restaurants. It is one of the main shopping and retail centers for the greater Youngstown area. Its main competitor is the northern 422 \"Strip\" in Niles, Ohio (a similar suburb of Warren, Ohio).\n\nWhile much development is centered on the 224 corridor, a new area of development (even further south) is surging along the South Avenue artery which parallels the southern extension of Interstate 680 between its Midlothian and Western Reserve Road exits.\n\nBoardman abuts one of the Youngstown area's most popular attractions, Mill Creek Park. Within the park grounds, there is an rose garden, several small waterfalls, a lily pond with geese and turtles, marshlands, and Lanterman's Mill, where grain is ground daily. In addition, there is a 36-hole golf course.\n\nPublic education is provided by the Boardman Local School District. Boardman High School is the only public high school in Boardman. The first high school, located on Market Street, became the Boardman Center Middle School (grades 5–8) in 1969, when the new high school was built on Glenwood Avenue. Boardman Center Middle School changed again to Boardman Center Intermediate School (grades 5-6). The district operates seven schools: Boardman High School, Glenwood Junior High School, Center Intermediate School, and Market Street, Robinwood Lane, Stadium Drive, and West Boulevard Elementary Schools.\n\nBoardman has a public library, a branch of the Public Library of Youngstown and Mahoning County.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924557", "title": "List of school districts in Orange County, California", "text": "List of school districts in Orange County, California\n\nList of public school districts in Orange County, California\n\n\"Community College Districts:\"\n\n\"Unified School Districts:\"\n\n\"Union High School Districts:\"\n\n\"Elementary School Districts:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924561", "title": "Pin Drop Violence", "text": "Pin Drop Violence\n\nPin Drop Violence was a metal band formed in November 2000 in Mumbai, India.\n\nPDV started out with Pereira-Man and vocalist Pradeep, along with Mithun and Michael on guitars. Later, Niraj joined in as the drummer. They had their first gig opening for the veteran band Naked Earth at Razzberry Rhinoceres (Mumbai). After couple of shows Michael quit due to personal reasons, and has been replaced by Vispy, ex-guitarist of Sceptre. \n\nAfter several line-up changes, Pin Drop Violence now consists of Pradeep Miranda on vocals, Vispy \"V.A.S.P.\" Homavazir on guitars, Mithun \"GriDKiD\" Poojari on guitars, Rohit \"P-Man\" on bass and Viru \"Virus\" on drums.\n\nPDV released their debut album \"Compose…Oppose…Dispose\" in 2004, which was produced by Randolph (Pentagram), released on OML records and distributed by Sony Music India.\n\nCompose…Oppose…Dispose track list:\n\nTotal playing time 41:03\n\nTheir second album, called ‘Right II Riot’ (read: Right To Riot) was released on June 16, 2007. The mastering of the album has been done in the Mastering Room, Sweden, where albums of bands such as In Flames, The Haunted, and Soilwork have been mastered. The album was released on OML's Counter Culture records.\n\nRight II Riot track list:\n\n\n\"No Regrets\" also features as a bonus track on the Demonstealer Records' compilation 'Fine Tuned Disasters'.\n\nCurrent\n\nFormer\n\n"}
{"id": "1924567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924567", "title": "Makuya", "text": "Makuya\n\n, based at the Tokyo Bible Seminary, is a religious movement in Japan founded in 1948 by Ikurō Teshima. To grasp the inner truth of biblical religion, or the \"Love of the Holy Spirit\" as Teshima puts it, and to extol this existential love by embodying it and living accordingly is the essence of the Makuyas' religious life.\n\n\"Makuya\" is the Japanese equivalent for the Hebrew word משכן \"mishkan\", which refers to the Holy Tabernacle, the portable shrine where God and man encounter (Exodus 29:42–43). This name aptly captures the basic religious orientation of the Makuyas, who emphasize the significance of the personal, ineffable encounter with the divine presence in everyday life. This experience, according to them, must not, and indeed cannot, be substituted by a dogmatic belief in creeds or a stabilization of a religious institution; hence, the idea of the \"portable\" shrine, the Holy Tabernacle.\n\nThe Makuyas stress \"a return to the dynamic faith of the original Gospel of early Hebraic Christianity, as opposed to the dogmatic, institutionalized, European-dominated churches.\" In their view, when Biblical religion was introduced to the Hellenistic world, its lively spirit was interpreted within Greek logic and eventually replaced by a set of theological creeds. The Makuyas, thus, seek to restore this original spirit by returning to its Hebrew roots, and learning the Bible accordingly.\n\nThe Makuyas are concerned not only about individual salvation but also the spiritual restoration, or enhancement, of each nation and social group. For example, they regard the contemporary value system of Japanese society as existentially deteriorated, overtly self-centered, with little consideration of fundamental moral virtues, traditional heritage, or common and public good of the society as a whole. Unlike nearly all other Christians in Japan, the Makuyas, rather, respect their cultural heritage and seek to inspire, or \"re-awaken\" as they put it, the \"existential spirit of the Japanese people.\" In this respect, many Japanese Shintoists and Buddhists who share the same concern support Makuya's cause. Further, the Makuyas do not seek to proselytize to such believers of other religions, nor urge them to become Makuya members, for the Makuyas believe in religious pluralism, tolerance, and coexistence. In this sense, Makuya is best viewed, as they themselves see it, not as a \"sect\" but as a \"movement,\" not as an \"exclusive\" but an \"inclusive\" group.\n\nUnlike other Christians, which use the cross as their symbol, the Makuyas take the seven-armed Jewish menorah as their religious emblem, and display it on their badge or pendant. They prefer the menorah to the cross, viewing the latter as a symbol of \"suffering\" while the former, of \"hope.\" The Makuyas have developed, or incorporated, a number of religious observances, customs and rituals. They also engage in convocations, marriage ceremonies, and pilgrimages.\n\nToday, the Makuya movement has about a hundred branches all over the world, including Japan, Israel, the United States, Canada, Denmark, France, the United Kingdom, Spain, Mexico, Brazil, Paraguay, China, Taiwan, South Korea, India and Indonesia. Following, in part, the biblical tradition (2 Samuel 24), the movement does not conduct any census; hence, the exact number of its members remains unknown. It is known, however, that about 300,000 copies of its major magazine, \"The Light of Life\", are being subscribed to and issued every month.\n\nFor those who live in Japan, more concretely, Teshima outlined a small number of tenets called \"Our Beliefs\" intended to define the core beliefs of the Makuya:\n\"Christ said, \"Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.\"　(Matthew 11:28)\"\n\nMakuya is a group of fervent lovers of Israel and Jewish people. It sends young members to a number of kibbutzim in Israel, and makes pilgrimages to Jerusalem. \"Over [900] Makuya students have been sent to Israeli kibbutzim to work together with the people of the Bible, and to study Hebrew and the biblical background. Some of them continue their academic studies in universities.\" The primary kibbutz the Makuya students stay at is Heftziba. Makuya has also appeared in front of the United Nations on at least two occasions, speaking on behalf of Israel.\n\nIn 1967, when the Six-Day War broke out, Teshima wrote a telegram to the Makuya students in Israel: \"Stay as long as you can and help Israel.\" The students, accordingly, volunteered to aid Israel during the war. In 1973, when the Yom Kippur War broke out, the State of Japan supported Arab countries, caving in to an Arab oil embargo. This diplomatic policy frustrated Teshima. Despite his serious illness (terminal cirrhosis), Teshima, then, organized, with 3,000 of his adherents, a campaign for Israel in front of the National Diet Building in Tokyo. It was the first pro-Israel demonstration ever held in Japan. The campaign received wide coverage in the press, radio, and television. However, it also worsened Teshima's illness and he died three weeks later on Christmas Day 1973.\nTeshima's name was inscribed twice on the Golden Book of the Jewish National Fund; once in September, 1967 in honor of his staunch support for Israel during the Six-Day War and once in January, 1974 honoring his passing. His unconditional love, devotion, and support for Israel that stemmed from his biblical faith is, to this day, carried on by the members of the Makuya movement.\n\nThe Jewish National Fund had planted a forest in memory of Teshima, located in the Lower Galilee. It was named \"Makuya Forest\".\n\nTeshima was influenced by the writings of Uchimura Kanzō, studying under his disciple Tsukamoto Toraji and joining the Non-church movement. Other religious figures that made a great impact upon Teshima's belief and religiosity include Toyohiko Kagawa, Sadhu Sundar Singh, and Martin Buber.\n\nIn 1947, Teshima was accused of obstructing a municipal plan to destroy a local school in Kumamoto, Kumamoto Prefecture, and a warrant was issued for his arrest. Teshima fled to Mount Aso in central Kyushu where he stayed in an inn for several weeks, where he claims to have had a face-to-face encounter with God. Teshima returned home and discovered the warrant had been retracted. His experience at Mt. Aso compelled him to begin a life of ministry. He set up a Bible study group which quickly grew into a movement known as \"Genshi Fukuin Undo\" (lit., Original Gospel Movement), and then as Makuya. The sympathizers of this movement include such religious thinkers and scholars as Otto A. Piper, Martin Buber, Abraham Joshua Heschel, Zalman Shazar, Hugo Bergmann, Zvi Yehuda Kook, André Chouraqui, and Yisrael Meir Lau.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924568", "title": "Irish Champion Stakes", "text": "Irish Champion Stakes\n\nThe Irish Champion Stakes (Irish: Curadh-Dhuais na hÉireann) is a Group 1 flat horse race in Ireland open to horses aged three years or older. It is run at Leopardstown over a distance of 1 mile and 2 furlongs (2,012 metres), and it is scheduled to take place each year in September.\n\nThe event was established in 1976, and it was initially held at Leopardstown as the Joe McGrath Memorial Stakes. It was named in memory of Joe McGrath (1887–1966), the founder of the Irish Hospitals' Sweepstake and a successful racehorse owner.\n\nThe race was transferred to Phoenix Park and renamed the Phoenix Champion Stakes in 1984. Its present title was introduced in 1991, when the event returned to Leopardstown after the closure of its former venue.\n\nThe Irish Champion Stakes became part of the Breeders' Cup Challenge series in 2009. The winner now earns an automatic invitation to compete in the same year's Breeders' Cup Turf.\n\nThe Irish Champion Stakes has become a very useful prep race for the remaining major races in the Autumn schedule such as the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe, Champion Stakes, Breeders Cup, Hong Kong International Festival and major Group 1 races in Japan. The 2016 edition of the race was possibly one of its strongest editions with eight out of 12 participants winning 17 career Group 1's between them prior to the race. The form of the race would later see four of the participants win further Group 1 honours by the end of the 2016 season, producing a first & second in that year's Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe, first and second in the Champion Stakes, the winner of the Queen Elizabeth II Stakes, and first and second in the Breeders' Cup Turf. \n\nWinners of the Irish Champion Stakes have gone on to win the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe in the same season on five occasions: Carroll House (1989), Suave Dancer (1991), Dylan Thomas (2007), Sea The Stars (2009) and Golden Horn (2015), and a sixth Arc win was achieved when 2016 Irish Champion Stakes runner-up, Found, won the 2016 edition of the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe. \n\nWinners of the Irish Champion Stakes have gone on to win the Champion Stakes in the same season on six occasions: Triptych (1987), Indian Skimmer (1988), Pilsudski (1997), New Approach (2008), Almanzor (2016) and Magical (2019). The race has produced two further winners of the Champion Stakes with the 1986 third, Triptych, and the 2010 third, Twice Over, subsequently winning the British race that season.\n\nParticipants in the Irish Champion Stakes have gone on to win several Breeders' Cup titles in the same season. This includes five winners of the Breeders' Cup Turf, with Irish Champion Stakes winners such as Daylami (1999), Fantastic Light (2001), High Chaparral (2003) achieving a season double, while 2015 Irish Champion Stakes runner-up, Found, and a 2016 participant, Highland Reel, found success in the respective season's edition. In 2006, third placed Ouija Board went on to win that season's edition of the Breeders Cup' Filly & Mares Turf.\n\nSuccess has been also achieved in Japan where the Irish Champion Stakes winners, Stanerra (1983) and Pilsudski (1997) won the Japan Cup in the same season. Meanwhile, 2011 runner-up, Snow Fairy, gained compensation by winning that year's Queen Elizabeth II Commemorative Cup\n\nMost successful horse (2 wins):\n\nLeading jockey (7 wins):\n\nLeading trainer (7 wins):\n\nLeading owner (7 wins): \n\n"}
{"id": "1924569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924569", "title": "Calakmul Municipality", "text": "Calakmul Municipality\n\nCalakmul is a municipality in the Mexican state of Campeche, situated in the central part of the Yucatán Peninsula.\n\nThe municipality was created on 31 December 1996, from part of the territory of Champotón. On 19 June 1998, the State Congress enacted legislation creating the new municipality of Candelaria as of 1 July of that year, and Calakmul lost 24% of its population and a portion of its territory.\n\nThe municipality of Calakmul borders to the east with Quintana Roo (municipalities of José María Morelos, Bacalar, and Othón P. Blanco) and Belize (Orange Walk District); to the south with Guatemala (Petén Department); and to the north and west with other municipalities in Campeche (Candelaria, Champotón, Escárcega and Hopelchén). It covers 13,839.11 km² (5,343.31 sq mi), accounting for 24.34% of the state's total surface area, and is the 10th-largest municipality in area in the country.\n\nThe 2010 census reported a population of 26,882 persons. The languages spoken in Calakmul include Yucatec Maya, Ch'ol, Chontal, Tzotzil, and others. The municipal seat is the town of Xpujil, a small settlement of 3,984 inhabitants located on Federal Highway 186 as it crosses the base of the peninsula from Escárcega, Campeche, to Chetumal, Quintana Roo.\n\nThe largest localities (cities, towns, and villages) are:\nMaya archaeological sites in the municipality include: Calakmul, Becán, Chicanna, El Hormiguero, Río Bec and Xpuhil. The Calakmul Biosphere Reserve also covers much of its southern portion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924570", "title": "Missouri Route 96", "text": "Missouri Route 96\n\nRoute 96 is a state highway that travels from Route 171 near Carl Junction, in Jasper County, to Interstate 44 (I-44) in Halltown, in Lawrence County. A large section of the highway between Carthage and Halltown served as part of U.S. Route 66 (US 66) and is currently marked as Historic Route 66.\n\nThe road was numbered due to its being an extension of K-96 and its eastern terminus was in Carthage. When US 66 was deleted east of Joplin, Route 96 was extended to replace US 66.\n\nRoute 96 was redesignated as Route YY west of Route 171 when Kansas deleted the eastern part of K-96.\n\nRoute 96 begins at a partial interchange with Interstate 44 (I-44) just west of Halltown (there is no access to westbound I-44 or from eastbound I-44). The highway is a two-lane road and is relatively straight all the way to Carthage. Approximately west of I-44 is the western terminus of Route 266. Approximately further west, Route 96 is joined by Historic Route 66.\n\nAt Albatross, is an intersection with Route 39. Approximately further west is an intersection with Route 97. At Avilla, there is a concurrency with Route 37. As the road approaches Carthage, the highway curves south, then curves west again to become Central Street. At Garrison Avenue, the highway begins a concurrency with Route 571 and the road becomes a wide boulevard.\n\nOriginally, Route 96 continued across Route 171 and turned south, curving around the west side of Carl Junction. The road then traveled further west and crossed the Kansas state line.\n"}
{"id": "1924572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924572", "title": "Mud Bruneteau", "text": "Mud Bruneteau\n\nModere Fernand \"Mud\" Bruneteau (November 28, 1914 – April 15, 1982) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played for the Detroit Red Wings in the National Hockey League. He played in many NHL games with his brother, Ed Bruneteau and later coached him on the Omaha Knights.\n\nBruneteau is most famous for ending the longest game in NHL playoff history. A rookie, he had been called up to the Red Wings just two weeks earlier and was still trying to adjust to the pace of the NHL when he was thrown into his first playoff series. On March 24, 1936, at the Montreal Forum, against the Montreal Maroons, Mud scored the winning goal at 16:30 of the sixth overtime (116:30 of total overtime) to win the first game of the best-of-five series for Detroit, 1–0. Bruneteau batted a rolling puck past Maroons' goalie Lorne Chabot for the decisive score. Teammate Hec Kilrea was credited with an assist on the play. The game ended at 2:25 a.m. (The length of the game eclipsed the previous record of 104 minutes and 46 seconds of overtime set three years earlier in a 1933 series between the Toronto Maple Leafs and Boston Bruins. Ken Doraty scored the winner in that game for Toronto, which also ended 1-0.) Detroit swept the series versus the Maroons in three straight games and went on to win the Stanley Cup. Bruneteau had his best season in 1943–44 when he scored 35 goals in 39 games in the 50 game NHL season.\n\nAfter his playing career was over, he became a successful minor league coach, leading the Omaha Knights to a number of United States Hockey League championships.\n\nHe was suffering from cancer when he traveled to Houston, Texas for cancer treatment in April 1982. While there, he fell gravely ill and died April 15, 1982.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924574", "title": "Kićo Slabinac", "text": "Kićo Slabinac\n\nKrunoslav \"Kićo\" Slabinac (born 28 March 1944 in Osijek) is a Croatian pop singer. His specialties are the songs nowadays inspired by folk music of Slavonia region of Croatia, and the uses of traditional instruments such as the tamburica.\n\nIn the 1960s Slabinac was a member of several rock'n'roll bands. He then opted for a solo career as a pop singer and moved to Zagreb. While performing in a club, he was noticed by Nikica Kalogjera, who gave him a chance to appear as a newcomer at the 1969 Split Festival. A year later, in 1970, Slabinac won the first prize at the Opatija Festival. He represented Yugoslavia at the Eurovision Song Contest 1971 with \"Tvoj dječak je tužan\", placing 14th.\n\nSlabinac's song \"Zbog jedne divne žene\" was a huge hit which solidified his status as a singer. However, in the 1970s, legal troubles and time spent abroad set back his career. After his return from the United States, Slabinac focused on folk music, although he remained active in the pop music scene.\n\nHis song \"Letaj mi\" became an evergreen in Macedonia, particularly because it was sung in Macedonian on the festival \"MakFest\" in 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924575", "title": "A Darkness at Sethanon", "text": "A Darkness at Sethanon\n\nA Darkness at Sethanon is a fantasy novel by American writer Raymond E. Feist, the third and final book in \"The Riftwar Saga\", the first series of novels in \"The Riftwar Cycle\" . It describes how Murmandamus, a new prince of the Dark Brotherhood, marshals the forces of the Moredhel and invades the kingdom, with the intent of finding the Lifestone, a powerful relic with which he will be able to destroy every living thing in the world, so as to resurrect the Valheru Lords of old. Only Pug and Tomas can stop this new evil, thereby ending the Riftwar.\n\nArutha, Prince of Krondor, uses an attempted assassination as a ruse to fake his own death so that he may travel north to confront Murmandamus. In his travels to the Northlands, Arutha finds his father's former enemy, Guy du Bas-Tyra, as the Protector of the city Armengar, the first location to be invaded by the dark army under Murmandamus. In an attempt to destroy a majority of the army, Guy orders the evacuation of the city, and ignites the naphtha mines below the city. Murmandamus escapes unscathed, and the army marches towards the border of the Kingdom of the Isles.\n\nMeanwhile, Pug and Tomas begin searching the world, and eventually beyond, for the famed sorcerer Macros the Black, thought killed when he helped to destroy the rift (at the end of \"Magician\"). Macros reveals that he had put into motion a grand plot to instill Tomas with the powers of the Valheru, Ashen-Shugar, in order to turn the tides of the coming battle in their favour.\n\nMurmandamus, having successfully overrun the border city of Highcastle, marches towards his final objective: the town of Sethanon, which lies above an ancient ruins containing an artifact of power known as the Lifestone.\n\nMurmandamus lays siege to Sethanon, causing wholesale slaughter regardless of his own soldiers, in order to draw his necromantic power from their deaths. Steeped in power, he descends into the chamber of the Lifestone, and is confronted by Arutha, where they begin to duel. A rift begins to form within the chamber, held closed only by the magical efforts of Pug and Macros.\n\nArutha manages to kill Murmandamus, revealing his true form as a Pantathian impersonating a moredhel. With his death, the escaped magical energy causes the rift to open briefly, releasing a Valheru, and a life-stealing Dreadlord. Tomas, now fully embracing his Valheru heritage, battles his ancient kin, while his dragon mount fights the Dreadlord.\n\nAt the climax of the battle, Tomas stabs his sword through his enemy, and into the Lifestone, inadvertently releasing the spirits of all other Dragonlords. Their combined might, however, is no match for the Lifestone, the nexus of all life on Midkemia. They are drawn into the Lifestone and trapped for all eternity. The invasion is over.\n\nAfterwards, Macros entrusts the guardianship of the world to Pug and Tomas, saying that his task to protect Midkemia is finished, and disappears.\n"}
{"id": "1924581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924581", "title": "Members of the 26th Dáil", "text": "Members of the 26th Dáil\n\nThis is a list of members who were elected to the 26th Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Oireachtas (legislature) of Ireland. These TDs (Members of Parliament) were elected at the 1989 general election on 15 June 1989 and met on 29 June 1989. The 26th Dáil was dissolved by President Mary Robinson, at the request of the Taoiseach Albert Reynolds on 5 November 1992. The 26th Dáil lasted 1,259 days, and saw a change of Taoiseach from Charles Haughey to Albert Reynolds. There were no by-elections during the 26th Dáil.\n\nGovernment coalition parties denoted with bullets (•)\n\nThis is a graphical comparison of party strengths in the 26th Dáil from June 1989.\n\n\nThe list of the 166 TDs elected, is given in alphabetical order by constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924583", "title": "Eugene Record", "text": "Eugene Record\n\nEugene Booker Record (December 23, 1940 – July 22, 2005) was an American singer, songwriter, arranger and record producer. Record had international hits with: \"Oh Girl,\" \"Have You Seen Her,\" \"Soulful Strut,\" and \"(For God's Sake) Give More Power to the People\". He was best known as the lead vocalist of the Chicago-based vocal group The Chi-Lites during the 1960s and 1970s and 1980s. He also wrote and produced many of the group's hits in the 1970s on Brunswick Records, as well as writing and producing for other acts.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, United States, to Booker and Bernice Record, Record was drawn to music through his older sister's involvement as a pianist. He learned to play the guitar and formed his first group while at high school with Robert Lester, who stayed on when they joined up with two members of another local group to form The Hi-Lites and eventually changing the name to The Chi-Lites. After a few unsuccessful singles, the group was signed by Brunswick Records production chief in Chicago, Carl Davis.\n\nRecord wrote or co-wrote (often with singer Barbara Acklin) a long series of hits for the group, including million-sellers \"Have You Seen Her\" and \"Oh Girl\", as well as major hits, such as \"Homely Girl\" and \"Give More Power To The People\". He also wrote and produced for other artists, mostly on Brunswick, including Acklin, Jackie Wilson, The Lost Generation, Otis Leavill, and later, The Dells and The Impressions.\n\nWhen Brunswick began to falter due to legal and financial issues in the mid-1970s, Record decided to go solo and released three albums (entitled \"The Eugene Record\", \"Trying to Get to You\", and \"Welcome to My Fantasy\") in the late 1970s on Warner Music Group without major success, before re-joining The Chi-Lites in 1980. As well as returning to sing with the group, he teamed up again with Carl Davis, formerly his mentor at Brunswick, to produce and take on executive duties for Davis' Chi-Sound Records label.\n\nRecord stayed with The Chi-Lites until the mid-1980s for several albums on various labels before leaving again. Becoming a born-again Christian, he produced a gospel album on his own Evergreen label. He also continued to make occasional guest appearances with the group.\n\nIn 1978, he appeared on \"Saturday Night Live\" with Michael Palin. He performed \"Have You Seen Her\" and \"Trying to Get to You\".\n\nEugene Record was married twice. He first married his high school sweetheart, Sandra Scott, about whom the hit, Have You Seen Her, was written. He later married his second wife, Jacqueline. Record has been erroneously reported to have married Barbara Acklin. They were never married.\n\nRecord had several hits after rejoining the Chilites in the early 1980s. With Linda F. Williams, writing under the name L. F. Butler and L. Frances Butler had three releases by the Chilites:\n\n\nHe is a co-writer of the 2003 Beyoncé hit record \"Crazy in Love\", thanks to its sampling of The Chi-Lites' \"Are You My Woman (Tell Me So)\". His writing contribution earned him a Grammy Award.\n\nHe died on July 22, 2005, in Chicago, after a long battle with cancer. He was 64.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924584", "title": "PragVEC", "text": "PragVEC\n\nPragVEC was a post-punk band from London, England, formed in 1978. The band name was a contraction of the two words \"pragmatism\" and \"vector\", chosen at random.\nPragVEC were formed in February 1978 by ex-Derelicts members Susan Gogan (vocals, synthesizer) and John Studholme guitar, synthesizer, along with David Boyd (bass) and Nicholas Cash (drums).\n\nOn 16 October 1978, they released their debut EP, the four-song 7\" \"Bits\", on their own Spec Records label. It was followed on 10 July 1979 by the \"Expert\" single. Both records were compiled on an eponymous 12\" EP issued on the French label Celluloid Records.\n\nPragVEC played concerts during 1978 and 1979, opening for bands such as Cabaret Voltaire, Scritti Politti, the Psychedelic Furs, the Monochrome Set, Au Pairs, Magazine, Chelsea, Stiff Little Fingers and the Teardrop Explodes.\n\nDuring their short existence, they also recorded a total of three sessions for the John Peel programme. The last of these showed them moving away from the guitar-based sound of the first EP towards the use of the Wasp, a battery-powered portable synthesizer with a built-in speaker. Two of the songs, \"Rural Erotic\" and \"Third Person\", were re-recorded for the \"No-Cowboys\" album, released in December 1980. Packaged in a polythene bag, the record was presented as a compilation by various bands, although all of the material was recorded by PragVEC. \n\nThe band split in 1981, with Cash joining Fad Gadget and the Lines. Gogan joined the Atoms. Jim Thirlwell, who had contributed Wasp synth to \"No-Cowboys\", went on to form Foetus. \n\nStudholme, who had co-written many of the band's songs with Gogan, died in November 2005 after a long illness. Around the time of his death, he, Gogan and Cash had been working with Mute Records to compile a reissue of PragVEC material.\n\nPragVEC were referenced in the Half Man Half Biscuit song \"Prag VEC at the Melkweg\", which appeared on that band's 1991 album \"McIntyre, Treadmore and Davitt\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924596", "title": "A Dictionary of Americanisms", "text": "A Dictionary of Americanisms\n\nA Dictionary of Americanisms on Historical Principles is a dictionary of English words and phrases that originated in the United States. The two-volume dictionary was edited by Mitford M. Mathews and was published in 1951 by University of Chicago Press.\n\nThe work should not be confused with John Russell Bartlett's work, \"Dictionary of Americanisms\"\n"}
{"id": "1924597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924597", "title": "Flowers (Ace of Base album)", "text": "Flowers (Ace of Base album)\n\nFlowers is the third album by the Swedish pop music group Ace of Base. It was released in June 1998 in Europe, Asia, and Africa, and August 10 in the United Kingdom. An American version, titled \"Cruel Summer\", was released on September 1 and contained remixes, re-recordings, and new recordings deemed appropriate for an American audience. Japan and Australia received hybrid versions of the two albums.\n\nThis is the last physical release of any Ace of Base album to date in Australia, however their back catalogue has since been made available on iTunes.\n\n\"Flowers\" spawned the singles \"Life Is a Flower\", \"Cruel Summer\" and \"Always Have, Always Will\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1924599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924599", "title": "Missouri Route 366", "text": "Missouri Route 366\n\nRoute 366 is a highway located completely within the St. Louis metropolitan area. It is primarily a former section of U.S. Route 66. Beginning at South Broadway/South Jefferson Avenue in St. Louis and ending at the Interstate 44/Interstate 270 interchange in Sunset Hills, it was established in 1979 when US 66 was decertified between Chicago, Illinois and Joplin, Missouri. \n\nThrough the several suburbs of St. Louis it is known as Watson Road, while in the city of St. Louis itself, it is named Chippewa Street.\n\nFor 20 years, Route 366 was the only non-Interstate route in the City of St. Louis maintained by the State of Missouri. It officially extended eastward only to Brannon Avenue, two blocks west of South Kingshighway Boulevard. \n\nIn 1999, the Route 366 designation was extended east several miles, to include the remaining section of Chippewa Street that was previously part of United States Route 66 (from Chippewa to Gravois, where U.S. Route 66 had historically turned northeastward toward downtown St. Louis), as well as the section east of Gravois as far as South Broadway/South Jefferson Avenue which had never been part of U.S. Route 66.\n"}
{"id": "1924603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924603", "title": "Hieronymus Froben", "text": "Hieronymus Froben\n\nHieronymus Froben (1501–1563) was a famous pioneering printer in Basel and the eldest son of Johann Froben. He was educated at the University of Basel and traveled widely in Europe.\n\nHe, his father and his brother-in-law Nicolaus Episcopius were noted for their working friendship with Erasmus and for making Basel an important center of Renaissance printing. Their editions include the first Latin edition of Georgius Agricola's \"De Re Metallica\" in 1556, and some of them incorporate artwork by Hans Holbein the Younger. Through his own sons, Ambrosius and Aurelius, the family continued their printing concern through the end of the next century.\n"}
{"id": "1924604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924604", "title": "Topological skeleton", "text": "Topological skeleton\n\nIn shape analysis, skeleton (or topological skeleton) of a shape is a thin version of that shape that is equidistant to its boundaries. The skeleton usually emphasizes geometrical and topological properties of the shape, such as its connectivity, topology, length, direction, and width. Together with the distance of its points to the shape boundary, the skeleton can also serve as a representation of the shape (they contain all the information necessary to reconstruct the shape).\n\nSkeletons have several different mathematical definitions in the technical literature, and there are many different algorithms for computing them. Various different variants of skeleton can also be found, including straight skeletons, morphological skeletons, etc.\n\nIn the technical literature, the concepts of skeleton and medial axis are used interchangeably by some authors, while some other authors regard them as related, but not the same. Similarly, the concepts of \"skeletonization\" and thinning are also regarded as identical by some, and not by others.\n\nSkeletons are widely used in computer vision, image analysis, pattern recognition and digital image processing for purposes such as optical character recognition, fingerprint recognition, visual inspection or compression. Within the life sciences skeletons found extensive use to characterize protein folding and plant morphology on various biological scales.\n\nSkeletons have several different mathematical definitions in the technical literature; most of them lead to similar results in continuous spaces, but usually yield different results in discrete spaces.\n\nIn his seminal paper, Harry Blum of the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories at Hanscom Air Force Base, in Bedford, Massachusetts, defined a medial axis for computing a skeleton of a shape, using an intuitive model of fire propagation on a grass field, where the field has the form of the given shape. If one \"sets fire\" at all points on the boundary of that grass field simultaneously, then the skeleton is the set of quench points, i.e., those points where two or more wavefronts meet. This intuitive description is the starting point for a number of more precise definitions.\n\nA disk (or ball) \"B\" is said to be \"maximal\" in a set \"A\" if\n\n\nOne way of defining the skeleton of a shape \"A\" is as the set of centers of all maximal disks in \"A\".\n\nThe skeleton of a shape \"A\" can also be defined as the set of centers of the discs that touch the boundary of \"A\" in two or more locations. This definition assures that the skeleton points are equidistant from the shape boundary and is mathematically equivalent to Blum's medial axis transform.\n\nMany definitions of skeleton make use of the concept of distance function, which is a function that returns for each point \"x\" inside a shape \"A\" its distance to the closest point on the boundary of \"A\". Using the distance function is very attractive because its computation is relatively fast.\n\nOne of the definitions of skeleton using the distance function is as the ridges of the distance function. There is a common mis-statement in the literature that the skeleton consists of points which are \"locally maximum\" in the distance transform. This is simply not the case, as even cursory comparison of a distance transform and the resulting skeleton will show. Ridges may have varying height, so a point on the ridge may be lower than its immediate neighbor on the ridge. It is thus not a local maximum, even though it belongs to the ridge. It is, however, less far away vertically than its ground distance would warrant. Otherwise it would be part of the slope.\n\n\nThere are many different algorithms for computing skeletons for shapes in digital images, as well as continuous sets.\n\n\nSkeletonization algorithms can sometimes create unwanted branches on the output skeletons. Pruning algorithms are often used to remove these branches.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924608", "title": "Tereza Kesovija", "text": "Tereza Kesovija\n\nTereza Ana Kesovija (; born 3 October 1938) is an internationally acclaimed Croatian recording artist. She is one of the most recognizable figures on the Balkan music scene, and is renowned for her wide vocal range and operatic style. She also had a successful career in France. She has held many concerts around the world, being one of the few Yugoslav musicians to have sold out shows in The Royal Albert Hall, L'Olympia and Carnegie Hall.\n\nTereza was born in Dubrovnik and grew up in Konavle and Dubrovnik where she got her early music education. She won a federal young Musicians Competition in Ljubljana, Slovenia. Afterwards, she graduated from the flute program at the Zagreb Music Academy and as a student began appearing in amateur music events. In 1962, shortly after the start of her professional career, she won her first international contest at Saint-Vincent, Italy. After this success Tereza had a tour in USSR and she recorded there one EP with Italian songs for the biggest Russian music company – \"Melodiya\". She spent 1963 and 1964 touring USSR, Poland, Finland, Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Norway and Sweden. She also had a lot of TV appearances in these countries.\n\nIn 1965, she moved to France, although she did not speak French. There she became a famous star. At the beginning she was singing in cabarets. Mostly in cabaret Carević. She said: “Six tough months. I used to remain in smoke until early in the morning. Waiting for my performances I didn’t know what to do. I was sitting all alone smoking cigarette after cigarette.” In 1967, she made the first recording of \"La chanson de Lara\" (\"Lara's theme\") from the film \"Doctor Zhivago\".\n\nIt was her first big French success sold out in more than 50 000 copies. After album La chanson de Lara she recorded her second French album \"C’est ma chanson\" with song \"Je l'aime, je l'aime\". It was sold out in more than 160 000 copies. With the song \"Bien plus fort\", Tereza was chosen by Grace Kelly to represent Monaco on Eurovision. She was frequently called as La bête de scène or Super-Dalida by French press. In 1968 Tereza performed with Enrico Macias at the L'Olympia in Paris. It was her second Olympia after 1966. She had toured France.\n\nDuring the 1970s Tereza became world-known start representing Yugoslav and French song worldwide. In Yugoslavia, her song \"Nono moj dobri Nono\" was popular. Claudio Villa recorded \"Il tuo mondo\", an Italian version of Tereza's \"Nono\" and Mireille Mathieu recorded the French version, \"Pour deux coeurs qui s'aiment\". She performed on many famous festivals (in Mexico City, Rio de Janeiro, Sopot, Palma de Majorca, Sofia, Istanbul...) In Yugoslavia, she was honored with Best Female Singer of the Year Award six years in a row (1974–79).\n\nHer performs on Yugoslav festivals were always finished with Tereza's triumph. She won many golden records and for it, she won for several times the Yugoslav award for Best Record Seller – Golden Bird. In 1972 she represented Yugoslavia on Eurovision with \"Muzika i ti\" (\"The Music and you\"). She won ninth place and recorded a French cover, \"La Musique et toi\". At the beginning of the 1970s she moved from Paris to Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, and she neglected a bit her French career. In 1978 she returned to with her interpretation of \"Je suis née ce jour-là\".\n\nShe recorded for EMI several French records. At that time she had many tours in Russia, Egypt, Mexico, Japan, United States, Germany, Eastern Europe... At the end of 70s she was at the height of her fame. All her records were awarded, she sang to Yugoslav president Josip Broz Tito and she was Tito's favourite singer. Her biggest hits are from late 1970s are \"Što je ostalo od ljubavi, Zaboravi ako možeš, Sviraj mi sviraj, Sve se vraća sve se plaća, Na Stradunu…\", and others.\n\nDuring the 1980s, she continued to touring all around the world. She recorded also several records in France. She continued to win on many important Yugoslav festivals in Split, Zagreb, Belgrade... She was honoured with The best Yugoslav female singer of year award for several times and she realised golden, platinum and diamond records. But the most important event was in 1988. She gave a concert at Olympia Hall in Paris. It was announced as the event of season. She recorded some records in France. Tereza finished 80s touring in Scandinavia and representing Yugoslav football team on Italian TV during Football World Cup.\n\nIn the decade following the breakup of Yugoslavia in 1991, there were wars all over the former Yugoslavia, including the Croatian War of Independence between 1991 and 1995. She defended it with a song. She had a lot of concerts in Italy, France and Germany for collecting money to the defence of Croatia. She had some concerts in Zagreb with Serge Lama. Jacques Chirac honored Tereza in 1999 with Knighthood of High Decoration of Arts and Culture. And she and was also bestowed with the Golden Chart of Humanism. She started to reconstruct a house from 18th century near Dubrovnik. It was a house of an old aristocratic family.\n\nIn the new millennium, she entered with her big hit – I ni me stra' (And I don't have any fear). In 2002 her concert from Olympia was realised on CD edition. This 2002 is important year in her career, because she had some concerts together with Michel Legrand, Oscar and Grammy winner. They performed together superbly Les parapluies de Cherbourgh. It was announced as a concert of the year. In 2005 Tereza celebrated 45 years of her career with a concert Mojih 45 skalina in Lisinski Concert Hall. Her fourth concert at Olympia Concert Hall was realised in 2007. It was her big retour in France.\n\nShe recorded her Croatian album \"Zaustavi vrijeme\" (\"Stop the time\"). It was third best-selling album in Croatia. After 2008 she was toured Slovenia, Macedonia, Croatia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). In 2010, she celebrated 50 years onstage with a concert \"Još se srce umorilo nije\" at Zagreb's Lisinski Concert Hall. Her press conference for her first post-war concerts in Serbia was heavily covered, with more than 200 journalists. In 2011 she decided to come back in Serbia and Montenegro. She participated in charity work, which included UNESCO's gala concerts. She recorded songs in seven languages (Croatian*, English, French, Italian, German, Portuguese, and Serbian* (*= accents of Serbo-Croatian language). Her discography includes 12 records released for Columbia Records and about 30 LPs, 70 singles, and 12 CDs for other labels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924611", "title": "Renier of Montferrat", "text": "Renier of Montferrat\n\nRenier of Montferrat (in Italian, Ranieri di Monferrato) (1162–1183) was the fifth son of William V of Montferrat and Judith of Babenberg. He became son-in-law of the Byzantine Emperor Manuel I Komnenos and \"Caesar\" in 1180, and was later murdered in a Byzantine power-struggle.\n\nIt was Manuel who suggested the marriage of his daughter Maria the Porphyrogenita to a son of William V. Since Conrad and Boniface were already married, and Frederick was in the priesthood, the only eligible son was the youngest, 17-year-old Renier. The Byzantine chronicler Niketas Choniates described him as handsome, blond (his hair \"\"shone like the sun\"\") and beardless.\n\nRenier arrived in Constantinople in autumn 1179 and soon afterwards accompanied Manuel on a military expedition. His marriage to the 27-year-old Maria took place at the Church of St. Mary of Blachernae, in February 1180. The wedding was celebrated with lavish festivity including games in the Hippodrome of Constantinople, as fully described by the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, William of Tyre, who happened to be present. Renier was given the title \"Caesar\", was renamed John, and (according to some Western sources) was granted Thessalonica, presumably as an estate for life, a \"pronoia\". Maria was second in line to the throne, and had only been deprived of the succession by the birth of her much younger half-brother Alexios. Thus Renier became entangled in the perpetual power struggle around the Byzantine throne.\nWith the death of Manuel in September 1180, the throne fell to the boy Alexios II, with his mother, the empress Maria, acting as regent. The Empress caused a scandal by taking the \"protosebastos\" Alexios Komnenos as a lover. This, combined with her Latin-friendly views, triggered a plot to end the regency (or, as some describe it, to overthrow the Emperor) and give power to Maria and Renier. The plot was discovered, and several conspirators arrested. Maria and Renier sought refuge in the Hagia Sophia cathedral with some 150 of their followers. Fighting ensued, later dubbed the \"Holy War\" as it took place in that most holy church. Eventually, the conspirators were offered an amnesty to end the hostilities.\nBoth the Emperor and the conspirators soon fell victim to another usurper, however, as Manuel's cousin and rival Andronikos Komnenos returned from exile, apparently with Maria's encouragement, and, more importantly, with an army in support. Andronikos' takeover was marked by the massacre of the Latin population that followed. Maria died soon afterwards, allegedly by poison: she was, no doubt, a potential focus of opposition to the usurper. Renier seems to have shared her fate, though his death is noted by very few sources.\n\nAlexios II was forced to recognise Andronikos as his co-Emperor, and was later murdered. The Latin massacre had not been forgotten, twenty years later, when the leaders of the Fourth Crusade found reasons to divert their expedition to Constantinople. Later sources suggest that Renier's surviving older brother Boniface based his claim to Thessalonica on his late brother's title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924612", "title": "Yanic Perreault", "text": "Yanic Perreault\n\nYanic Jacques Perreault (born April 4, 1971) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player who played thirteen seasons in the National Hockey League.\n\nAs a youth, he played in the 1983 and 1984 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournaments with a minor ice hockey team from Sherbrooke, Quebec.\n\nPerreault started his hockey career for the Trois-Rivières Draveurs where he was one of the best offensive players in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League, racking up a total of 185 points in his most productive season. He was drafted in the third round, 47th overall by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the 1991 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nCarrying a reputation as too slow a skater to succeed in the NHL, Perreault played three years for the St. John's Maple Leafs, Toronto's American Hockey League affiliate. Perreault led the St. John's Maple Leafs to a seventh game in the Calder Cup finals in the 1992 season and to first-place finishes the following two seasons; his 132 goals and 276 points became in that span, and remain, career records for the Leafs' American Hockey League franchise.\n\nPerreault made his NHL debut in that third season with the Leafs, showing some flash in spot duty, before being traded to the Los Angeles Kings for a fourth round pick in 1994. He spent most of that season with the Kings' minor league affiliate, the Phoenix Roadrunners, scoring 51 goals to lead the team.\n\nThe following year was his breakout season, making the NHL for good with the Kings, where he became the team's lead centre after Wayne Gretzky was traded late in the year amidst a full-scale reorganization of the team; Perreault scored 25 goals to finish second on the squad. He played three more seasons in Los Angeles before being sent back to Toronto in 1999, for Jason Podollan and a third round selection. In 2001, Perreault signed with the Montreal Canadiens as a free agent, remaining three seasons before sitting out the lockout year of 2005, after which he signed with the Nashville Predators, with whom he scored 57 points, his NHL career high.\n\nHe signed after that single season with the Phoenix Coyotes and was selected to play in the 2007 NHL All-Star Game. On February 27, 2007, Perreault, packaged with a fifth round draft pick, was traded from the Coyotes to Toronto for defencemen Brendan Bell and a second round draft pick, marking his third round of duty with the Maple Leafs.\n\nPerreault signed with the Chicago Blackhawks as a free agent on July 1, 2007. However, with his scoring skills diminishing, he retired at the end of the 2007-08 season.\n\nPerreault is often considered one of the best faceoff men in NHL history.\n\nOn October 4, 2013 − one day ahead of the second game of the season - the Blackhawks announced they had hired Perreault to help the team improve its face-off success rate. Perreault is also head coach for the Chicago Mission 2005 youth team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924623", "title": "Cruel Summer (Ace of Base album)", "text": "Cruel Summer (Ace of Base album)\n\nCruel Summer is a 1998 album by Swedish pop group Ace of Base, released as the band's third album in North America on July 14, 1998 and in Japan on August 25, 1998 by Arista Records. Arista Records decided to release a different version of the album in the North America and Japan, retitled \"Cruel Summer\". This version of the album featured the new track \"Everytime It Rains\" and many new versions of songs that were first featured on \"Flowers\". As executive producer, Clive Davis enlisted collaborators including production team Cutfather & Joe and songwriter Billy Steinberg. While primarily a pop album, \"Cruel Summer\" explores the genres of euro disco, Motown, and dance.\n\n\"Cruel Summer\" received generally favorable reviews from music critics, who complimented its production and viewed it as a superior version of \"Flowers\". Despite this, the album was not a success and failed to crack the top 100 of the \"Billboard\" 200, peaking at number 101. The project was promoted with a series of live television performances which received minimal participation from band member Linn Berggren. Two singles were released from the album, one which became an international success. Its titular lead single \"Cruel Summer\" peaked at number 10 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and was certified gold. The second and final single, \"Whenever You're Near Me\" received little promotion and peaked at number 76.\n\nAce of Base did not immediately return to the studio as they had with their second album. Band member Linn Berggren grew tired of the spotlight and had returned home early from the group's tour of Asia. The quartet took a break from both recording and promotion; Ulf Ekberg moved to Marbella, Spain.\n\nIn mid-1997, the band's record companies asked Ace of Base for new material. Representatives at Arista Records specifically asked for \"summery\", sunny songs. By Autumn of 1997, \"Doctor Sun\" had been recorded; it was the first song completed for the new album. The band members test-played the song in several clubs in Gothenburg. Originally, the song featured vocals from all four members, but Ulf's vocals were eventually cut on the final version, which was not released in the United States.\n\nThe band members had resisted recording another cover song, but at the insistence of their British record label, Polydor Records, as well as Arista Records, Jonas Berggren chose Bananarama's \"Cruel Summer\" in what he called \"an easy decision\". While the original version, produced by Johnny Jam & Delgado, was released as a single in Europe, it was considered unsuitable for an American release. A new rerecorded version, overseen by Arista president Clive Davis and produced by Cutfather and Joe was commissioned instead. Clive Davis also oversaw the production of \"Adventures in Paradise\". Jenny had written \"He Decides\" for the new album, however, this song, too, was considered unsuitable in its original form, and was remixed by Charles Fisher. The resulting mix was darker in tone than the original. Ulf composed \"more than twenty songs\", but only one was used on the released album. Linn wrote and produced a demo titled \"Lapponia\", which was originally submitted for \"The Bridge\", but the track was rejected.\n\nArista generally chose songs written by Jonas for the album, although not all of these songs were considered album-worthy in their original versions. Jenny was asked to record new vocals for a reproduced version of \"Donnie\", and Linn's vocals were cut altogether. The resulting remix was later described as a \"Phil Spector-inspired Wall of Sound\". \"Life Is a Flower\" was considered unsuitable for American audiences, despite high chart positions worldwide. Clive Davis ordered a new version, which became \"Whenever You're Near Me\", a love song. The record company head also was instrumental in the recording (and re-recording) of \"Everytime it Rains\". The original vocals by Jenny were found unsuitable, and a version featuring Linn's voice was used instead. Linn was very reluctant to record the song and recorded only one take for the final composition. \"Travel to Romantis\" was remixed by Love To Infinity and \"Always Have, Always Will\" was edited for the U.S. release.\n\nThe album's European title, \"Flowers\", was changed, and Arista originally settled on the name \"Everytime it Rains\", but retitled the album \"Cruel Summer\" following the successful performance of the single.\n\nThe artwork for the album is the same as the art used on \"Flowers\", however, the album booklets have different designs. The artwork was shot by photographer Jonas Linell. While each band member received one page in the album booklet dedicated to a solo picture, Linn's image is the only one that is blurred. This image is the same as the one found on the cover of the album, but zoomed-in and flipped. Linn was not present for the entirety of the photo shoot and had to be edited into some of the photos.\n\n\"Cruel Summer\" was released as the first single from the album and became a top ten hit, peaking at number ten on both the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and Hot Dance Club Songs charts. The song was promoted in the United States with performances on \"CBS This Morning\" and \"The View\", which Linn was present for. \"Cruel Summer\" received positive reviews from critics, such as \"Billboard\" Magazine, who called the song a \"potential smash\" and \"Amazon.com\", who described the track as a \"light, upbeat groove\" in their review of the album. \"Entertainment Weekly\" was more critical of the song, calling it \"pointless\" in an otherwise positive album review.\n\nA second single, \"Whenever You're Near Me\", received little attention, and was not even correctly promoted on the Arista website, where it was listed as \"Whenever \"You Need\" Me\" despite fan efforts to get the mistake corrected. A music video for the song was not produced, however the song was promoted with a live performance on \"Ricki Lake\" which Linn did not attend. \"Whenever You're Near Me\" received a positive review from Larry Flick of \"Billboard\" Magazine, who noted that the song was \"rife with sunny Caribbean percussion and a sweet smattering of acoustic guitar/synth interplay.\" He also predicted that the single \"should saturate airwaves within seconds.\" Despite this, the song peaked at number 76 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and spent only five weeks on the chart. The track was somewhat more successful in Canada, where it peaked at number 51.\n\nFurther singles were released from \"Flowers\" across Europe, but no further singles were released from \"Cruel Summer\" in the United States. \"Everytime it Rains\" was later remixed and released as a promotional single from \"Greatest Hits\" in April 2000.\n\nUpon its release, \"Cruel Summer\" received generally positive reviews from music critics. Tom Lanham of \"Entertainment Weekly\" provided a favorable review, noting that \"there isn’t a note out of concordant place, no potential hook overlooked\". He compared the album favorably to works of ABBA, describing the album as \"perfect pop-Euro-disco balance.\" Rebecca Wallwork of \"Amazon.com\" shared a similar sentiment and described \"Cruel Summer\" as a \"collection of syncopation and radio-friendly melodies.\" Paul Verna of \"Billboard\" Magazine described the album as \"a record of surprising freshness.\" In a review for \"Flowers\", Jose F. Promis of \"AllMusic\" stated that the track \"Donnie\" was in a superior form on \"Cruel Summer\", noting that the track was \"somewhat under-produced and unrealized on \"Flowers\" but truly shines on \"Cruel Summer\".\" He also noted that the overall production on \"Cruel Summer\" was \"meatier than on \"Flowers\".\" Fred Bronson of \"Billboard\" Magazine ranked the album number one in the 1998 \"the year in music\" critics' poll. He preferred \"Cruel Summer\" to \"Flowers\", stating \"credit Clive Davis for transforming the original release into one of the greatest pop albums of all time.\"\n\nIn contrast, Stephen Thomas Erlewine of \"AllMusic\" was more critical in his review, comparing the album to \"The Sign\" and \"The Bridge\". Despite calling the title track a \"melodic high point\", he stated that the album failed \"to rival their previous pop pinnacles\" and that the album sounded \"a little too similar its predecessors\". \"Donnie\", \"Always Have, Always Will\", and the Love to Infinity mix of \"Travel to Romantis\" were listed as track picks for the album.\n\nDespite spawning a top ten single, the album was not successful. It peaked at number 101 on \"Billboard\"'s Hot 200 Album chart and dropped out of the charts ten weeks after its release. People Magazine reported in December 1998 that only 122,000 copies of the \"Cruel Summer\" album had sold, while the \"Flowers\" album had received a platinum certification in Switzerland, gold certifications in Denmark and Sweden, and a silver certification in the United Kingdom. \"Cruel Summer\" was more successful in Canada, where it peaked at number 23 and was certified gold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924626", "title": "Clive Allen", "text": "Clive Allen\n\nClive Darren Allen (born 20 May 1961) is an English former professional footballer who played as a forward for seven different London clubs. Allen had been a prolific striker throughout his career.\n\nClive Allen was born in Stepney, London on 20, May 1961. His father is Les Allen who was a member of Tottenham Hotspur's Double-winning team of 1960–61. His younger brother is Bradley Allen and his cousins Martin Allen and Paul Allen also played football.\n\nHe started his career at Queens Park Rangers in the late 1970s, and scored 32 league goals in 49 appearances, before moving to Arsenal.\n\nAllen signed for Arsenal in the summer of 1980 for a fee of £1.25m, but he did not play a single competitive match (although he did play three matches in Arsenal's 1980–81 pre-season friendly campaign). He shortly moved on to Crystal Palace in a swap deal with Kenny Sansom.\n\nAllen was Palace's top scorer for the 1980–81 season with nine goals in the league and 11 in all competitions, when Palace finished bottom of the First Division.\n\nQPR, still in the Second Division, were now managed by Terry Venables (who had signed Allen for Palace) and in Allen's first season back at the club (1981–82) he scored 13 Second Division goals, though not enough to win promotion. QPR also had their most successful FA Cup run, reaching the FA Cup Final for the first time with Allen scoring the goals in 1–0 victories in both the 6th Round (vs Crystal Palace) and semi-final (vs West Bromwich Albion). Allen was injured in the final against Tottenham Hotspur and subsequently missed the replay.\n\nOver the next two seasons, Allen scored 27 League goals as QPR first won the Second Division Championship in 1982–83 and then finished fifth in the First Division in 1983–84. He moved to Tottenham for a £700,000 fee.\n\nAllen scored twice on his debut on 25 August 1984, a 4–1 away win at Everton, and scored 10 goals from 18 appearances in his first season, in which Spurs finished third behind Liverpool and Everton.\n\nIn 1986–87 he scored 33 League goals, and 49 goals in all competitions.\n\nHe also picked up the titles of PFA Player of the Year and Football Writers' Association Footballer of the Year.\n\nHe moved from Spurs to join Bordeaux in March 1988.\n\nIn July 1989 he joined Manchester City, who had just been promoted to the First Division. He scored 10 league goals in his first season, but only four goals in 1990–91. He managed three appearances and scored twice in the league for City the following season, and was transferred to Chelsea in December 1991.\n\nHe scored seven goals in 16 league games over the next three months with Chelsea before he joined West Ham United in March 1992, scoring once in four league games but was unable to stop them from being relegated.\n\nHe scored 14 goals in the 1992–93 Division One campaign as West Ham were promoted as runners-up. His goal on the last day of the season, against Cambridge United, secured promotion to the Premier League. He played just seven league games in the 1993–94 in the new Premier League scoring two goals, against Sheffield Wednesday in August 1993. He played his final game for West Ham in March 1994 in a 0-0 FA Cup sixth-round game at Upton Park against Luton Town, coming on as a substitute for Lee Chapman.\n\nIn January 1994, when Allen was out of favour at West Ham United, Tottenham manager Ossie Ardiles (who had been his Tottenham teammate the previous decade) expressed interest in bringing Allen back to White Hart Lane as he looked to spend up to £500,000 on buying a striker to cover for the injured Teddy Sheringham, but the transfer did not happen.\nAllen opted to drop down a division and join Millwall for a fee of £75,000.\n\nHe ended his career with three league games for Carlisle United in 1995–96.\n\nIn the summer of 1984, Allen was given his first England cap against Brazil. In total he made five appearances for England.\n\nIn 1997, he played for the London Monarchs in NFL Europe.\n\nHis son Oliver was also a footballer.\n"}
{"id": "1924628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924628", "title": "Native Instruments", "text": "Native Instruments\n\nNative Instruments is a developer, manufacturer, and supplier of music software and hardware for music production, sound design, performance, and DJing. The company's corporate headquarters and main development facilities are located in Berlin, Germany, with additional offices in Los Angeles, Tokyo, London, Paris, and Shenzhen.\n\nNative Instruments was founded in Berlin, Germany, where its headquarters are still located. Founders Stephan Schmitt and Volker Hinz began using the name Native Instruments in 1996, when they developed Generator, a modular synth software package (which would later form the foundations for their ongoing product, Reaktor).\n\nFollowing the release of Generator, the company's employees expanded to include Bernd Roggendorf (later a founder of Ableton) and Daniel Haver, who later became Native Instruments' CEO.\n\nIn 1999, Native Instruments expanded their staff count and moved to their current building in Berlin's Kreuzberg district.\n\nIn 2000, the company began creating products for the DJ community, beginning with the first version of their Traktor software. In 2002, they expanded further to include software samplers, in the form of ongoing products Kontakt and Battery.\n\nIn September 2004, the company began a partnership with the DJ hardware manufacturing company Stanton Magnetics and with online music store Beatport. 2004 also saw the release of their guitar amplifier and effects pedal emulation software, Guitar Rig.\n\nNative Instruments now also has branches in Los Angeles, Tokyo, London, Paris, and Shenzhen.\n\nSoftware produced by Native Instruments includes the following:\n\nNative instruments also produce a number of other sample libraries, virtual instruments and effects processing plug-ins, many of which function through the architecture of Reaktor or Kontakt. Some of these software items are also grouped together in their Komplete software bundle.\n\nThe company also develops the Native Kontrol Standard (NKS), a plug-in extension which allows integration with Kontrol and Maschine products (both hardware and software).\n\nNative instruments also produce music hardware, such as:\n"}
{"id": "1924629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924629", "title": "Esa Tikkanen", "text": "Esa Tikkanen\n\nEsa Tikkanen (born January 25, 1965) is a Finnish former professional ice hockey forward. He played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Edmonton Oilers, New York Rangers, St. Louis Blues, New Jersey Devils, Vancouver Canucks, Florida Panthers, and the Washington Capitals, and won the Stanley Cup five times in his career, including in 1985, 1987, 1988, 1990 with the Oilers, and 1994 with the Rangers.\n\nEsa Tikkanen began his career in hockey as a little boy by being a mascot for Jokerit, a team based in Helsinki, and playing for the Jokerit junior team. After spending a year in Canada in 1981–82 with the Regina Blues of the Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League and Regina Pats of the Western Hockey League, Tikkanen returned to Finland and signed with HJK and after a set of impressive performances signed a contract with Finland's leading team, HIFK. Tikkanen was drafted in the fourth round (80th overall) by the Oilers in the 1983 NHL Entry Draft. In 1984–85, he played 36 games for HIFK in the Finnish SM-liiga before joining the Oilers for their 1985 playoff run. He played briefly in the American Hockey League for the Oilers' affiliate the Nova Scotia Oilers in 1985–86, before joining the team full-time.\n\nIn his early twenties Tikkanen began his pro career in big leagues while additionally working as a coach in South Korea. Tikkanen made his NHL debut with the Edmonton Oilers during the second game of the 1985 Stanley Cup playoffs. By playing one game in the finals that year, he was eligible to have his name engraved on the Stanley Cup even before playing his first regular-season game in the NHL. He soon became an important part of the Oilers, playing on the team's first line with Wayne Gretzky and Jari Kurri. Kurri and Gretzky's roles were to score goals; Tikkanen was the line's defensive player. Oilers coach and general manager Glen Sather once suggested that Tikkanen should be awarded the Frank J. Selke trophy (the award for the best defensive forward in the NHL). He was a finalist several times in his career, but never won the award. Tikkanen excelled at distracting and confusing opponents with his Tiki-Talk and shadowed Gretzky when he was with the Los Angeles Kings. Between 1986 and 1990, Tikkanen scored 30 or more goals three times and was on three more Cup champions. In 1991, he led the Edmonton Oilers in points in the regular season with 69 points.\n\nIn March 1993, Tikkanen was traded to the New York Rangers for Doug Weight, and he was part of that team's 1994 Stanley Cup victory, scoring 22 goals and 54 points in 83 regular-season games. In July 1994, Tikkanen was traded with Doug Lidster to the St. Louis Blues in exchange for Petr Nedvěd.\n\nThe start of the NHL's 1994–95 season was delayed by a lockout, during which Tikkanen returned to Finland to play for HIFK Helsinki. After the lockout Tikkanen, played with the Blues during the shortened 1995 season, and appeared in 11 games in 1995-96 before a trade sent him to the New Jersey Devils. Three weeks later he was again dealt, this time to the Vancouver Canucks.\n\nThe 1996–97 season saw him involved in yet another midseason trade, back to the Rangers, in March. Although he contributed only one goal in 14 regular-season games with New York, he came alive in the playoffs, scoring 9 times in 15 games. Of the Rangers, only Gretzky, with 10, outscored Tikkanen. The Rangers eliminated the Florida Panthers and New Jersey Devils before falling to the Philadelphia Flyers in the Eastern Conference finals.\n\nThe 32-year-old Tikkanen became a free agent in the summer of 1997, and he signed with the Panthers, but this would also prove to be a short stay. By March 1998 he had appeared in only 28 games, and Florida traded him to the Washington Capitals for Dwayne Hay. He appeared in all 21 of Washington's playoff games, as the Capitals went to the Stanley Cup finals, where they were swept in four straight games by the Detroit Red Wings. Tikkanen is remembered for missing a wide-open shot on goal that would have iced Game 2, which has been described as a turning point of the Series. This was to be Tikkanen's last full season in the NHL. After becoming a free agent prior to the 1998–99 season, he signed for a third stint with the Rangers. However, he only played in 32 games before an injury sidelined him for the rest of the season.\n\nBefore the start of the 1999–2000 season, Tikkanen attended the Oilers' training camp and was offered a role of playing coach in the minors. Tikkanen declined the offer and returned to Finland, where he played a full season with Helsinki's second team, Jokerit. In 877 NHL games, he had scored 244 goals and 386 assists for 630 points, while racking up 1,077 minutes in penalties. In 186 Stanley Cup playoff games, he scored 72 goals and 60 assists for 132 points, with 275 penalty minutes.\n\nIn 1999–2000, Tikkanen played a season with Helsinki-based team Jokerit, a rival team of HIFK, with whom Tikkanen had played earlier in his career. Jokerit finished in second place in the SM-Liiga. In 2000–01, Tikkanen moved to Germany, where he played what was to be his last season in a recognized professional league for Moskitos Essen of the DEL. He retired in 2001.\n\nDuring the 2004–05 season, Tikkanen resurfaced again, this time as a player-coach for the Anyang Halla, a South Korean team in the Asia League Ice Hockey. Though he predicted that he and his two linemates would finish 1-2-3 in scoring, he finished tied for fourth on his team, with 8 goals and 17 assists for 25 points in 30 games. He was 29th in the league in assists, and didn't crack the top 30 in goals or points. He did, however, lead Halla in penalty minutes with 58 (tied for 28th in the league). Halla finished fifth in the league and did not make the playoffs.\n\nAfter one season in Korea, Tikkanen became the coach for Frisk Tigers of the Norwegian GET-ligaen. Tikkanen was head coach only for the 2005–06 season.\n\nOn 27 December 2010 Jokipojat from Joensuu, Finland, announced that Tikkanen would be the head coach of the team for the rest of the 2010–2011 season. Jokipojat plays in Mestis, which is the second-highest league in Finland.\n\nEsa Tikkanen played 81 games for Finnish National team.\n\nTikkanen participated in two Canada Cups, 5 World Championship tournaments and the 1998 Winter Olympics.\n\nTikkanen won the Stanley Cup four times as a member of the Oilers and once more as a member of the Rangers. His various acquisitions were by teams craving him for his playoff experience and success: in 877 regular season games he scored 244 goals, but in 186 playoff games he scored 72 goals which puts him 14th all time in NHL playoff scoring, and 38th all time in play-offs points with 132points. \"Tik\" was known for his ability to score clutch goals, but also for his general style of play—chippy and aggressive. He was nicknamed \"The Grate One\" (a pun on teammate Gretzky's moniker \"The Great One\") for his ability to irritate opposing players, often just by talking to them in his Finnish-English \"Tikkanese\" or \"Tiki-Talk.\" His regular-season totals were 244 goals, 386 assists, and 1077 penalty minutes. In the playoffs, he added 72 goals, 60 assists, and 275 penalty minutes. Tikkanen also led the Edmonton Oilers with 69 points in the 1990-91 regular season. Tikkanen holds the NHL record for scoring two shorthanded goals in the shortest time (10 seconds apart). With 436 points and 178 goals as a member of Edmonton Oilers, he is rank 10th in points and 8th in goals in Edmonton Oilers all-time scoring leader. He's also 6th in Edmonton all-time scoring leader in team play-offs with 97 points, and 5th in goals with 51. He is also tied 20th all-time regular season short-handed goals leader with 29. He is also tied 4th all-time in play-offs overtime goals leader with 4 goals.\n\nHe appeared in an episode of the Trailer Park Boys:Out of the Park in 2016.\n\nIn the 2009 book \"100 Ranger Greats\", the authors ranked Tikkanen at No. 85 all-time of the 901 New York Rangers who had played during the team's first 82 seasons.\n\nHis #5 jersey has been retired by Jokerit.\n\nTikkanen is famous for his Finnish-English, sometimes referred to as \"Tikkanese\" or \"Tiki-Talk.\" Even members of his team often did not understand what he was saying. Wayne Gretzky once commented, \"He brings something special. I don't know what it is, but if you ask him, you couldn't understand his answer.\" Former Edmonton Oiler coach and teammate Craig MacTavish said, \"Esa talks twice as much as anybody else. That's because you can understand just half what he says.\"\n\nEven fellow Finn Jari Kurri was not immune from the confusing language. During their tenure with the Oilers, Tikkanen let go with a particularly colorful pronouncement, after which another player turned to Kurri and asked, \"What did he just say?\" Kurri simply shook his head; \"I have no idea.\"\n\nEsa Tikkanen has been married twice. His first wife was Swedish Ann Charlotte (Lotta) Kraft and they have two daughters, Sabrina and Stephanie. Tikkanen separated after 17 years of marriage in 2000. Tikkanen got engaged to Finnish top model Marita Hakala in 2001. In 2004, Esa Tikkanen married Tua Backman. They have two sons and a daughter that were born in 2009. The couple divorced in 2014.\n\n\nThe 1994 Breeders' Cup Turf was won by Tikkanen, a Thoroughbred racehorse named in Esa Tikkanen's honor by George W. Strawbridge, Jr., owner of Augustin Stable and an active director of the Buffalo Sabres NHL ice hockey club and a member of the team's executive committee for more than thirty years. \n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1924633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924633", "title": "Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia", "text": "Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia\n\nThe Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia (, \"Sakartvelos p’arlament’is tavmjdomare\") is the Speaker of the House in the Parliament of Georgia. The incumbent speaker is Archil Talakvadze, since June 25, 2019. \n\nPredecessors of the Parliament of Georgia were the National Council (May 1918 – October 1918), the Parliamentary Assembly (provisional) (1918–1919), the Constituent Assembly (1919–1921), the Parliament (1921), the Supreme Soviet of the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic (1921–1990) and the Supreme Council of the Republic of Georgia (1990–1992).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924637", "title": "Shielding gas", "text": "Shielding gas\n\nShielding gases are inert or semi-inert gases that are commonly used in several welding processes, most notably gas metal arc welding and gas tungsten arc welding (GMAW and GTAW, more popularly known as MIG (Metal Inert Gas) and TIG (Tungsten Inert Gas), respectively). Their purpose is to protect the weld area from oxygen, and water vapour. Depending on the materials being welded, these atmospheric gases can reduce the quality of the weld or make the welding more difficult. Other arc welding processes use alternative methods of protecting the weld from the atmosphere as well – shielded metal arc welding, for example, uses an electrode covered in a flux that produces carbon dioxide when consumed, a semi-inert gas that is an acceptable shielding gas for welding steel.\n\nImproper choice of a welding gas can lead to a porous and weak weld, or to excessive spatter; the latter, while not affecting the weld itself, causes loss of productivity due to the labor needed to remove the scattered drops.\n\nShielding gases fall into two categories—inert or semi-inert. Only two of the noble gases, helium and argon, are cost effective enough to be used in welding. These inert gases are used in gas tungsten arc welding, and also in gas metal arc welding for the welding of non-ferrous metals. Semi-inert shielding gases, or active shield gases, include carbon dioxide, oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen. These active gases are used with GMAW on ferrous metals. Most of these gases, in large quantities, would damage the weld, but when used in small, controlled quantities, can improve weld characteristics.\n\nThe important properties of shielding gases are their thermal conductivity and heat transfer properties, their density relative to air, and the ease with which they undergo ionization. Gases heavier than air (e.g. argon) blanket the weld and require lower flow rates than gases lighter than air (e.g. helium). Heat transfer is important for heating the weld around the arc. Ionizability influences how easy the arc starts, and how high voltage is required. Shielding gases can be used pure, or as a blend of two or three gases. In laser welding, the shielding gas has an additional role, preventing formation of a cloud of plasma above the weld, absorbing significant fraction of the laser energy. This is important for CO lasers; Nd:YAG lasers show lower tendency to form such plasma. Helium plays this role best due to its high ionization potential; the gas can absorb high amount of energy before becoming ionized.\n\nArgon is the common shielding gas, widely used as the base for the more specialized gas mixes.\n\nCarbon dioxide is the least expensive shielding gas, providing deep penetration, however it negatively affects the stability of the arc and enhances the molten metal's tendency to create droplets (spatter). Carbon dioxide in concentration of 1-2% is commonly used in the mix with argon to reduce the surface tension of the molten metal. Another common blend is 25% carbon dioxide and 75% argon for GMAW.\n\nHelium is lighter than air; larger flow rates are required. It is an inert gas, not reacting with the molten metals. Its thermal conductivity is high. It is not easy to ionize, requiring higher voltage to start the arc. Due to higher ionization potential it produces hotter arc at higher voltage, provides wide deep bead; this is an advantage for aluminium, magnesium, and copper alloys. Other gases are often added. Blends of helium with addition of 5–10% of argon and 2–5% of carbon dioxide (\"tri-mix\") can be used for welding of stainless steel. Used also for aluminium and other non-ferrous metals, especially for thicker welds. In comparison with argon, helium provides more energy-rich but less stable arc. Helium and carbon dioxide were the first shielding gases used, since the beginning of World War 2. Helium is used as a shield gas in laser welding for carbon dioxide lasers. Helium is more expensive than argon and requires higher flow rates, so despite its advantages it may not be a cost-effective choice for higher-volume production. Pure helium is not used for steel, as it then provides erratic arc and encourages spatter.\n\nOxygen is used in small amounts as an addition to other gases; typically as 2–5% addition to argon. It enhances arc stability and reduces the surface tension of the molten metal, increasing wetting of the solid metal. It is used for spray transfer welding of mild carbon steels, low alloy and stainless steels. Its presence increases the amount of slag. Argon-oxygen (Ar-O) blends are often being replaced with argon-carbon dioxide ones. Argon-carbon dioxide-oxygen blends are also used. Oxygen causes oxidation of the weld,so it is not suitable for welding aluminium, magnesium, copper, and some exotic metals. Increased oxygen makes the shielding gas oxidize the electrode, which can lead to porosity in the deposit if the electrode does not contain sufficient deoxidizers. Excessive oxygen, especially when used in application for which it is not prescribed, can lead to brittleness in the heat affected zone. Argon-oxygen blends with 1–2% oxygen are used for austenitic stainless steel where argon-CO can not be used due to required low content of carbon in the weld; the weld has a tough oxide coating and may require cleaning.\n\nHydrogen is used for welding of nickel and some stainless steels, especially thicker pieces. It improves the molten metal fluidity, and enhances cleanness of the surface. It is added to argon in amounts typically under 10%. It can be added to argon-carbon dioxide blends to counteract the oxidizing effects of carbon dioxide. Its addition narrows the arc and increases the arc temperature, leading to better weld penetration. In higher concentrations (up to 25% hydrogen), it may be used for welding conductive materials such as copper. However, it should not be used on steel, aluminum or magnesium because it can cause porosity and hydrogen embrittlement; its application is usually limited only to some stainless steels.\n\nNitric oxide addition serves to reduce production of ozone. It can also stabilize the arc when welding aluminium and high-alloyed stainless steel.\n\nOther gases can be used for special applications, pure or as blend additives; e.g. sulfur hexafluoride or dichlorodifluoromethane.\n\nSulfur hexafluoride can be added to shield gas for aluminium welding to bind hydrogen in the weld area to reduce weld porosity.\n\nDichlorodifluoromethane with argon can be used for protective atmosphere for melting of aluminium-lithium alloys. It reduces the content of hydrogen in the aluminium weld, preventing the associated porosity.\n\n\nThe applications of shielding gases are limited primarily by the cost of the gas, the cost of the equipment, and by the location of the welding. Some shielding gases, like argon, are expensive, limiting its use. The equipment used for the delivery of the gas is also an added cost, and as a result, processes like shielded metal arc welding, which require less expensive equipment, might be preferred in certain situations. Finally, because atmospheric movements can cause the dispersion of the shielding gas around the weld, welding processes that require shielding gases are often only done indoors, where the environment is stable and atmospheric gases can be effectively prevented from entering the weld area.\n\nThe desirable rate of gas flow depends primarily on weld geometry, speed, current, the type of gas, and the metal transfer mode being utilized. Welding flat surfaces requires higher flow than welding grooved materials, since the gas is dispersed more quickly. Faster welding speeds, in general, mean that more gas needs to be supplied to provide adequate coverage. Additionally, higher current requires greater flow, and generally, more helium is required to provide adequate coverage than argon. Perhaps most importantly, the four primary variations of GMAW have differing shielding gas flow requirements—for the small weld pools of the short circuiting and pulsed spray modes, about 10 L/min (20 ft/h) is generally suitable, while for globular transfer, around 15 L/min (30 ft/h) is preferred. The spray transfer variation normally requires more because of its higher heat input and thus larger weld pool; along the lines of 20–25 L/min (40–50 ft/h).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924644", "title": "Matron Stakes (Ireland)", "text": "Matron Stakes (Ireland)\n\nThe Matron Stakes is a Group 1 flat horse race in Ireland open to thoroughbred fillies and mares aged three years or older. It is run at Leopardstown over a distance of 1 mile (1,609 metres), and it is scheduled to take place each year in September.\n\nThe event was formerly known as the Gilltown Stud Stakes, and it used to be held at the Curragh. For a period it was classed at Group 3 level. It was renamed the Matron Stakes in the mid 1980s.\n\nThe race was transferred to Leopardstown in 2002. It was promoted to Group 2 status in 2003, and to Group 1 in 2004. It is now sponsored by Coolmore Stud, and its full title includes the name of Fastnet Rock, a Coolmore stallion. In 2014 it was moved back a week in September to become part of a new Irish Champions Weekend fixture.\n\nMost successful horse since 1980:\n\nLeading jockey since 1980 (3 wins):\n\nLeading trainer since 1980 (4 wins):\n\nLeading owner since 1986 (4 wins):\n\n Duntle finished first in 2012, but she was relegated to second place following a stewards' inquiry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924645", "title": "Tracy's Tiger", "text": "Tracy's Tiger\n\nTracy's Tiger is a short novel by William Saroyan. It was first published in 1951 by Doubleday, illustrated with drawings by Henry Koerner. It appears in the short story collection \"The William Saroyan Reader,\" first edition 1958, published by George Braziller, Inc.\n\nThe story of Tracy's Tiger was adapted into an original musical in two acts for the Oregon Shakespeare Festival's 2007 season. This world-premiere production, with books and lyrics by Linda Alper, Douglas Langworthy and Penny Metropulos and music and additional lyrics by Sterling Tinsley, was directed by Penny Metropolus. Produced in the New Theatre, the smallest of Oregon Shakespeare Festival's theaters, the musical met with a warm reception from critics and played to sold-out audiences for the entire season.\n\nThe Saroyan story was transplanted from New York to 1950s San Francisco for the musical. Twentysomething Tracy, whose jivey tiger is invisible to all but him (and the audience), falls instantly for Laura, who has her own invisible and very seductive tigress. But on his first visit to Laura's home, Tracy makes a possibly irremediable mistake. The tiger becomes visible and is hunted down on the streets of San Francisco by a compassionate police officer, under the orders of his bumbling chief. The moving finale is a scene of redemption and reincarnation of characters not seen since Act 1.\n\nTinsley, who also played the piano in this production, worked in a wide range of musical genres, matching the genre to the character.\n"}
{"id": "1924651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924651", "title": "Singles of the 90s", "text": "Singles of the 90s\n\nSingles of the 90s is a compilation album by Swedish pop music group, Ace of Base.\n\n\"Singles of the 90s\" was released on November 15, 1999 in Europe, Asia, and Africa. The band had begun work on their fourth studio album (\"Da Capo\"), when they were approached by their label to put out a greatest hits release. Jonas Berggren, the band's main composer, initially refused the offer, claiming the idea for a singles package was premature. In the end, the band relented and offered three songs titled \"Hallo Hallo\", \"C'est La Vie,\" and \"Love in December\", which was co-written by all four band members.\n\nAn American counterpart, \"Greatest Hits\", was released the following year on April 18, 2000, and included only \"C'est La Vie\" of the three new tracks. This release included a track error at the beginning of \"The Sign\" and sold poorly. \"Singles of the 90s\" was released in the US via iTunes in 2007 despite the \"Greatest Hits\" release.This album sold 2 million copies.\n"}
{"id": "1924653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924653", "title": "Ambasadori", "text": "Ambasadori\n\nAmbasadori were a Yugoslav schlager pop band from Sarajevo, SR Bosnia-Herzegovina, SFR Yugoslavia active from 1968 until 1980. \n\nThe band is most notable for its 1975 hit single \"\" as well as for representing Yugoslavia at the 1976 Eurovision Song Contest with \"Ne mogu skriti svoju bol\" — both times with on vocals. It is further notable for the 1977 hit single \"Dođi u pet do pet\", this time with Jasna Gospić as the vocalist. Additionally, the band gained retroactive notability for having two of its lead singers — Zdravko Čolić (sang with the band from 1969 until 1971) and Hari Varešanović (from 1979 until 1980) — later go on to Yugoslav pop stardom in their respective solo careers.\n\nAmbasadori were founded in Sarajevo in 1968 by two military brass band musicians and Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) ranked officers — keyboardist Robert Ivanović who had been transferred from Belgrade shortly prior to establishing the band and trombonist Srđan Stefanović. At the time of the band's launch, both Ivanović and Stefanović were additionally participating in the Sarajevo military orchestra.\n\nThey soon brought guitarist Slobodan \"Vuja\" Vujović, a Fojnica-born and Sarajevo-raised mechanical engineering student, into the band. In addition to his university studies, Vujović often hung around Dom Milicije (Police House) that provided free on-site instruments for the musically-inclined youth, which is where Ivanović and Stefanović met him and got him to join their group.\n\nAmbasadori obtained their first instruments and sound equipment by purchasing them from a travelling Bulgarian ensamble that had been performing at Sarajevo's Hotel Evropa. Still mostly a cover band at this stage, their repertoire centered around the 1960s rhythm & blues covers (Chicago, Otis Redding, Wilson Pickett, etc.) along with more covers of obligatory Yugoslav hits of the day and years past, and finally even a few original numbers written by the band members thrown into the mix. \n\nTheir very first performance took place in May 1969 in Sarajevo's Dom JNA (Yugoslav People's Army House). \n\nSoon after their debut performance, eighteen-year-old Zdravko Čolić, a fresh high school graduate, joined the band as its new vocalist. Impressed with Čolić's vocal range, clean intonation, and the overall ease with which he sang, the band decided to immediately start looking for as many live performance opportunities as possible. With young Čolić on vocals, Vujović on guitar, Ivanović on keyboards, Ivica Sindičić on saxophone, Srđan Stefanović on trombone, Slobodan Jerković on bass guitar, Vlatko Anković on trumpet, and Tihomir Določek on drums, they gigged around town in Sarajevo — in clubs like Trasa, FIS, and Sloga as well as the odd appearance in recently built Dom Mladih (Youth House), part of the new Skenderija complex. Most of these appearances were booked and arranged through local music enthusiast and promoter Želimir \"Čičak\" Altarac who practically became the band's unofficial manager. Over time, the group started getting more gig offers, which presented a problem since band leaders Ivanović and Stefanović as well as saxophonist Sindičić and drummer Določek, all of whom were also JNA officers, weren't available for many of them due to their army obligations, and those offers had to be declined.\n\nBy 1970, seeing their business opportunities limited by the strange setup within the band and further discouraged by the band's founders Ivanović and Stefanović enrolling in the Sarajevo Music Academy that took up a lot of their time and focus, Vujović and Čolić decided to step out and form a new group, Novi Ambasadori (New Ambassadors), bringing in drummer Perica Stojanović, organist Vlado Pravdić, saxophonist Andrej \"Lale\" Stefanović, and bassist Zlatko Hold. With Vujović now firmly established as the band's driving force and main songwriter, they looked to forge a new career course. Almost immediately, Vujović's Novi Ambasadori dropped the 'Novi' part, continuing on as just Ambasadori since the original band's founders Ivanović and Stefanović quickly gave up on protecting the name. \n\nWith an almost all new lineup, the band appeared at the 1970 annual schlager competition in Sarajevo where they finished in 7th place with \"Plačem za tvojim usnama\", a song that songwriter Zdenko Runjić claimed to have composed and officially signed his name under despite it being a blatant rip-off of The Tremeloes' \"Suddenly You Love Me\" (itself a cover of Riccardo Del Turco's \"Uno tranquillo\"). No one from the festival noticed the plagiarism and the band avoided controversy. The song would become the band's debut release — 7-inch (two-side) single \"Plačem za tvojim usnama\" / \"Zapjevaj\" released in 1971 by Beograd Disk label. The Vaš šlager sezone performance was further significant since it marked the band's first television appearance, exposing them to a much larger audience. One of the people in that TV audience was Kornelije Kovač, an already influential and established figure in Yugoslav music circles — former member of Indexi now fronting his own band Korni Grupa — who took note of young Čolić's \"clean tenor and good stage presence\"\n\nAmbasadori also expanded their repertoire so that in addition to R&B they now also began playing covers of Led Zeppelin, Blood, Sweat & Tears, Creedence Clearwater Revival, etc. In the summer of 1970, Ambasadori scored a month-long gig with Indexi in Dubrovnik, their first tour-like experience and a taste of life on the road.\n\nA year later, during summer 1971, Kovač finally met up with Čolić by coming to an Ambasadori gig in Mostar. He quickly managed to convince the young singer to move to Belgrade and join his Korni Grupa as replacement for Dado Topić.\n\nAfter Čolić left, eighteen-year-old became the new Ambasadori vocalist. Dervoz's only previous musical engagement of note had been singing for cover band Kodeksi.\n\nDervoz's first live appearance with Ambasadori came at the 1972 Skopje Festival where they performed the Kemal Monteno-written-and-composed song \"Sviraj mi, sviraj\". The same year, Jugoton released their 7-inch single \"Poslednja serenada\" / \"Idila jednog mačka\" / \"Hej, vi\" with Dervoz on vocals on each of the three tracks.\n\nIn 1973, in line with SFR Yugoslavia's new policy of decentralization, Diskoton music label was established in Sarajevo with Ambasadori bandleader Vujović appointed as its top executive. \n\nDuring fall 1973, Ambasadori went on a tour of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn early 1974, twenty-six-year-old Diskoton chief executive Vujović rejected a fledgling local band called Bijelo Dugme, a move that would go down in Yugoslav popular music history as an example of a bad judgement call after they signed a long-term deal with rival label Jugoton and immediately went on to nationwide fame with millions of records sold.\n\nIn 1975, Ambasadori scored a sizable hit with their entry at that year's festival — Kemal Monteno-written patriotic schlager song \"\", inspired by and dedicated to Yugoslav gastarbeiters leaving their homeland in search of expanded employment opportunities throughout Western Europe. Finishing fourth among the sixteen competitors, they additionally won the festival's interpretation award while the main prize went to Zdravko Čolić, their former singer who had recently gone solo, and his song \"Zvao sam je Emili\".\n\nAmbasadori represented SFR Yugoslavia at the 1976 Eurovision Song Contest in The Hague with song \"Ne mogu skriti svoju bol\" (written by Slobodan Đurasović and composed by Vujović), finishing second last among the 18 participating countries. Their disappointing finish caused a lot of negative reaction in the country and precipitated its 5-year withdrawal from the competition.\n\nFresh off their Eurovision disappointment, Ambasadori returned to the Vaš šlager sezone where they had had so much success a year earlier. This time performing Marina Tucaković-written and Nenad Pavlović-composed \"Usne imam da ga ljubim\", the song didn't get much attention at the festival, finishing seventh out of sixteen participants as the main prize went to Kemal Monteno and his Alija Hafizović-written love letter to the city of Sarajevo — \"Sarajevo, ljubavi moja\". Yugoslav press also reported ironic heckles of \"Bravo Hag\" ('Good job at the Hague') during Ambasadori performance as the poor Eurovision showing continued lingering over them.\n\nSoon after the 1976 Vaš šlager sezone appearance, Dervoz left the band. She was eventually replaced with sixteen-year-old Jasna Gospić.\n\nWith teenage Gospić whose only prior musical experience had been signing in a band called Plima with her brother Zoran, Ambasadori leader Vujović continued the practice of acquiring young and inexperienced vocalists. Still a high school student at Sarajevo's Second Gymnasium, Gospić's first appearance with Ambasadori took place at the 1977 Vaš šlager sezone with \"Dođi u pet do pet\". Composed by Vujović with lyrics by Slobodan Đurasović, the cheeky song turned out to be an unexpected Yugoslavia-wide hit despite failing to get much attention from the festival jury that awarded the top prize to Indexi's \"U jednim plavim očima\".\n\nRiding the unanticipated popularity of \"Dođi u pet do pet\", the band began touring a lot more throughout the country while also continuing to appear at various schlager festivals. However, the age gap between the band members and their teenage vocalist soon began causing issues. Gospić herself talked about it in later interviews, describing the strange dynamic between the band members — all of whom were married with wives and families — who saw the band as a job and their teenage vocalist, half their age, who was mostly concerned with hanging out with friends.\n\nOther Ambasadori members that came and went throughout the 1968–1970s include various musicians active on the Sarajevo music scene at the time and after, such as trombone player Srđan Stefanović, keyboard player Robert Ivanović, keyboard player Sinan Alimanovic, keyboard player Neven Pocrnjić, saxophone player Ivica Sindic, drummer \"Tica\", trumpet player Krešimir \"Keco\" Vlašić (ex Pro Arte), singer Ismeta Dervoz (ex Kodeksi), drummer Perica Stojanović (ex Jutro), organist Vlado Pravdić, bassist Ivica Vinković, bassist Zlatko Hold, saxophonist Andrej \"Lale\" Stefanović, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924654", "title": "2001 Pacific hurricane season", "text": "2001 Pacific hurricane season\n\nThe 2001 Pacific hurricane season was a near average season. The most notable storm that year was Hurricane Juliette, which caused devastating floods in Baja, California, leading to 12 fatalities and $400 million (2001 USD; $  USD) worth of damage. Two other storms were notable in their own rights, Hurricane Adolph became the strongest May Hurricane until 2014 when both records set by Adolph and Juliette were broken by Hurricanes Amanda and Odile. Tropical Storm Barbara passed just north of Hawaii, bringing minimal impact. \nThe season officially began on May 15, 2001 in the eastern Pacific, and on June 1, 2001 in the central Pacific, and lasted until November 30, 2001. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in this part of the Pacific Ocean. The first storm developed on May 25, while the last storm dissipated on November 3.\n\nThere were fifteen tropical storms in the eastern Pacific basin during the 2001 season. Of those, seven became hurricanes, of which two became major hurricanes by reaching Category 3 intensity or higher on the Saffir-Simpson hurricane wind scale (SSHS). Four tropical depressions formed and dissipated before reaching the intensity of a named storm. In the eastern Pacific proper, the season saw average activity in terms of the number of named systems, but the season also featured seven hurricanes and two major hurricanes, both totals a bit below long term averages. Overall, activity during the season was near normal. The first storm of the season, Hurricane Adolph, formed in late May, slightly ahead of schedule, and at the time was the strongest May hurricane on record. This season featured only one named storm in the month of June, followed by three in July and only one during August, including none during the first three weeks of August, a time that usually sees several storms. Activity picked up during the second half of the season, starting in September, when five named storms were observed, before decreasing to three and no storms in October and November respectively.\n\nOn average, two to three tropical storms or hurricanes hit Mexico every year on the Pacific side. However, only one tropical cyclone, Hurricane Juliette, made landfall along the coast of Mexico in 2001. In addition, Adolph, Dalila, Ivo, and Lorena came close enough to land to require tropical cyclone warnings and watches.\n\nHurricane Adolph originated from a tropical wave that left Africa on May 7, and was poorly organized. It was not until May 18 that the storm showed some signs of development in the Atlantic Ocean. On, May 22 the wave crossed over, and on May 25 it intensified into Tropical Depression One-E, about south-southwest of Acapulco, Mexico. The system, after drifting a while, intensified into Tropical Storm Adolph the next day. Later, on May 27 Adolph was upgraded to a hurricane. Intensifying into a hurricane, Adolph rapidly intensified, and reached to Category 4 strength on May 28. Two days after, Adolph went under an eyewall replacement cycle, and weakened to a hurricane, which is minimal category 3 intensity. This trend of weakening continued, and deteriorated into a tropical storm. Passing over cooler waters, and stable air, Adolph dissipated on June 1.\n\nA tropical wave that moved off the coast of Africa on June 1. The wave eventually entered the Pacific Ocean on June 10, though no further organization occurred until June 18. The system slowly organized further over the next two days, and became Tropical Depression Two-E early on June 20. Although the depression remained poorly organized, it was upgraded to Tropical Storm Barbara. At 1200 UTC on June 21, the storm attained its peak intensity with maximum sustained winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure of . Shortly thereafter, Barbara began encountering unfavorable conditions, such higher wind shear and cooler sea surface temperatures.\n\nIt weakened to a tropical depression at 1800 UTC on June 26, while crossing 140°W into the Central Pacific Hurricane Center's area of responsibility. The depression passed north of the Hawaiian Islands on June 25, then weakened to an easterly wave to the northwest of Kauai on June 26. The remnants of Barbara continued west-northwest until being absorbed by a frontal zone near the International Dateline on June 30. Barbara was the first and only tropical cyclone in the Central Pacific during the month of June. \n\nA tropical wave that crossed Central America and emerged into the eastern Pacific basin on July 6.The wave moved slowly westward from July 6 – July 10. On July 10, the convective pattern began to show signs of organization about south of Acapulco, Mexico, and the system received its first Dvorak satellite classification. Over the next two days, the system moved generally west-northwestward as multiple low-level circulations developed within a broad area of low pressure. During this period, development of the disturbance was hindered by southerly shear from an upper-level trough to the west of the disturbance that caused the system to become elongated north-south. On July 12, the upper trough cut off southwest of the disturbance and the organization improved. By early on July 13, a single low-level circulation center had become established and it is estimated that a tropical depression formed at southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico.\n\nTropical Depression Three-E moved west-northwestward, and quickly became Tropical Storm Cosme on July 13, about south of Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. The forward motion then slowed over the next 12 hours. Cosme's development was hindered by easterly shear; its peak intensity of was reached late on July 13. By early on July 14, convection was limited and well removed from the center. Cosme weakened back to a tropical depression, when it was about southwest of Cabo San Lucas. Cosme produced no more significant convection after about on July 15, at which point the tropical cyclone became a non-convective low center. The low then moved slowly westward until it dissipated on July 18 about west-southwest of Cabo San Lucas, Mexico.\n\nErick apparently formed from a poorly defined tropical wave that traveled westward across the tropical Atlantic and reached the eastern North Pacific on July 16. The thunderstorm activity associated with the wave increased on July 18 when the disturbance was centered about south of the southern tip of Baja California. Thereafter, deep convection gradually developed around a large cyclonic gyre which accompanied the wave.\n\nIt was not until July 20 that a well-defined center of circulation formed and satellite intensity estimates supported tropical depression status. Moving on a general west-northwest track, the system became a tropical storm and reached maximum winds of and 1001 mbar (hPa; 29.56 inHg) minimum pressure July 22. It then moved over relatively cooler waters and weakened as the deep convection quickly vanished. By July 24, it was just a non-convective and dissipating swirl of low clouds, although some showers re-developed intermittently.\n\nDalila's origin is a tropical wave that moved westward from Africa and over the eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean on July 10. It crossed northern South America and Central America on the July 15 through July 17 accompanied by vigorous thunderstorm activity, and then entered the Pacific basin on July 18 as an organized area of disturbed weather. Early on July 21, the system acquired a low-level circulation and became Tropical Depression Five-E, about south of the Gulf of Tehuantepec. Moving west-northwestward, it became Tropical Storm Dalila with winds 12 hours later.\n\nDalila's track was toward the west-northwest at forward speeds between five and . The direction of motion was rather steady, varying between 285 and 300 degrees heading. This is attributed to a persistent subtropical ridge of high pressure located north of the cyclone. The center reached its point of closest approach to the coast of Mexico between Acapulco and Manzanillo on the July 22 and July 23, when it came within about of the coast.\n\nWith warm sea surface temperatures and minimal vertical shear, the winds increased from on July 22 and July 23. The wind speed briefly reached an estimated on July 24, although Dalila quickly weakened back to a strong tropical storm. The storm passed directly over Socorro Island on July 25. By July 27, most of the associated deep convection dissipated as the storm moved over colder water. Reduced to a swirl of low clouds, Dalila dissipated as a tropical cyclone on July 28, while located about west of the southern tip of Baja California.\n\nThe origins of the sixth tropical depression of the season possibly developed from a westward moving tropical wave, which previously crossed the Atlantic and Caribbean. At 12:00 UTC on August 22, Tropical Depression Six-E developed. Further intensification was deemed unlikely by the National Hurricane Center, as the depression would soon enter a region of sea surface temperatures less than 77 °F (25 °C). In addition to lowering sea surface temperatures, the system began to be affected by southerly wind shear, which displaced the mid-level circulation and deep convection from the low-level circulation. The National Hurricane Center later noted the disorganized state of the tropical depression as being only \"... a swirl of low clouds with a few showers to the north and northeast of the center\". It became elongated, and dissipated at 06:00 UTC on August 24. \n\nA tropical wave emerged into the Atlantic Ocean on August 11 and spawned Atlantic Tropical Storm Chantal three days later. After tracking westward toward the Yucatán Peninsula, the southern portion of the tropical wave split and entered the Pacific Ocean on August 21 after crossing Central America. The system initially failed to organize, although there was a closed circulation by August 23. The low-level circulation began to become well-defined as it moved away from Mexico on August 26, while convection consolidated near the center. Later that day, it was classified as Tropical Depression Seven-E. Conditions appeared very favorable for development, and after banding features increased, the system was upgraded to Tropical Storm Flossie later on August 26. While steering currents weakened, Flossie began to develop a cloud-filled eye on August 27, and was upgraded to a hurricane based on that and wind estimates of 75 mph (120 km/h).\n\nBy early on August 29, further intensification was not expected, but Flossie suddenly deepened to a Category 2 hurricane. After winds reached 105 mph (165 km/h) and the barometric pressure fell to , Flossie entered a region with sea surface temperatures less than 79 °F (26 °C). Flossie weakened quickly, and was only a minimal hurricane 24 hours after peak intensity, which is when the National Hurricane Center noted an ill-define eye. Early on August 30, Flossie weakened to a tropical storm. On September 1, Flossie was downgraded to a tropical depression, and after becoming devoid of deep convection, the system degenerated into a remnant low on September 2. The remnants of Flossie moved inland over Baja California, eventually entering the southwestern region of the United States and dissipating. The remnants caused flash flooding in San Diego and Riverside counties in California, dropping 2 in (50.8 mm) of rain in one hour. A strong downdraft knocked a tree onto a house. In addition, four people were struck by lightning, two of them fatally. The total cost of damage caused by Flossie's remnants was $35,000 (2001 USD).\n\nA tropical wave emerged into the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Africa between August 14 and August 15. The northern part of the wave developed into Tropical Storm Dean on August 22, while the remaining portions entered the Pacific on August 24. The wave organized slowly and did not develop into a tropical depression until September 4. Situated roughly 850 mi (1,370 km) southwest of Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, the system quickly intensified and became a tropical storm six hours later. By early on September 5, banding features became well-defined; the NHC simultaneously noted the possibility for interaction between Tropical Storm Gil and Tropical Depression Nine-E (later Tropical Storm Henriette), which was 865 mi (1,390 km) to the east-northeast. Although outflow from Henriette was predicted to slow or prevent intensification, Gil managed to become a hurricane early on September 6. Late on September 6, Gil intensified into a Category 2 hurricane, peaking with maximum sustained winds of 100 mph (155 km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure of .\n\nGil curved northwestward on September 6 and began to become affected by northeasterly outflow associated with Henriette. By September 7, the storm became noticeably disorganized and weakened to a Category 1 hurricane. After weakening to a Category 1, Gil accelerated northward around the circulation of Henriette. Further shearing from Henriette occurred, and early on September 8, the NHC noted that the center of Gil was near the edge of the associated deep convection. After over a region with sea surface temperatures near 73 °F (23 °C), Gil rapidly weakened, and fell to tropical storm intensity six hours later. Gil continued to weaken and was downgraded to a tropical depression early on September 9. Gil eventually absorbed the remnants of Henriette, but dissipated by 00:00 UTC on September 10 while about east of the Hawaiian islands .\n\nA tropical wave crossed over Central America between August 28 and August 29. While south of Acapulco, it began showing signs of development. Visible satellite images early on September 4 revealed a partially exposed, but well defined low-level circulation. While deep convection was confined to the southwestern half of the circulation, the convection was close enough to the center for the system to be classified as Tropical Depression Nine-E on September 4, about west-southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico. Early on September 5, as the depression headed westward, the separation between the circulation center and the deep convection decreased. Several hours later, the depression intensified into Tropical Storm Henriette. The cyclone slowly became better organized on September 6, with the convective pattern becoming more symmetric, while the intensity increase to .\n\nHenriette turned to the northwest and accelerated somewhat as it began to feel the influence of Hurricane Gil, then located only about 285 mi (460 km) to the southwest. Upper-level easterly flow, which was still evident over the cyclone early on September 6, lessened and a more favorable outflow pattern began to develop. Convective banding near the center became better defined, and Henriette reached its peak intensity of on September 7. The cyclone began weakening due to cold waters and its proximity to Gil. A Fujiwhara interaction between Henriette and Gil occurred on September 8. Henriette soon dissipated after losing its closed low-level circulation, as evidenced by low-cloud trajectories.\n\nIvo formed from a large tropical wave that moved off the African coast on August 26. The wave was accompanied by a large cyclonic rotation at the low to middle levels and numerous thunderstorms when it entered the eastern Atlantic. On August 28, the wave spawned a northward-moving vortex in the eastern Atlantic, but the wave's southern portion continued westward with very limited convective activity. Once the wave reached the western Caribbean Sea on September 5, the shower activity increased and the whole system continued slowly westward over Central America. The cloud pattern gradually became better organized and by September 9, satellite images showed a low to middle level circulation centered near Acapulco, Mexico. The next day, a portion of the system moved over water and it became a tropical depression about south-southwest of Acapulco on September 10.\n\nThe center of the depression moved slowly west and west-northwestward with its circulation hugging the southwest coast of Mexico. There was moderate easterly shear over the depression as indicated by the location of the convection to the west of the center. Satellite images and a report from a ship indicated that the depression reached tropical storm status by 0600 UTC September 11. Thereafter, there was only slight strengthening and Ivo reached its maximum intensity of and an estimated minimum pressure of 997 mbar (hPa; 29.44 inHg) on September 12. The tropical storm moved toward the northwest and then west over increasingly cooler waters, and gradually weakened. It became a low pressure system devoid of convection by the end of September 14.\n\nTropical Depression One-C formed on September 11 more than 400 mi (644 km) southeast of the Island of Hawaii. The system moved west northwestward to 15°N 153°W by September 11, and then southwestward shortly thereafter. The system was poorly organized, and the convection of Tropical Depression One-C dissipated later on September 11. Having only lasted 12 hours as a depression; Tropical Depression One-C never reached tropical storm strength.\nAn area of disturbed weather associated with the remnants of Atlantic Tropical Depression Nine organized directly into Tropical Storm Juliette on September 21. Sustained intensification began the next day. Juliette eventually peaked as a Category 4 hurricane with a central pressure of 923 mbar (hPa; 27.26 inHg), which made it the fifth-most intense Pacific hurricane at the time. Juliette turned north and weakened and made landfall as a minimal hurricane. Juliette's remnants hung on for a few more days until they dissipated on October 3.\n\nJuliette dumped heavy rains on the Baja California Peninsula and in Sonora, where it caused two deaths. Its effects were especially hard on Cabo San Lucas, Baja California Sur, which was cut off from the outside world for a few days. The remnants of Juliette moved into the state of California, where they caused thunderstorms, rain, and some downed power lines. The total estimated cost of damage was $400 million (2001 USD; $ 2020 USD). \n\nA tropical wave that led to the formation Atlantic Hurricane Felix over the eastern Atlantic on September 7 also seems to have produced Kiko. This wave moved westward at low latitudes, crossing northern South America on September 13 – September 14 and Central America on September 15 and September 16. By September 17, cloudiness and showers increased near the Gulf of Tehuantepec. The area of disturbed weather moved westward for the next few days, without much increase in organization. On September 21, the system's cloud pattern became more consolidated, and curved bands of showers were evident. It is estimated that Tropical Depression Twelve-E had formed that day, at which time it was centered about southwest of the southern tip of Baja California.\n\nAfter forming, the system, which was located in an environment of easterly vertical shear, strengthened slowly. By September 22 the organization of the cloud pattern improved to the extent that tropical storm strength was estimated to have been reached. Kiko turned from a northwestward to a west-northwestward heading that day. Although some easterly shear continued to affect the system, very deep convection persisted near the center, and based on Dvorak intensity estimates, Kiko strengthened into a hurricane around September 23. A little later on September 23, deep convection decreased in coverage and intensity and Kiko weakened back to a tropical storm.\n\nThe system continued to lose intensity on September 24, at least in part due to the entrainment of more stable air at low levels. Kiko weakened to a tropical depression on September 25, by which time southwesterly shear also became prevalent. Later on September 25, the cyclone degenerated into a westward-moving swirl of low clouds with little or no deep convection. Kiko's remnant low persisted and continued moving generally westward for several more days with intermittent, minor occurrences of deep convection within the circulation. It was finally absorbed into a frontal system to the northeast of the Hawaiian Islands on October 1.\n\nTropical Depression Two-C formed near 10°N 147.4°W on September 22, southwest of Tropical Storm Kiko (in the East Pacific). Throughout September 23, Tropical Depression Two-C remained a poorly organized system that slowly moved west-northwestward. A slight increase in convection became apparent on September 24, and was followed by a period of consistent thunderstorm activity near the circulation center. Tropical Depression Two-C continued in the west-northwest direction, but weakened by September 25.\n\nThe tropical wave that eventually developed into Lorena moved off the west coast of Africa on September 13. The poorly defined wave tracked rapidly westward across the Atlantic for more than a week. There was little or no thunderstorm activity associated with the wave until it moved across Central America on September 27. Significant deep convection finally developed on September 29 and satellite classifications began on September 30 when the system was located about south of Acapulco, Mexico. The wave possessed a well-defined closed low-level circulation at that time.\n\nConvection steadily increased and banding features developed during the day on October 1. Satellite intensity estimates indicate the system became Tropical Depression Thirteen-E at October 2. Low-level circulation had tightened up considerably and satellite intensity estimates indicated the depression had strengthened into Tropical Storm Lorena about south-southwest of Acapulco. Lorena tracked steadily west-northwestward at eight to the remainder of the day and gradually turned toward the northwest early on October 3. The peak intensity of occurred later that day as Lorena took a more northerly track when it was located about southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico.\n\nBy October 4, the forward speed of Tropical Storm Lorena had decreased to around seven to nine mph (11 to 14 km/h) and strong upper-level southwesterly shear began to adversely affect the cyclone. Lorena weakened to a tropical depression and dissipated into a non-convective low later that day about southwest of Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. The remnant low-level cloud circulation remained offshore and persisted for another day or so before completely dissipating just west of Cabo Corrientes, Mexico.\n\nTropical Depression Fourteen-E developed from a small swirl of low clouds that was first observed along the Intertropical Convergence Zone well to the south-southwest of Baja California on September 30. Little development occurred until October 3, when the system began to generate more persistent deep convection. While the system was located about southwest of the southern tip of Baja California, the NHC began to classify it as Tropical Depression Fourteen-E. Although it appeared that wind shear was at initially predicted to remain at a favorable level, an upper-level low to the southwest of the depression generated wind shear greater than expected, and convection significantly weakened only hours later. Despite significant effects from wind shear, the depression was still forecast to intensify into a tropical storm. Later that day, the low-level center of the depression became more difficult to locate on satellite images, and the location of the poorly defined center was estimated. Convection significantly decreased again early on October 4, and the depression dissipated southwest of the southern tip of Baja California. The remnant low cloud swirl continued westward for another 24–36 hours before dissipating completely.\n\nTropical Storm Manuel formed from the remnants of Hurricane Iris from the Atlantic Basin. The core circulation of Iris had dissipated over the mountains of eastern Mexico, while new convection was developing a short distance away over the waters of the Pacific. This area became better organized over the next 18 hours and became Tropical Depression Fifteen-E at October 10, about south-southeast of Acapulco, Mexico. The depression moved at 15–16 mph (24–26 km/h), first westward and then west-northwestward. An upper-level anticyclone centered over southern Mexico was producing some easterly shear in the environment of the depression, but when this shear lessened the system became Tropical Storm Manuel on October 11, about south-southwest of Zihuatanejo, Mexico. An estimated initial peak intensity of was reached that day when the first clear banding features developed. However, the banding was short-lived, deep convection diminished, and satellite microwave imagery early on October 12 suggested that the circulation was becoming elongated. Wind shear returned, this time from the northwest, and Manuel turned to a west-southwesterly track and slowed. By October 12, Manuel had weakened to a tropical depression.\n\nManuel remained a disorganized depression for the next two and a half days. It continued moving to the west-southwest, but slowed to a drift as a mid-level ridge to the north of the cyclone gradually weakened. An upper-level trough dug southward to the west of Manuel early on October 15, and Manuel began to move to the north-northwest. Convection redeveloped near the center and Manuel regained tropical storm strength on October 15 about south-southwest of Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. Wind shear decreased and Manuel strengthened, reaching its peak intensity of winds, and a pressure of 997 mbar (hPa; 29.44 inHg) on October 16 about southwest of Cabo San Lucas. By this point, water temperatures under the cyclone were decreasing and shear, this time from the southwest, was increasing. Manuel began to weaken while moving to the west-northwest and northwest. It became a depression at October 17 about west-southwest of Cabo San Lucas, and dissipated to a non-convective low shortly after October 18. The remnant low moved slowly westward for a couple of days over cool waters before its circulation dissipated completely.\n\nNarda developed from a westward moving tropical wave that crossed Dakar, Senegal around the October 3. The wave became convectively active after it crossed Central America when it produced a large burst of convection in the Bay of Campeche on the October 15. The southern portion of the wave continued westward over the Pacific waters south of Mexico and under favorable upper-level winds, it began to acquire banding features and several centers of circulation. The system finally consolidated and developed one center at October 20. It became a tropical depression about southwest of Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. Moving on a west-northwest track, it intensified and reached tropical storm status later that day. The cloud pattern continued to become better organized and visible satellite imagery showed an intermittent eye feature, and it is estimated that Narda became a hurricane at October 21. Narda peak's intensity of 980 mbar (hPa; 28.94 inHg) occurred on October 22. Thereafter, a gradual weakening began and strong shear took a toll on Narda. The tropical cyclone became a tight swirl of low clouds with intermittent convection on October 24, as it moved westward steered by the low-level flow and crossing 140°W over the Central Pacific area of responsibility. It then continued westward as a tropical depression until dissipation.\n\nThe final tropical depression of the season likely developed from a weak tropical wave that moved westward across Central America on October 22. Following an area in convection on October 27 and the formation of a low-level circulation, the system was declared a tropical depression at 00:00 UTC on October 31, while centered about southwest of the southern tip of Baja California. The depression was initially affected by easterly upper-level winds and outflow was restricted on the eastern quadrant. The depression intensified and was upgraded to Tropical Storm Octave six hours after forming. Although cloud tops warmed on October 31, Octave organized further, and the NHC noted that the storm began to resemble a hurricane early on November 1. Shortly thereafter, no significant intensification was predicted, as the cloud pattern was becoming elongated, vertical wind shear would soon increase, and Octave would soon entering a region of decreasing sea surface temperatures. However, Octave re-organized and an eye feature began developing later on November 1.\n\nThe storm was upgraded to a hurricane after a ragged eye developed and T-numbers reached 4.0 on the Dvorak Scale. Early on November 2, Octave attained its peak intensity with maximum sustained winds of 85 mph (140 km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure of 980 mbar (hPa; 28.94 inHg). Wind shear began to increase, while sea surface temperatures were decreasing, causing the low-level circulation to become gradually displaced from the associated deep convection. However, the storm remained a hurricane until 18:00 UTC on November 2. By early on November 3, only minimal deep convection was associated with Octave. The NHC downgraded the system to a tropical depression later that day. Deep convection associated with Octave remained minimal, and the system had degenerated into a remnant low located about west-southwest of the southern tip of Baja California at 00:00 UTC on November 4.\nThe following names were used for named storms that formed in the northeast Pacific in 2001. The names not retired from this list were used again in the 2007 Pacific hurricane season. This is the same list used for the 1995 season except for Ivo, which replaced Ismael. A storm was named Ivo for the first time in 2001. Names that were not assigned are marked in gray.\n\nFor storms that form in the Central Pacific Hurricane Center's area of responsibility, encompassing the area between 140 degrees west and the International Date Line, all names are used in a series of four rotating lists. The next four names that were slated for use in 2001 are shown below, however none of them were of them were used.\n\nAfter the season had begun the names Adolph and Israel (the original replacement for Ismael) were retired for political considerations, after a row brewed over the use of their names.\n\nThis is a table of all the storms that have formed in the 2001 Pacific hurricane season. It includes their duration, names, landfall(s), denoted in parentheses, damages, and death totals. Deaths in parentheses are additional and indirect (an example of an indirect death would be a traffic accident), but were still related to that storm. Damage and deaths include totals while the storm was extratropical, a wave, or a low, and all the damage figures are in 2001 USD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924669", "title": "Brian Kenny (sportscaster)", "text": "Brian Kenny (sportscaster)\n\nBrian Kenny (born October 18, 1963 in New York City) is a studio host for MLB Network and a boxing play by play announcer for Fox Sports. The television face of sabermetrics and baseball analytics, he is the host of the weekday program \"MLB Now\", known as “the show for the thinking fan\". He previously worked for ESPN, and had his own show on ESPN Radio named \"The Brian Kenny Show\". One of the most respected baseball historians and broadcasters in the country, he is also the host of the Baseball Hall of Fame Induction Ceremonies in Cooperstown, New York. \n\nKenny graduated Magna Cum Laude from New York Institute of Technology in Old Westbury, NY in 1985. He also attended St. John's University (New York City) from 1981-1982. In college, Kenny began his broadcasting career as a reporter for \"LI News Tonight,\" New York Tech’s long-time daily news program. In May 1985, he joined WLIG, TV 55 Long Island as a reporter. He was named the station’s Sports Director in September in 1985, beginning his sportscasting career. In August 1986, Kenny was named Sports Director at WTZA-TV (later WRNN-TV) in Kingston, NY. He would remain at the station until 1997, winning 11 New York State Broadcasters Awards and 6 Associated Press Awards for his coverage of local sports.\n\nAfter joining ESPN in 1997, Kenny anchored the 6:00 pm SportsCenter, and was the host of \"Friday Night Fights\" on ESPN2. On Friday Night Fights, he was known for his heated debates with some of the best boxers in the world, particularly Floyd Mayweather. He also hosted Baseball Tonight,\"The Hot List\" on ESPNEWS, plus \"Classic Ringside\" and \"The Top 5 Reasons You Can't Blame...\" on ESPN Classic.\n\nIn 2005, he hosted a special series called \"Ringside\". It runs three to six hours long an episode and featured on each episode one great boxer.\n\nKenny appears as himself in the 2006 film \"Rocky Balboa\" and in the 2007 film \"Resurrecting the Champ,\" and also served with fellow ESPN personality John Saunders as the \"announcing team\" for a home demolition during an episode of \"\" that aired on November 2, 2008. (The episode involved a project in which the \"Extreme Makeover\" team built a new home and gym for a family that operated a youth boxing gym in Geneva, New York).\n\nPrior to hosting \"The Brian Kenny Show\" on ESPN Radio, he co-hosted \"Kellerman and Kenny\" with Max Kellerman on ESPN Radio in New York City.\n\nKenny announced on the August 31, 2011 edition of \"The Brian Kenny Show\" that he was leaving ESPN to become an anchor with MLB Network. His final show was on September 2, 2011, with the 6 p.m. edition of SportsCenter alongside Jonathan Coachman. Kenny made his debut on MLB Tonight on September 19, 2011. \n\nSince 2013, Kenny has been the host of \"MLB Now\" on MLB Network. Kenny also appears on MLB Network's flagship program \"MLB Tonight\", the offseason countdown series \"Top 10 Right Now!,\" and on-site coverage of the All-Star Game and World Series.\n\nSince 2017, Kenny has served as the Master of Ceremonies for the Baseball Hall of Fame induction.\n\nHis first book, \"Ahead of the Curve: Inside the Baseball Revolution\", was published in 2016 by Simon and Schuster and won the National SABR Research Award in 2017.\n\nKenny was previously the boxing host and blow-by-blow announcer for Showtime Championship Boxing, Fox Sports, and Top Rank. He also hosted \"The Brian Kenny Show\" on NBC Sports Radio. \n\nKenny appeared as himself in the movie \"Rocky Balboa\" (2006) and \"Resurrecting the Champ\" (2007), while appearing in the television shows \"The Dead Zone\" (2003) and \"Brockmire\" (2016).\n\nBrian won a National Sports Emmy for \"Baseball Tonight\" in 2003, was the 2004 Sports Illustrated Media Personality of the Year and the recipient of the 2005 Sam Taub Award for excellence in boxing broadcasting..\n\nKenny is married to the former Nicole Jacqueline Desy. They have five children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924672", "title": "Denise Drysdale", "text": "Denise Drysdale\n\nDenise Anne Christina Drysdale (born 5 December 1948) is an Australian twice-awarded Gold Logie-winning television presenter, variety entertainer, actress, singer, dancer and comedian living in the Gold Coast. She is often affectionately known as \"Ding Dong\", a nickname invented by fellow performer Ernie Sigley. She is currently a co-host of the morning show \"Studio 10\".\n\nBorn in the Melbourne suburb of Moorabbin, Drysdale and her family moved to Port Melbourne when she was three-and-a-half, where her parents ran the Fountain Inn Hotel. They lived there for eleven years, during which time Drysdale attended Kilbride Ladies Convent, South Melbourne.\n\nDrysdale's career began soon after the move to Port Melbourne. Referring to the (then) regulations for public bars to cease serving alcohol at 6pm, she observed:\n\n\"During that time it was the 6 o'clock swill, and Mum didn't want her little girl seeing all that drinking, so she sent me to dancing, to May Downs. May Downs was an amazing woman. She taught us 150% is what you gave in any performance, or don't bother. And of course, that's got me into strife over the years.\"\nBy the age of six, Drysdale had won a number of dancing competitions.\n\nAt about ten years of age, she began her television career with GTV9 in Melbourne, working in the junior ballet on the \"Tarax Show\". She was later sacked when she gained weight and developed breasts.\n\n\"We'd been there about a year and a bit, and on the holidays I had put on weight, but not much, and as you know, if you put someone in a nice tutu, they don't have bosoms—they have very flat chests. Pete Smith always said, \"You grew boobs, they had to get rid of you.\" They couldn't do it today. And I've suffered to this day. I still stand on the scales six times a day to check whether I've put on half a pound or a pound.\"\n\nPhotographed at the time by a Channel Nine photographer, Drysdale went on to win the annual Girl of the Year Award with \"Everybody's\" in 1964.\n\nAt age seventeen, Drysdale joined the new show \"Kommotion\" as a go-go girl, becoming Melbourne's first go-go dancer.\n\nDrysdale was invited to tour Australia with Ray Brown & the Whispers. She was then offered a recording contract and appeared in 26 episodes of the ABC's \"Dig We Must\".\n\nIn the 1960s, Drysdale appeared as a dancer on \"In Melbourne Tonight\". In 1966, she performed on \"The Go!! Show\", and was voted third-most-popular female vocalist by the readers of \"Go-Set\". This popularity led to an invitation to perform for the troops in Vietnam for three weeks in 1967, along with Patti Newton, the Strangers, and Doug Owen. In 1969, she went to the Far East to entertain American troops.\n\nIn 1974, she became Ernie Sigley's barrel girl on \"The Ernie Sigley Show\". It was here she gained the nickname \"Ding Dong\". In 1975, Drysdale and Sigley released a single \"Paula\" as a duet, which reached #1 on the charts, Later that year she won the TV Week Gold Logie for the Most Popular Female Personality on Australian TV, and won her second Gold Logie the following year. In the same period, she also won consecutive Silver Logies.\n\nDrysdale has appeared on numerous television shows, including \"The Norman Gunston Show\", \"Celebrity Squares\", \"Young Talent Time\", \"Countdown\", \"Division 4\", \"Homicide\", \"Bellbird\" and \"Celebrity Name Game\". She has also worked in regional television in Victoria including guest appearances on BTV-6 Ballarat and hosting a morning magazine show on GLV-8 in the 1980s. As an actress, she has appeared in the movies \"The Last of the Knucklemen\", \"Snapshot\", and \"Blowing Hot and Cold\".\n\nOn stage, she has appeared in plays and musicals, including \"Salad Days\", \"Grease\", \"The Barry Crocker Show\", \"Two Gentlemen of Verona\" and \"Hello, Dolly!\" in 1994. She also spent two years in Sydney appearing on television shows \"Weekend Magazine\" and \"Beauty and the Beast\".\n\nIn 1989, Drysdale joined Ernie Sigley to host \"In Melbourne Today\", and in 1991 began a Sydney version of the show \"In Sydney Today\". The two programs later merged to a single program: \"Ernie And Denise\". Also in 1989, she was asked to fill in on \"Hey Hey It's Saturday\" due to Jacki MacDonald being ill and subsequently leaving. Drysdale stayed with the show for over a year before leaving due to ongoing rumours of a feud between her and host Daryl Somers. Over the years both have denied such rumours. In 1992, Drysdale returned to host an episode of \"Hey Hey It's Saturday\" in Somers' absence. She also returned for one of the reunion shows in 2009.\n\nIn the late 1990s Drysdale appeared in the reboot of \"IMT\" on the Nine Network.\n\nIn 1998, she joined the Seven Network to present her own show for the first time, called \"Denise\". This program lasted four seasons.\n\nIn 2005, Channel 9 chose Drysdale as one of the 50 most important people on television for the last 50 years.\n\nIn 2008, she released an album entitled \"What a Wonderful World\". The album contains a remake of the single \"Hey Paula\". The new version features Mark Trevorrow.\n\nOn 7 October 2009 she made an appearance in the second of the \"Hey Hey It's Saturday\" reunion specials.\n\nIn 2010, Drysdale joined Network Ten's new morning show \"The Circle\" alongside Yumi Stynes, Chrissie Swan and Gorgi Coghlan as host. She remained on the show for two seasons, leaving at the end of the 2011 season. She reappeared as a special guest on the final episode in 2013.\n\nDrysdale regularly performed around Australia on the club circuit, often with her television partner, Ernie Sigley.\n\nIt was announced Drysdale would join as permanent co-host of \"Studio 10\" in 2016 after appearing as a regular fill-in presenter, sharing the position with Ita Buttrose.\n\nIn June 2018, Drysdale joined the cast of \"Neighbours\" as Nance Sluggett. She made her first appearance on 3 October 2018.\n\nDrysdale has won two Gold Logie awards for \"Most Popular Female Personality\" on Australian television.\n\nIn January 2008, Drysdale was awarded the 'Australia Day Citizen of the Year' award by Baw Baw Shire.\n\nIn 1998, as part of Melbourne's Moomba Festival, Drysdale was crowned 'Moomba Monarch'.\n\nIn 2018, Drysdale was honoured by Australia Post with her portrait featuring on a special collection of post stamps issued as part of \"The Legends of Television\" series.\n\nDrysdale has two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924674", "title": "Da Capo (Ace of Base album)", "text": "Da Capo (Ace of Base album)\n\nDa Capo is the fourth studio album released by Swedish pop group Ace of Base. It was released in 2002 in Europe (on Edel-Mega/Universal) and Japan (on Toshiba EMI with a different cover and additional tracks).\n\nThe album is named for the musical term \"da capo\", meaning \"back to the beginning.\" It was intended to be a return to the band's initial sound.\n\nThe album was initially slated for a summer 2000 release, but problems with Ace of Base's record labels caused it to be delayed for another year. The band's record label demanded that many of the album's songs be reworked with additional producers. Ultimately, \"Da Capo\" came out at the end of September 2002, and resulted in very low album sales in many European territories. The album was planned to be released in the United States in 2003, but no release surfaced.\n\nThe minimal promotion was handled by two out of the four band members, Jenny Berggren and Ulf Ekberg. Jonas Berggren wanted to stay at home with his two children and Malin Berggren only attended one performance in Germany in 2002. During promotion Jenny and Ulf visited Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Germany, Poland and Austria.\n\nIn an interview, Ulf said that the group would release the album in the United States, with the songs being more acoustic. However, it never came out in America or Australia, although it has recently become available on iTunes. Polydor Records gave it a \"soft release\" in the UK on 21 October 2002 with no promotion nor any radio singles as Polydor believed that the band were no longer relevant to the British music scene. The album was released with Copy Control protection in some regions.\n\nThe title track was later featured on Dance Dance Revolution Supernova in 2006. As of 2008, \"Da Capo\" has sold over 600,000 copies, far fewer than Ace of Base's earlier releases.\n\nThis is the last studio album with the original lineup to date.\n\n\n\n\nThe DVD contains all official Ace of Base videos released up to that point except \"Travel to Romantis\" and the acoustic U.S. version of \"Lucky Love\". It also includes the standard edition Da Capo album in 5.1 Surround Sound, a photo gallery, discography, and biographies in English and German.\n"}
{"id": "1924675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924675", "title": "Seid Memić Vajta", "text": "Seid Memić Vajta\n\nSeid Memić, known by his stage name Vajta, (born 8 March 1950, in Travnik, Bosnia and Herzegovina) is a Bosnian singer and the vocalist for the Yugoslav rock band Teška industrija (\"Heavy Industry\").\n\nIn 1973, Vajta moved to Sarajevo and that is when his music career begins in earnest. From 1975 to 1976 he was a vocalist for Teška Industrija, who enjoyed great commercial success throughout the Balkan countries but later dissolved.\n\nSoon, though, Vajta left the band to start a career as a pop singer. In the years from 1979-85, the albums \"Zlatna Ribica\" (Goldfish), \"Vajta 2 Ponoćni valcer\" (Midnight Waltz), \"Tebi pjevam\" (Singing to You) and \"Kad bulbuli pjevaju\" (When Bulbuls Sing) brought him to the heights of popularity throughout former Yugoslavia and made him a household name.\n\nHe became internationally known in the 1981 Eurovision Song Contest during which he represented Yugoslavia. He achieved 15th place for Yugoslavia with the song \"Lejla\", which became a hit and still is throughout the Balkan countries.\n\nHe hosted \"Nedeljni zabavnik\" kids programme in the 1980s.\n\nWith the breakout of the Bosnian war, he moved to Germany, settling in Hamburg, where he lives today.\n\nIn early 2007, Teška Industrija reunited and released a new album.\n\nIn 2009, Vajta attained popularity by participating in the Croatian reality TV show \"Farma\", where he was expelled in the 6th duel on April 10.\n"}
{"id": "1924677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924677", "title": "Patrick O'Meara", "text": "Patrick O'Meara\n\nProfessor Patrick O'Meara (born 8 September 1947) was the Master of Van Mildert College and Professor of Russian and Russian History at Durham University. Until 2003, he was Associate Professor of Russian at Trinity College, Dublin. He has held visiting fellowships at the Kennan Institute, Washington DC and Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge. \n\nIn September 2011 he retired to Oxfordshire.\n\n\"The Decembrist Pavel Pestel: Russia's First Republican\", \n\"K.F. Ryleev: A Political Biography of the Decembrist Poet\", \n"}
{"id": "1924682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924682", "title": "John Buccigross", "text": "John Buccigross\n\nJohn Buccigross () is an American sportscaster. He has been an anchor for ESPN since 1996.\n\nBorn at Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh's northside, he was raised in nearby Indiana, Pennsylvania before moving at 11 to Steubenville, Ohio. A graduate of Steubenville Catholic Central High School, and Heidelberg College (where he majored in Communications and Theater Arts), his television duties include the Emmy winning \"SportsCenter\" and \"Baseball Tonight\". He formerly served as the co-host of the Emmy nominated \"NHL 2Night\". Before working for ESPN, he worked in Providence, Rhode Island and Cape Cod, Massachusetts.\n\nBuccigross signed a book deal in the spring of 2006 with Middle Atlantic Press to write the life story of former NHL player and current NHL analyst Keith Jones. The book's title is \"Jonesy: Put Your Head Down And Skate. The Improbable NHL Career of Keith Jones\". The book was released on October 2, 2007. Buccigross described himself in a 2006 column: \"I'm 6-foot-4, 192 pounds. Mizuno MP33 irons. Big Run-DMC fan. Love chicken parm. Once played golf with Ray Bourque and tried to intentionally three putt from 30 feet so I could say I shot a 77 playing golf with Ray Bourque. Instead, the slippery downhill putt went in and I shot a 75 not playing golf with Brett Lindros.\" One of his catch-phrases is \"nahmally good\", which is a play on \"normally good\", and he refers to painful experiences by claiming, \"Oh, Knights of Columbus that hurts!\" Also, on occasion, he uses a Pittsburgh English or Pittsburghese accent, in his announcements of Pittsburgh sports. Another fun catch-phrase of Buccigross is associated with NBA star James Harden, exclaiming, \"And a woo woo woo!\" every time Harden scores a basket--a tip of the hat to Jeffrey Osborne's 1986 smash hit, \"You Should Be Mine.\"\n\nFrom 2001–2010, Buccigross authored a weekly NHL column for ESPN.com. Since November 30, 2010, however, no new columns have appeared on the website and no explanation has been given by either Buccigross or the network as to why the columns have stopped.\n\nBuccigross is a member of the Advisory Board for You Can Play, a campaign dedicated to fighting homophobia in sports.\n\nDespite initial reports to the contrary, Buccigross was not included in a mass layoff of on-air ESPN employees that included most of the network's hockey staff in April 2017; his contract was set to expire in the summer of that year and, at the time, it had not been announced whether or not it would be renewed. He remained employed at ESPN as of May 30, 2018.\n\nDuring the 2012 NHL Playoffs, John Buccigross hosted the #Bucciovertimechallenge on Twitter, asking users to guess the player (one for each team) who would score the game-winning goal for every overtime game throughout the course of the playoffs. The game is still active as of 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924686", "title": "Ben A. Jones", "text": "Ben A. Jones\n\nBenjamin Allyn Jones (December 31, 1882 – June 13, 1961) was a thoroughbred horse trainer.\n\nBen Jones was born in Parnell, Missouri, and attended Wentworth Military Academy in Lexington, Missouri for high school.\n\nJones went into the business of breeding and training of thoroughbreds during the first decade of the 20th century, racing his horses on small circuits in the American West and in Mexico. By the end of the 1920s he was recognized as one of the better trainers in the industry. He gave up his operation to accept the job of trainer for Woolford Farm in Prairie Village, Kansas from 1931 to 1939 during which time he trained three champions including the 1938 Flamingo Stakes and Kentucky Derby winner, Lawrin.\n\nFor the next season, Jones was hired by Warren Wright, Sr. to train for his Calumet Farm in Lexington, Kentucky and to take charge of its breeding operation. Under Ben Jones, Calumet became one of the greatest stables in thoroughbred racing history. He is the only trainer to win the Kentucky Derby six times, including victories by two U.S. Triple Crown winners, Whirlaway and Citation.\n\nIn 1948, Ben Jones was appointed general manager of Calumet Farm and his son, Horace A. \"Jimmy\" Jones, took over head trainer duties. Ben Jones made the cover of the May 30, 1949 issue of Time magazine. He retired in 1953 and in 1958 was inducted into the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame.\n\nBen Jones died in 1961 at the age of seventy-eight.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924687", "title": "Aguinaldo, Ifugao", "text": "Aguinaldo, Ifugao\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBatas Pambansa Bilang 86, approved on September 20, 1980, created the municipality out of Barangays Bunhian, Damag, Galonogon, Itab, Jacmal, Taang, Talete and Ubao, from the Municipality of Mayoyao.\n\nThe economy is mostly agricultural with palay as the main crop.\n\nAguinaldo is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Aguinaldo, Ifugao, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "1924698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924698", "title": "District Council of Alexandrina", "text": "District Council of Alexandrina\n\nThe District Council of Alexandrina was a local government area in rural South Australia from 1856 to 1888.\n\nBased at Point Sturt on the western shore of Lake Alexandrina, it was formed in 1856 by secession from the District Council of Bremer when residents of the Hundred of Alexandrina area lobbied strongly for their own council. 32 years later in 1888 it was amalgamated back into the DC of Bremer.\n\nThe name \"Alexandrina\" was revived for local government in South Australia in 1997 when the district councils of Strathalbyn, Port Elliot and Goolwa, and part of the District Council of Willunga were amalgamated to form the Alexandrina Council.\n"}
{"id": "1924700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924700", "title": "Members of the 25th Dáil", "text": "Members of the 25th Dáil\n\nThis is a list of members who were elected to the 25th Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Oireachtas (legislature) of Ireland. These TDs (Members of Parliament) were elected at the 1987 general election on 17 February 1987 and met on 10 March 1987. The 25th Dáil was dissolved by President Patrick Hillery, at the request of the Taoiseach Charles Haughey on 25 May 1989. The 25th Dáil lasted 849 days. There were no by-elections during the 25th Dáil.\n\nGovernment party denoted with bullet (•)\n\nThis is a graphical comparison of party strengths in the 25th Dáil from March 1987.\n\n\nThe list of the 166 TDs elected, is given in alphabetical order by constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924702", "title": "Bill Clement", "text": "Bill Clement\n\nWilliam H. \"Bill\" Clement (born December 20, 1950) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player who became an author, speaker (BillClementSpeaking.com), actor, entrepreneur, and hockey broadcaster. He recently authored \"EverDay Leadership: Crossing Gorges on Tightropes to Success\" with foreword by Wayne Gretzky.\n\nClement played 11 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL), and was named an All-Star twice. He spent his first four years with the Philadelphia Flyers, with whom he won two Stanley Cup championships (1974, 1975). Clement later played for the Washington Capitals, whom he captained, and the Flames, both in Atlanta and Calgary.\n\nClement has broadcast five different Olympic Games and has worked for ESPN, NBC, ABC, Versus, Comcast SportsNet and TNT in the U.S., and CTV, CBC, Rogers Sportsnet and Sirius XM Radio in Canada.\n\nHis acting credits include work on the ABC daytime drama \"All My Children\" and more than 300 television ads for clients such as Chevrolet, Bud Light, and Deepwoods Off. He was also one of the in-game announcers on EA Sports' NHL video games from \"NHL 07\" through \"NHL 14\", as well as on 2K Sports' \"NHL 2K\" series in \"ESPN NHL Hockey\" and \"ESPN NHL 2K5\".\n\nPrior to his career as a broadcaster, Clement was an NHL hockey player. As a native of Buckingham, he played in nearby Thurso with Guy Lafleur. He played Junior Hockey with the Ottawa 67s of the O.H.A., in their first three seasons.\n\nOriginally selected 18th (second round) in the 1970 NHL Entry Draft by the Philadelphia Flyers (the Flyers' first pick of the draft), Clement played four seasons with the Flyers (as well as in minor league teams at Quebec City and Richmond, VA), and was part of the Stanley Cup-winning Flyers teams of 1973–74 and 1974–75 as the 4th line Center. Prior to the 1975 NHL Amateur Draft, he was traded to the Washington Capitals for their right to draft Mel Bridgman, as the first overall draft pick that year. After playing just 46 games with the Capitals (and serving as the team captain) in the 1975–76 season, he was then traded to the Atlanta Flames for Gerry Meehan. He would play with the Flames organization in both Atlanta and Calgary, until his retirement following the 1981–82 NHL season. He played in two NHL All-Star Games, in 1976 and 1978. In 719 regular season games, he scored 148 goals, earned 206 assists, and 383 penalty minutes. In 50 playoff games, he collected five goals and three assists.\n\nClement was known for a calm and consistent passing game, leading to the rhyme \"Clement, Clement, Hands of Cement.\" Bud Light referenced the old taunt in one of their popular \"Hockey Falls\" commercials.\n\nAfter retiring from hockey, he worked for many years as a lead color commentator for ESPN's hockey coverage. He was always paired with play-by-play man Gary Thorne during these ESPN-produced telecasts. From until he worked for SportsChannel America, providing color commentary on their national telecasts and regional Philadelphia Flyers games, both with Mike Emrick.\n\nHe worked alongside Jim Lampley as a studio analyst for NBC during their coverage of both the men's and women's ice hockey tournaments at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. He worked as the play-by-play announcer for table tennis, pentathlon events, and badminton tournaments for the 2004 and 2008 Summer Olympics for NBC. He won province championships playing badminton in high school. He also worked as an analyst in ESPN's Great Outdoor Games for several years.\n\nHe provided color commentary for the EA Sports' \"NHL\" series for \"NHL 2000\" and \"NHL 2001\", with Jim Hughson; and for all next-generation versions from \"NHL 07\" through \"NHL 14\", with Gary Thorne. The latter duo previously voiced 2K Sports' \"NHL 2K\" series for \"ESPN NHL Hockey\" and \"ESPN NHL 2K5\", when 2K Sports had the ESPN license.\n\nHe is also host of a Flyers-based radio talk show on WBCB 1490 AM in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. The show includes current and former players and coaches, as well as players from the ECHL's Trenton Devils. He also continues to provide color commentary, as well as post-game show analysis, working several local Flyers broadcasts for NBC Sports Philadelphia and The Comcast Network since the 2007–08 season.\n\nFrom –, he broadcast at least one game of every Stanley Cup Finals series (with ESPN from –, SportsChannel America from –, ESPN again from –, and ABC from –). After a lockout canceled the 2005 Finals, he worked the and 2007 Finals as the studio host for OLN and NBC. He continued his streak in as a color commentator for NHL Radio on Westwood One.\n\nAfter retirement from hockey, he married and had two children, and resides in Solebury Township, Pennsylvania. His daughter Reagan graduated from The Hun School of Princeton in 2007, while his son Chase graduated from New Hope-Solebury High School in 2008 and now goes to Delaware Valley College where he plays soccer as their goalkeeper and was First Team All Freedom Conference Player in 2012. \nClement became a U.S. citizen on November 4, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924703", "title": "Duty-free shop", "text": "Duty-free shop\n\nDuty-free shops (or stores) are retail outlets whose goods are exempt from the payment of certain local or national taxes and duties, on the requirement that the goods sold will be sold to travelers who will take them out of the country. Which products can be sold duty-free vary by jurisdiction, as well as how they can be sold, and the process of calculating the duty or refunding the duty component.\n\nHowever, some countries impose duty on goods brought into the country, though they had been bought duty-free in another country, or when the value or quantity of such goods exceed an allowed limit. Duty-free shops are often found in the international zone of international airports, sea ports, and train stations but goods can also be bought duty-free on board airplanes and passenger ships. They are not as commonly available for road or train travelers, although several border crossings between the United States and both Canada and Mexico have duty-free shops for car travelers. In some countries, any shop can participate in a reimbursement system, such as \"Global Blue\" and \"Premier Tax Free\", wherein a sum equivalent to the tax is paid, but then the goods are presented to customs and the sum reimbursed on exit.\n\nThese outlets were abolished for intra-EU travellers in 1999, but are retained for travelers whose final destination is outside the EU. They also sell to intra-EU travelers but with appropriate taxes. Some special member state territories such as Åland, Livigno and the Canary Islands, are within the EU but outside the EU tax union, and thus still continue duty-free sales for all travelers.\n\nTax Free World Association (TFWA) announced that in 2011 Asia-Pacific, with 35 percent of global duty-free and travel retail sales, beat Europe and Americas, with these regions accounting for 34 percent and 23 percent respectively. 31 percent of sales came from the fragrances and cosmetics category, followed by the wine and spirit category with 17 percent and then comes tobacco products.\n\nThe world's largest airport by duty-free sales is South Korea's Incheon Airport, with US$1.85 billion in 2016, narrowly overtaking Dubai Duty Free with 2016 sales of $1.82 billion.\n\nBrendan O'Regan established the world's first duty-free shop at Shannon Airport in Ireland in 1947; it remains in operation today. Designed to provide a service for trans-Atlantic airline passengers typically travelling between Europe and North America whose flights stopped for refuelling on outbound and inbound legs of their journeys, it was an immediate success and has been copied worldwide. Thirteen years later, two American entrepreneurs, Charles Feeney and Robert Warren Miller, founded what is now Duty Free Shoppers (DFS) on 7 November 1960. DFS started operations in Hong Kong and spread to Europe and other places around the globe. Securing the exclusive concession for duty-free sales in Hawaii in the early-1960s made for a commercial breakthrough for DFS, and the company was positioned to focus on Japanese travellers. DFS continued to innovate, expanding into off-airport duty-free stores and into large downtown Galleria stores; it grew to become the world's largest travel retailer. In 1996 LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton acquired the interests of Feeney and two other shareholders and jointly owned DFS with Miller.\n\nIn this same period, several locales grew as duty-free shopping destinations. They are exemplified by Saint Martin and the US Virgin Islands in the Caribbean, Hong Kong and Singapore. Still others claim prices competitive to duty-free. Generally, goods are free of duty and tax levied on imports for sale anywhere in the shopping destination. Merchants may pay inventory/business or other taxes, but their customers usually pay none directly.\n\nThe mere absence of duty or other taxes on goods being sold does not assure that they are bargains. Costs of identical goods from different duty-free sources can vary widely. They often depend on the presence or absence of nearby competition, e.g., airport stores, especially if all at any airport are owned by a single firm such as Dufry. Also, prices can often be driven upward by the costs of buyer convenience, e.g., in-flight sales by airlines. Many airlines, such as Emirates, El Al, Singapore Airlines, Middle East Airlines, Ukraine International Airlines, Delta, and Avianca,\noffer duty-free sales on their flights.\n\nSome duty-free shops operate in central business districts away from airports or other ports. In Japan, for example, any visitor whose passport indicates that they have been in the country for less than six months can buy items without paying consumption tax, so long as the total purchase value exceeds ¥5,000 and the items will not be consumed in Japan. Duty-free shops are a mainstay in the Akihabara electronic shopping district of Tokyo.\n\nIn Thailand, the King Power chain has shops where duty-free items are pre-purchased and delivered separately to the airport to be picked up on departure. For certain other purchases, a VAT refund may be claimed at the airport upon departure.\n\nIn the Philippines, there is one shopping mall called the Duty Free Philippines Fiestamall, which is located a few miles away from Ninoy Aquino International Airport as opposed to being at the airport itself. It is the only shopping mall of its kind in the world. The goods that are sold in this mall are often imported products which come from around the world (mainly from United States, Asia and Australasia) and are not found in any other shopping malls in the country, aside from duty-free malls. Tourists, visitors and returning citizens of Philippines often pay a visit to this mall shortly after their arrival (since only arriving passengers and their companions are allowed access). In order to gain entry, a passport is needed to be presented and registered at the Customer Registration Counter at the entrance of the mall. The customer will then be issued a shopping card; these shopping cards must be presented to the cashier for validation of purchases. Arriving customers are given a certain tax-free allowance on purchases and anything in excess will be subject to local and national taxes. In the past, the mall used to only accept US dollars and Philippine peso but in recent years, it had begun accepting other currencies such as Japanese yen, Brunei dollar, Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Swiss franc, Saudi riyal, Bahraini dinar, and Thai baht. Currency exchange booths are also available inside the mall if a customer wishes to exchange currencies into Philippine pesos or US dollars. Credits cards can also be used for purchasing goods.\n\nIn Australia, duty-free shops, once common, have all but disappeared since the introduction of GST in 2000. Retailer James Richardson operates several duty-free shops in major cities, but most duty-free shops are now located within international airports. Residents and tourists are allowed to purchase virtually any physical good within 60 days of departure, which needs to be taken on the outward flight, and claim the GST component back through the Tourist Refund Scheme when passing through customs. Consumers are now free to fully use their items prior to departure. This is in contrast prior to 2000, where all purchases had to be packed by the duty-free store in a sealed clear plastic bag, and could only be broken open by customs staff just prior to departure.\n\nAny traveller living in a country outside the EU VAT area is entitled to shop tax-free at participating shops in the EU. Tax free shopping differs from duty free shopping as the traveller pays the VAT on goods in the shop in the usual way, and can then request a refund when exporting the goods. There are a number of tax-free operators who can support both the stores and the traveler through this process. To qualify, the traveller must:\n\n\nOnly goods meant for personal use are eligible for the refund. The stamped forms and receipts can then be sent back to the retailers, or their agents, for a refund.\n\nIn most cases, a minimum purchase applies to use the tax-free shopping scheme. The actual amount of VAT reclaimable depends on the VAT rate applicable in the particular country to the goods purchased, and may be subject to a deduction for administration fees.\n\nTravelers on long-haul routes with at least one transit stop between their departure airport and destination airport should be careful to purchase their duty-free alcohol or perfume at the last transit port, as otherwise they may have it confiscated by security when they board at the transit port, as they will be exceeding the current limit on liquids in hand baggage. This does not apply to passengers transferring within the EU and Singapore on the same day, as long as the liquid item is sealed in a plastic security bag with the receipt showing in the bag. Arrivals duty-free shops are now becoming more common. Most of South and Central America, and the Caribbean have such shops, as does South East Asia and Oceania. Switzerland and Canada are looking to introduce them in 2010. This method of retail removes any security problems with the transit of liquids, as they are not carried on aircraft.\n\nSeveral airlines do not allow sales of certain sharp objects in-flight due to security risk. Other objects that have sharp parts, such as model airplanes, may be bought in-flight but received at the passengers' home address for the same reason.\n\nProof of travel may be requested at the checkout point to prevent airport employees from making personal purchases.\n\nSome countries or districts, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Iceland, Italy, Iran, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Lebanon, Malaysia, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, United Arab Emirates and Uzbekistan have inwards duty-free facilities, where arriving passengers can purchase duty-free items immediately before going through customs. This not only saves the inconvenience of having to carry these items around the world but also solves the security problem mentioned above. Other countries such as Canada and Sweden have been considering duty-free on arrival. The European Union does not permit arrivals duty-free stores; some EU airports sell goods on arrival in the baggage claim area described as \"Tax-Free\", but these goods are all tax-paid sales, the local sales tax is discounted. Normally, discounted liquors or tobacco products cannot be bought when arriving into an EU Member State as there is often a high local Excise Duty on these goods as well as the local sales tax (VAT/IVA/TVA) which is included in the price. In some EU Territories the tax on tobaccos and liquors is lower than in other EU countries, which is why the prices still seem competitive and look like duty-free prices. A good example is the difference in tobacco prices between the UK and Ireland, compared to Spain or Portugal.\n\nIt is a common feature of most tax systems that taxes are not raised on goods to be exported. To do so could place the goods at a disadvantage to those from other countries, for example if the tax rate in the territory of sale is higher than the tax rate in the territory of consumption. Either the tax system allows the goods to be exported without taxes (stored prior to export in a bonded warehouse), or taxes can be claimed back when they are exported (see VAT).\n\nSuch exemption also applies to goods supplied for use on ships and aircraft, because they are consumed outside the country. Businesses supplying such goods can do so tax- and duty-free.\n\nGoods sold to passengers on board ships or aircraft are tax free. The passenger can either consume them on board, or import them tax-free into the country they are traveling to, so long as they are within the traveler's duty-free allowance. Most tax regimes also allow travelers entering a country to bring in a certain amount of goods for personal use without paying tax on them, the so-called \"duty-free allowance\"; because it is not economically justifiable to collect the small amounts of tax involved, and would be an inconvenience to the passengers.\n\nA duty-free shop works under the same system. The goods must be exported intact (they cannot be consumed in the country of sale), and they are importing into the destination country under that country's own tax rules. In some countries, in order to ensure that goods are exported intact, they are hand-delivered in a closed bag to the passenger at the gate after his ticket is scanned. In the United States, duty-free shops are technically considered class 9 Bonded Warehouses with regard to the U.S. Customs & Border Protection:\n\nMoreover, in the U.S. some duty-free stores will sell their goods to domestic passengers with appropriate taxes included. Alcohol and tobacco products are restricted to international passengers only and subject to the age limitations of 18 and 21 respectively, even though the age one must be to import those items into other countries may be lower.\n\nU.S. citizens receive substantially higher duty exemptions than normal when they visit or transit these locales, e.g., Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924705", "title": "Milk and Honey (album)", "text": "Milk and Honey (album)\n\nMilk and Honey is the sixth and final album by John Lennon and Yoko Ono, released in 1984. Following the compilation \"The John Lennon Collection\", it is Lennon's eighth and final studio album, and the first posthumous release of new Lennon music, having been recorded in the last months of his life during and following the sessions for his 1980 album \"Double Fantasy\". It was assembled by Yoko Ono in association with the Geffen label.\n\n\"Milk and Honey\" was the duo's projected follow-up to \"Double Fantasy\", though Lennon's death caused a temporary shelving of the project. It took Ono three years to be able to resume work to complete it. Ono's material largely comprises new recordings, which she undertook during the album's preparation in 1983, which give her songs a more commercial and contemporary edge. Conversely, Lennon's material, being rough takes and rehearsal recordings, has a more casual feeling.\n\n\"Nobody Told Me\", a song Lennon intended for Ringo Starr's 1981 album \"Stop and Smell the Roses\", was released as a single and became a worldwide Top 10 hit. Other singles from the album were \"I'm Stepping Out\" and \"Borrowed Time\". The songs \"Let Me Count the Ways\" and \"Grow Old with Me\" were written by Lennon and Ono to each other using inspiration from poems by Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning. They are presented in their demo form.\n\nThe album title came from Ono, who explained that it referred to their journey to the US, \"the land of milk and honey\". \"But also, in the Scripture, the land of milk and honey is where you go after you die, as a promised land\", Ono went on to say. \"So it's very strange that I thought of that title. Almost scary – like someone up there told me to call the next album Milk and Honey.\" The cover is an alternative take from the same photo session that produced the front cover of \"Double Fantasy\", though this time it appears in colour.\n\nAfter a falling out with David Geffen, whose Geffen Records had initially released \"Double Fantasy\", Ono moved future projects to Polydor Records, which initially released \"Milk and Honey\". EMI, home of Lennon's entire recorded output—including that with the Beatles—acquired this and all Lennon releases in the late 1990s. Predictably, the reaction to \"Milk and Honey\" was less fanatical than the one that afforded \"Double Fantasy\" in the wake of Lennon's death, but it was still well received, peaking at No. 3 in the UK and No. 11 in the US, where it went gold. Jack Douglas, who had co-produced \"Double Fantasy\" with Lennon and Ono, also had input into the initial sessions for \"Milk and Honey\", though Ono declined to credit him after their professional relationship soured following Lennon's death.\n\nIn 2001, Ono supervised the remastering of \"Milk and Honey\" for its CD reissue, adding three bonus tracks and a 22-minute excerpt from Lennon's last interview in the late afternoon of 8 December 1980, hours before his death.\n\nThe bonus tracks include home demo recordings of \"I'm Stepping Out\" and \"I'm Moving On\" (from \"Double Fantasy\") along with a version of \"Every Man Has a Woman Who Loves Him\" featuring Lennon's vocals only, which was planned to be included on the Ono tribute album \"Every Man Has a Woman\" (released 1984).\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n"}
{"id": "1924709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924709", "title": "Greatest Hits (2000 Ace of Base album)", "text": "Greatest Hits (2000 Ace of Base album)\n\nGreatest Hits is a compilation album by the Swedish group Ace of Base.\n\n\"Greatest Hits\" was the North American counterpart to the international album, \"Singles of the 90s\". \"Greatest Hits\" was released by Arista Records in March 2000, fulfilling their contractual obligations with the group and ending their relationship.\n\nIt contained a track error on \"The Sign\" (which cut one second from the beginning of the song) and only one new track, \"C'est La Vie (Always 21)\", which was also featured on \"Singles Of The 90s\" along with two other new tracks. \"Life Is a Flower\", which was previously withheld from the \"Cruel Summer\" album in favor of \"Whenever You're Near Me\" for being \"too European in nature\" was made available to American audiences for the first time on this compilation. The release includes a new remix of \"Everytime It Rains\" by Metro, however there is no indication on the packaging that the song is a remix, and the running time listed matches the running time of the original radio edit (3:55), rather than the remix's actual running time of 4:17.\n\nThe remix was released to US radio outlets in March 2000 as the only form of promotion for the album. The song failed to gain airplay and with no additional promotion, the album failed to enter the \"Billboard\" U.S. album charts, selling fewer than 5,000 copies in its first week of release. It was the first Ace of Base album to fail to chart. \"Greatest Hits\" is not available in the US via iTunes; however, \"Singles of the 90s\" is.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924713", "title": "Daniel (Montenegrin singer)", "text": "Daniel (Montenegrin singer)\n\nDaniel (Cyrillic: Даниел) is the stage name of Milan Popović (Милан Поповић) (born 29 October 1955, Titograd, SR Montenegro, Yugoslavia), a Croatian-Montenegrin pop singer. He is sometimes credited as Danijel Popović (Данијел Поповић).\n\nBorn to a Montenegrin father and a Belgian mother, Popović was raised in Titograd, but made his name in Zagreb, where he moved in 1977 to pursue a career in pop music.\n\nIn 1983, as a regional representative of Croatia (TV Zagreb), he won the right to represent Yugoslavia at the Eurovision Song Contest with the song \"Džuli\" (\"Julie\"). His national victory was somewhat unexpected because most observers saw popular folk singer Lepa Brena, a regional representative of Vojvodina (TV Novi Sad), as a clear favourite.\n\nDaniel achieved 4th place in Munich, equaling at the time the best ever Yugoslav placing at the Eurovision Song Contest (Lola Novaković's 4th-place finish in 1962). \"Džuli\" was also a huge hit in Yugoslavia: the album sold 717,166 copies while the single sold further 80,883 – a huge number for Yugoslavia in both cases. The song was a big hit in many other European countries as well, including Norway, where Daniel played several venues. Early in 1984, he performed at a NRK broadcast TV show prior to the Sarajevo Winter Olympics, playing \"Džuli\" and a new song called \"Miss You\".\n\nLike many other ESC contestants, Daniel failed to build on his triumph, and his commercial appeal gradually declined. By the 1990s, his popularity was already on the wane, though he managed to register one more moderate hit in 1991 – a track called \"Daj obuci levisice\" that he competed with at 1991 Jugovizija representing HTV and placing second, only two points behind the winning song \"Brazil\" by Bebi Dol. A few years earlier, he had also featured in the Lepa Brena folk hit \"Jugoslovenka\".\n\nHe stayed in Croatia during the war and disappeared into anonymity after a few unsuccessful albums. Tapping into his savings, he opened a studio and started producing records for performers like Nives Celzijus (her first and so far only album \"Cura moderna\"). He would foray back into singing only occasionally. During the summer of 2001, he took part in the Sunčane Skale festival in Herceg Novi, but managed to get only 7 points (winner Ivana Banfić received 107).\n\nIn early 2005, after an extended commercially barren period in Croatia, Daniel moved back to Montenegro, hoping to resurrect his stuttering singing career. In late 2005, his performance in Munich in 1983 was included in a collection of two double DVDs and two double CDs celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Eurovision Song Contest. The collection, which consisted of all the winners as well as a few of the most favourite non-winning contestants, was entitled \"Congratulations\" (\"1956-1980\" and \"1981-2005\"). A glimpse of Daniel's 1983 act could also be seen in the celebration show broadcast from Copenhagen in October 2005.\n\nIn January 2007, it was reported that Daniel would take part in the Croatian pre-selection for the Eurovision Song Contest, Dora, together with his son Sebastian (20) and daughter Isabella (16), as well as Snježana Ivana Pandl (17). Their song did not make it to the final selection process. In late 2009, he was a contestant on \"Kmetija\" reality show, Slovenian version of \"The Farm\".\n\nDaniel has been married three times. He wed his first wife Marija in 1978; the couple were divorced by the mid-1980s, when, in 1986, he married Sanja Bjedov and had two children with her: son Sebastian, and daughter Isabella Kim. The couple separated in 1994 before finalizing their divorce in 1996.\n\nBy that time Daniel was in a relationship with Sandra Bagarić whom he soon married and had a son Dominik with. Soon after moving from Zagreb to Podgorica in early 2005, the couple separated and divorced. In August 2005, he was hit with public allegations of spousal abuse by his ex-wife Sandra Bagarić who accused him of \"repeated, jealousy-induced physical and mental maltreatment\".\n\nIn March 2008, news appeared in certain media outlets about the possibility that Daniel might end up serving time in prison for not paying child and spousal support to his second wife, Sanja Bjedov, and their two children. In spring 2008, a Croatian court ordered him to pay HRK219,000 (~€31,000) in back spousal and child support payments. In October 2009, during a club appearance in Zagreb his ex-wife Sandra brought their son Dominik along and claimed Daniel owes them €2,000 in unpaid child support.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924714", "title": "Chénier Cell", "text": "Chénier Cell\n\nThe Chénier Cell, also known as the South Shore Gang, was a Montreal based Front de libération du Québec (FLQ) terrorist cell responsible for a decade of bombing, armed robbery and kidnapping that led to the October Crisis.\n\nThe Chénier Cell was named after the Lower Canada Rebellion patriote movement leader Jean-Olivier Chénier. A violent Quebec sovereignty movement, the Chénier Cell attempted to usurp the elected Government of Quebec and create a Québécois people's uprising to establish a new Quebec state independent of Canada. The four known members of the Chénier Cell were: Paul Rose, Jacques Rose, Francis Simard and Bernard Lortie.\n\nOn October 5, 1970, members of another Montreal based FLQ cell, the Liberation Cell, kidnapped the United Kingdom Trade Commissioner James Richard Cross from his Montreal home.\n\nOn October 8, 1970, the FLQ Manifesto was broadcast by CBC/Radio-Canada as one of the many demands required for the release of James Cross. The manifesto criticised big business, the Catholic Church, René Lévesque, Robert Bourassa and declared Pierre Trudeau \"a queer\".\n\nOn October 10, 1970, the Chénier Cell kidnapped the Vice-Premier of Quebec and Labour Minister, Pierre Laporte. The kidnappers approached Laporte, while he was playing football with his nephew on his front yard and forced him into their vehicle at gunpoint. The members of the Chénier Cell believed many other Québécois people would follow them in an uprising to create an independent state.\n\nOn October 15, 1970, the Government of Quebec put forward a request for the Canadian Armed Forces to support the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal.\n\nOn October 16, 1970, the Federal Government of Canada proclaimed the existence of a state of \"apprehended insurrection\" under the War Measures Act. These emergency regulations outlawed the FLQ and made membership a criminal act. In addition, normal liberties were suspended and arrests and detentions were authorized without charges.\n\nOn October 17, 1970, the day after the Government of Canada invoked the War Measures Act, the Chénier Cell announced that they had executed Laporte. Laporte was found strangled in the back of a stolen motor vehicle abandoned near the Montreal Saint-Hubert Longueuil Airport. \n\nIn late December 1970, four weeks after the members of the Liberation Cell were found by authorities, the Chénier Cell members were located in a farmhouse basement at Saint-Luc, Quebec. The Chénier Cell members were put on trial and three were convicted for kidnapping and murder, while Jacques Rose was convicted of being an accessory after the fact with all members pleading \"responsible\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1924718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924718", "title": "David Ramsay", "text": "David Ramsay\n\nDavid Ramsay may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924722", "title": "John Dickson Stufflebeem", "text": "John Dickson Stufflebeem\n\nJohn Dickson \"Boomer\" Stufflebeem (born 1952), is a retired United States Navy two-star rear admiral and Director, Navy Staff. Stufflebeem served 39 years in the Navy and is well known for his football career and television briefings from the Pentagon following the attacks of 9/11 and subsequent military operations in Afghanistan. He is the Senior Vice President and founder of the NJS Group, LLC, a company specializing in strategic communications and planning as well as crisis management.\n\nStufflebeem was born in Japan in 1952 while his father was stationed there in the Navy. Stufflebeem enlisted in the Navy Reserve in 1969 beginning his service as a deck seaman before being accepted into the United States Naval Academy in 1971. He graduated from the academy in 1975, having been nicknamed \"Boomer\" for his prowess as a punter on the Naval Academy football team. Although undrafted by any NFL team, his first assignment to the Detroit area allowed him to participate in three pre-seasons of professional football with the Detroit Lions He was designated a Surface Warfare Officer in 1978 and Naval Aviator in 1980.\n\nAs a commissioned officer, Stufflebeem served operational tours in a surface combatant, various fighter squadrons and carrier air wing staffs in the Pacific and Atlantic Fleets. He commanded Fighter Squadron Eighty-Four and Carrier Air Wing One during combat operations in the Balkans and Persian Gulf and Carrier Group Two/Task Force 60 during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Stufflebeem has flown over 4,000 hours in a variety of fighter aircraft and has more than 1,000 aircraft carrier landings.\n\nAdditionally, Stufflebeem has served in staff assignments including Military Aide to President George H. W. Bush, Deputy Executive Assistant and later, Executive Assistant to the Chief of Naval Operations. His first assignment as a flag officer was Deputy Director for Global Operations (J-3) on the Joint Staff during Operation Enduring Freedom.\n\nStufflebeem's decorations include the Navy Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit (four awards), Bronze Star, Meritorious Service Medal, and Air Medal (two strike/flight awards).\n\nOn May 20, 2005 at Naval Support Activity Naples, Stufflebeem was promoted to vice admiral and took command of the 6th Fleet, relieving then-Vice Admiral Harry Ulrich. He held this position until September 2007.\n\nIn December 2007, Stufflebeem assumed the duties of Director, Navy Staff, relieving then-Vice Admiral Mark P. Fitzgerald. Early in 2008, the Department of Defense began an investigation into an allegation that Stufflebeem had an inappropriate relationship while serving as a presidential military aide in 1990. The Navy announced on March 24, 2008 that Stufflebeem was removed as director of the Navy Staff. His removal was directly due to the false and misleading testimony Stufflebeem gave to investigators and in conversations with his seniors on multiple occasions. Since Stufflebeem no longer held a three-star assignment, he was reverted to his permanent grade of rear admiral (upper half). The rank of vice admiral is temporary and is only given if an officer occupies a three-star position. Rear Admiral Stufflebeem was reassigned to serve on the staff of the CNO pending a review. On April 21, 2008, the US Navy announced that Stufflebeem had received a written reprimand as a result of non-judicial punishment following the investigation. He subsequently retired from the Navy at his permanent two-star grade of rear admiral.\n\nStufflebeem was a standout punter for the Naval Academy during 1972-1974 and is still ranked as number three on the all-time list of Navy records. He earned All East Coast Athletic Conference and Sports Illustrated honors in 1974 when he led the Navy team to a near upset of Notre Dame in Philadelphia. Nicknamed \"Boomer\" as a punter because of his punting on the Naval Academy football team, he was signed to a professional football contract with the Detroit Lions after graduation from 1975-1979, but unfortunately did not make the team's regular season rosters. In 2000 at its annual awards banquet, the NCAA honored Stufflebeem as one of its Silver Anniversary Award Recipients that recognizes up to six nationally distinguished former student-athletes on their 25th anniversary as college graduates. In recent years Bill Belichick, head coach of the five time Super Bowl champion New England Patriots and former coach with the Detroit Lions in the 1970s, has commented on Stufflebeem's leadership prowess. In 2003 Belichick had Stufflebeem, a former player from his days with the Detroit Lions, deliver a message to the team before a game. The theme was about sacrifice, commitment and a warrior's mentality and was set in the parallel context of playing professional football and pursuing the enemy in war. The Patriots went on to win the Super Bowl that season and invited Stufflebeem to join the team at the White House after the championship.\n\nFollowing the attacks on the U.S. of September 11, 2001, then Rear Admiral Stufflebeem became the face and voice from the Pentagon of U.S. military operations being conducted in Afghanistan to remove the Taliban from power and rid the country of al Qaeda. For months he provided briefings from The Pentagon to international television and radio media on the prosecution of what was known as Operation Enduring Freedom as most reporters were not in Afghanistan during this time.\n\nWhile commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization operational command in Lisbon, Portugal, then Vice Admiral Stufflebeem led the first deployment of NATO Response Force troops out of the European theater to Pakistan. This was a humanitarian assistance and disaster relief mission in response to the earthquake that hit the Himalayan mountain range in the fall of 2005. Additionally, he supported the African Union Mission in Sudan, the political-military mission to address the problems occurring in Darfur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924730", "title": "Mike Greenberg", "text": "Mike Greenberg\n\nMichael Darrow Greenberg (born August 6, 1967) is a television anchor, television show host, former radio show host for ESPN and ABC, and novelist. At ESPN, he hosted the weekday evening, most often Monday, \"SportsCenter\" and previously ESPN Radio's \"Mike & Mike\" show with Mike Golic. At sister network ABC, he was the host of \"Duel\", which aired from 2007 to 2008. He also co-hosts \"Battle of the Network Stars\" with Joe Tessitore.\n\nGreenberg was born to a Jewish family in New York, New York, and graduated from Stuyvesant High School in 1985. In 1989, Greenberg graduated from Northwestern University, where he joined the Theta Chi Fraternity, and started work as a sports anchor and reporter at WMAQ-AM in Chicago. He left WMAQ in 1992 to work for WSCR-Radio as a reporter (covering events such as the World Series and the Super Bowl) and talk show host. From 1993 to 1995, he also wrote a weekly syndicated column for the California-based Copley News Service. In 1994, he added reporting for SportsChannel Chicago to his résumé. In 1995, he left SportsChannel Chicago to work at CLTV, becoming an anchor, reporter, and host of a live call-in show. He left Chicago in September 1996 for ESPN, where he became one of the first hosts of ESPNEWS when it began broadcasting in November of that year.\n\nIn 1999, with ESPN Radio airing in just four markets, Mike Greenberg was approached about returning to radio to be a part of a morning drive-time show with Mike Golic as co-host. Greenberg agreed, with the understanding that he would continue anchoring \"SportsCenter\" on a regular basis. On April 26, 2004, the show started a regular simulcast on ESPNEWS. Because of their continued success, the duo moved to ESPN2 in January 2005.\n\nOne of the most popular segments of the entire year on \"Mike & Mike\" was the annual \"Sheet of Integrity\" wager, a bracket wager based on the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament and the massive ESPN.com bracket contest. The bet originated after Golic told of how he would enter a massive number of sheets into different pools to win the money involved in the pool. Greenberg, believing picks required a sort of integrity, insisted that any such entrant be required to enter only one \"Sheet of Integrity\". Golic would select one of his (presumably) dozens of sheets against Greenberg, with the loser having to perform a humiliating stunt, usually on the air. The first year, Greenberg won and Golic had to have an eyebrow wax on the air. The next two years, Golic won, and Greenberg had to wear the University of Notre Dame Leprechaun mascot costume on the air, the second time on the Notre Dame campus. In the 2007 competition Greenberg, an admitted die-hard New York Jets' fan, agreed to wear a New England Patriots' jersey to a Jets' game and to milk a cow live on-air. Greenberg received advice about milking a cow from ESPN baseball analyst Buster Olney, who grew up on a dairy farm.\n\nMike Greenberg's final day as co-host of the \"Mike & Mike\" program was November 17, 2017. On November 27, Trey Wingo, host of NFL Live and ESPN's \"SportsCenter\", became Golic's new morning show co-host, and the duo are now part of \"Mike & Mike\"'s successor show, \"Golic and Wingo\". Greenberg joined a new ESPN morning show, \"Get Up!\", which premiered April 2, 2018.\n\nGreenberg hosted the ABC game show \"Duel\". The first season of the show, a week-long six-episode special, premiered on December 17, 2007, and ended on December 23, 2007. The show was renewed, and premiered its second season (consisting of ten episodes) on April 4, 2008; the show's sixteenth and final episode aired on July 30.\n\nOn February 20, 2008, Greenberg appeared, along with his radio partner Mike Golic, on the soap opera \"Guiding Light\" as reported on ESPNradio.com.\n\nOn April 18, 2012, Greenberg co-hosted \"Live! with Kelly\".\n\nOn March 7, 2006, Greenberg released his first book entitled \"Why My Wife Thinks I'm An Idiot: The Life and Times of a Sportscaster Dad\", which reached 14th on the New York Times Bestseller list and was nominated in the 2006 Quill Awards for best sports book. In April 2010, Greenberg, along with co-host Mike Golic, released a book entitled \"Mike and Mike's Rules for Sports and Life\". Along with the release, the two Mikes embarked on a 15-city book tour that included stops in New York City, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Dallas, Boston, and Tampa. Greenberg released a novel entitled \"All You Could Ask For\" in 2013. He released the novel \"My Father's Wives\" in January 2015.\n\nGreenberg drew considerable outrage when he, as he says accidentally, blurted out a slur and possibly corrected himself by saying \"Martin Luther Coon King Jr. Holiday\" to refer to Martin Luther King Day live on air on January 28, 2010.\n\nGreenberg is a die-hard New York Jets, New York Knicks and New York Mets fan. Mike Golic, his colleague on \"Mike & Mike\", frequently refers to Greenberg as \"Greeny\". Greenberg resides in Westport, Connecticut, with his wife Stacy, daughter Nicole (born September 2000) and son Stephen (born December 2002).\n\n"}
{"id": "1924737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924737", "title": "Vlado &amp; Isolda", "text": "Vlado &amp; Isolda\n\nVlado & Isolda was a pop duo that represented Yugoslavia at the Eurovision Song Contest 1984 with the song \"Ciao, amore\".\n\nThe duo consisted of Croatian and Serbian pop singers, Vlado Kalember and Izolda Barudžija, respectively. The latter had appeared as a singer or back-up singer in two previous contests, her most famous appearance being the 1983 entry \"Džuli\".\n"}
{"id": "1924745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924745", "title": "Mike Golic", "text": "Mike Golic\n\nMichael Louis Golic Sr. (; born December 12, 1962) is a former co-host of ESPN Radio's \"Mike & Mike\", a current co-host of \"Golic and Wingo\", and a former National Football League (NFL) defensive lineman.\n\nHe is also an analyst for ESPN and ESPN2's NFL studio programming, as well as for the networks' college football coverage. Golic joined ESPN in 1995 as a reporter/analyst for \"Sunday NFL Countdown\". Since then he has worked as the color commentator for the Arena Football League (1996–98, 2007–present) and the NFL's Jacksonville Jaguars pre-season games (1995–98). In 1998, Golic began serving as college football analyst for ESPN and ABC, and was an original analyst for \"NFL 2Night\" (now known as \"NFL Live\"), the five-night-per-week news and information program on ESPN2.\n\nGolic is also the host of the long-running syndicated sports highlights, bloopers, and gag show called \"The Lighter Side of Sports\".\n\nGolic was born and raised in Willowick, Ohio, and attended St. Joseph High School in Cleveland, Ohio. Golic graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1985 as a finance and management major. He served as captain of the football team during his senior season and also wrestled for the Irish.\n\nGolic was drafted by the Houston Oilers selected in the 10th round with the 255th overall pick in the 1985 NFL Draft.\nHe was an eight-year NFL veteran, playing defensive tackle for the Houston Oilers, Philadelphia Eagles and Miami Dolphins.\n\nHe played in 115 games (starting 49 games) and 5 playoff games during his 8 seasons in the NFL. He recorded 11.5 sacks and three interceptions in his career. Golic admitted to taking corticosteroids briefly while recovering from an injury.\n\nDuring his five years in Philadelphia, he decided to begin his television career with a weekly segment on the \"Randall Cunningham Show\". He received a Mid-Atlantic Region Emmy Award for his feature \"Golic's Got It\".\n\nFrom January 2, 2000 to November 17, 2017, he hosted \"Mike & Mike\" with Mike Greenberg on ESPN Radio and ESPN2. November 27, 2017, he began a show with Trey Wingo named \"Golic and Wingo\", which also featured Mike Jr. Prior to \"Mike and Mike,\" Golic was co-host of ESPN Radio's first morning show, \"The Bruno-Golic Morning Show,\" with talk radio veteran Tony Bruno. The program started in 1998 and ended in 1999 with Bruno's resignation from ESPN Radio. Golic worked with a series of co-hosts for the remainder of 1999.\n\nOn April 27, 2008, it was announced Golic would appear alongside football's greatest players in the PS3 and Xbox 360 game, \"All-Pro Football 2K8\".\n\nGolic made an appearance on ESPN's mini-series \"Tilt\". He can be seen during the final episode eating a donut at the buffet table. Mike also appeared with Mike Greenberg on the TV series \"Guiding Light\" in 2008.\n\nIn 2015, Golic was inducted into the National Wrestling Hall of Fame in the Outstanding American category, designated for those who have used wrestling as a stepping stone to success in other fields.\n\nGolic's older brother, Bob Golic, also played at University of Notre Dame. He earned multiple NFL All-Pro nose tackle honors and is currently a talk radio host Monday through Saturday on WNIR-FM in Akron, Ohio and co-hosts the Cleveland Browns television pre-game and post-game shows on Sundays on CBS affiliate WOIO-TV. Their father, Bob, also played football.\n\nMike and Bob appeared with their father and their brother Greg on the May 28, 2009 of \"Mike and Mike in the Morning\" broadcast from Progressive Field in Cleveland. The three Golic brothers again appeared together on \"Mike and Mike\" on May 7, 2010, May 9, 2012, and May 31, 2017 when the show broadcast from Progressive Field. Golic has stated numerous times on \"Mike and Mike\" he is a Cleveland Indians and a Cleveland Cavaliers fan.\n\nGolic resides in Avon, Connecticut, with his wife Christine. All three of Golic's children attended Notre Dame. His sons, Mike Jr. and Jake played football (Jake played the 2014–15 season with Cincinnati), while his daughter Sydney was a swimmer for the Irish. Mike Jr. signed with the Pittsburgh Steelers as an undrafted free agent following the 2013 NFL Draft.\n\nIn 2010, Golic co-wrote the book \"Mike and Mike's Rules for Sports and Life\" with co-host Mike Greenberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924751", "title": "David Ramsay (historian)", "text": "David Ramsay (historian)\n\nDavid Ramsay (April 2, 1749May 8, 1815) was an American physician, public official, and historian from Charleston, South Carolina. He was one of the first major historians of the American Revolutionary War. During the Revolution he served in the South Carolina legislature until he was captured by the British. After his release he served as a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1782–1783 and again in 1785–1786. Afterwards he served in the state House and Senate until retiring from public service. He was murdered in 1815 by a mentally ill man whom Ramsay had examined as a physician.\n\nDavid Ramsay was born in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, the son of an Irish emigrant. His brother was Nathaniel Ramsey, a Congressman and a brother-in-law of painter Charles Willson Peale.\n\nHe attended college at Princeton, and graduated in 1765. In 1773, he received his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania. Ramsay settled in Charleston, South Carolina, where he built a large practice as a physician.\n\nRamsay's first two marriages were brief, both ending with the death of his wife after one year. In 1775, he married Sabina Ellis (b. 1753), and in 1783, he married Frances Witherspoon (b. 1759). His second wife was the daughter of John Witherspoon, a signer of the Declaration of Independence and president of Princeton (then the College of New Jersey).\n\nOn January 28, 1787, Ramsay married Martha Laurens (1759–1811), daughter of Henry Laurens, a wealthy Charleston planter and Revolutionary War statesman who had been president of the Second Continental Congress. Through this marriage, Ramsay also became related to South Carolina governor Charles Pinckney, Ralph Izard, John Rutledge, Arthur Middleton, Daniel Huger, and Lewis Morris. David and Martha Laurens Ramsay had eleven children, eight of whom survived to adulthood.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, Ramsay served from 1776 to 1783 as a member of the South Carolina legislature.\n\nDuring the Siege of Charleston in 1780, when Charleston was attacked by the British, Ramsay served with the South Carolina militia as a field surgeon. He was captured when the British occupied Charleston, and was imprisoned for nearly a year at St. Augustine, Florida, until he was exchanged.\n\nRamsay served as a delegate to the Continental Congress from 1782 to 1786. In the absence of its chairman, John Hancock, Ramsay served as chairman of the Congress of the Confederation from November 23, 1785 to May 12, 1786.\n\nIn the 1790s, Ramsay served three terms in the South Carolina Senate, and was its president. During this time, Ramsay was nominated to the U.S. Senate, but his nomination was defeated on account of his abolitionist leanings.\n\nIn his own day, Ramsay was better known as a historian and author than as a politician. He was one of the American Revolution's first major historians, who wrote with knowledge and insights acquired by being personally involved in the events of the American Revolution.\n\nHis major historical works included:\n\nIn 1812, six weeks after the death of his wife Martha Laurens Ramsay, he published her diary and private letters under the title \"Memoirs of the Life of Martha Laurens Ramsay\". Her memoirs remain historically valuable as a chronicle of the life of a well-educated Southern woman during the American Revolutionary War and the early years of the nation, including while she took her mother's place as hostess for her father's political gatherings in the 1780s.\n\nRamsay's \"History of the American Revolution\" was one of the first and most accomplished histories to appear in the aftermath of that event, according to Karen O'Brien in 1994. O'Brien wrote that Ramsay's history challenges American exceptionalist literary frameworks by presenting itself within the European Enlightenment historical tradition, reflecting Ramsay's belief that the United States would have no historical destiny beyond typical patterns of European political and cultural development. Epic portrayals of American history in the 19th century were more the product of New England's historiographic traditions coupled with German historical thought, treating national character as a historical agent, rather than a historical result, as Ramsay suggests. Ramsay's history, then, is better considered the last of the European Enlightenment tradition than the first of American historical epics.\n\nHistorian Peter C. Messer, in 2002, examined the transition in Ramsay's republican perspective from his \"History of the American Revolution\" (1789) to his more conservative \"History of the United States\" (1816–17). His works went from a call for active citizens to reform and improve societal institutions to a warning of the dangers of an overzealous population and the need to preserve existing institutions. In his discussion of the treatment of Indians and African American slaves he became less critical of whites and changed to reflect the views of society at large. Ramsay's increasing involvement in South Carolina's economic and political institutions and the need for stability that defined early-19th-century nationalism influenced this transformation.\n\nRamsay was appointed by a court to examine one William Linnen, a tailor known for serial litigation and nuisance suits, after Linnen had attempted to murder his attorney. Ramsay reported to the court that Linnen was \"deranged\" and that it would be \"dangerous to let him go at large.\" After apparently regaining his sanity, Linnen was released; though he threatened Ramsay, the latter did not take the threat seriously.\n\nOn May 6, 1815, at 1:00 p.m., Ramsay passed Linnen on Broad Street in Charleston. Linnen took out a \"horseman's pistol\" that he had concealed in a handkerchief, and shot Ramsay twice, in the back and hip. According to a contemporary source:\n\nRamsay died at 7 a.m. on May 8, 1815. He was buried at the Circular Congregational Church in Charleston.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924762", "title": "Simon Inglis", "text": "Simon Inglis\n\nSimon Inglis is a British sports historian, architectural historian, writer and broadcaster, most notably about football and stadiums.\n\nInglis was born in Sparkhill, Birmingham in 1955 and was a pupil at King Edward's School, Edgbaston. He read History and the History of Architecture at University College London, later training as a teacher in Leeds and teaching history at a comprehensive in Walthamstow, North London. Inglis is editor of the \"Played in Britain\" series on sporting heritage, published from 2004-2015 by Historic England. He describes himself as a now mainly 'arms length' Aston Villa fan.\n\nIn December 2005 he was described as an \"iconoclastic historian\" and \"a national treasure who must be encouraged at all costs\". His illustrated biography of the Scottish football ground designer Archibald Leitch, \"Engineering Archie\", was runner up in the William Hill Sports Book of the Year Award 2005.\n\nInglis summarised Leitch's career for \"FourFourTwo\" magazine in 2015.\n\n\"Great Lengths, the historic indoor swimming pools of Britain\", which Inglis co-authored with Dr Ian Gordon, received wide praise in the national press.\n\nInglis' book \"Played in London, charting the heritage of a city at play\", was published in September 2014 to great acclaim. It was shortlisted for the William Hill Sports Book of the Year Award 2014, selected as Book of the Year by both the Londonist website and London Historians and described by the Mail Online as a \"remarkable book\" and a \"cracking good read\" by \"The Times\". Signed copies are available from Played in Britain \n\nIn August 2014 Inglis was chosen as a Listed Londoner for BBC Radio London's Robert Elms programme.\n\nIn 2015, inspired by the £1,000 free bet he received as a result of \"Played in London\" being shortlisted by William Hill, Inglis set out to discover whether he could earn more from betting cautiously with bookies than by putting the money into a building society. He ended up making 18.5 percent on his year's betting before donating the proceeds to charity.\n\nIn addition to his writing, Inglis is an accredited lecturer for The Arts Society (formerly the National Association of Decorative and Fine Arts Societies) and has given lectures at a wide range of institutions (including De Montfort University, Birkbeck College and the London College of Communications); societies (Victorian Society and the Twentieth Century Society); local history societies, sporting bodies and at both literary and history festivals. He also conducts tours of London football sites for visiting US colleges.\n\nInglis edited the fourth and sixth editions of the Government's \"Guide to Safety at Sports Grounds\" (the \"Green Guide\"), published in 1997 and 2018 respectively, and continues to work for the Sports Grounds Safety Authority in an editorial advisory capacity.\n\nHis photography has appeared in numerous books and publications. In 2019, his photographs taken for the \"Played in Britain\" series were deposited in the Historic England Archive. Material from his stadium collection has been donated to the De Montfort University Special Collections Archive.\n\nInglis is married to the former TV presenter Jackie Spreckley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924764", "title": "Hugh Rodman", "text": "Hugh Rodman\n\nAdmiral Hugh Rodman KCB (6 January 1859 – 7 June 1940) was an officer in the United States Navy who served during the Spanish–American War and World War I, later serving as the Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet from 1919 to 1921.\n\nBorn at Frankfort, Kentucky, Rodman graduated from the Naval Academy in 1880. Duty in , , , and , and tours at the Hydrographic Office and at the United States Naval Observatory were followed in 1891 by four years of survey duty along the coasts of Alaska and British Columbia.\n\nDuring the Spanish–American War, he served in and was commended for his outstanding conduct in the Battle of Manila Bay. In 1899, he participated in scientific explorations in the Pacific under the direction of Alexander Agassiz. Then, in 1900, he returned to Alaska for work investigating its fisheries. From 1901 to 1904 he commanded in Hawaiian waters. Next on the Asiatic Station, he served in , , and, in 1905, commanded the gunboat on the Yangtze River Patrol.\n\nFrom 1907 to 1909, he attended the Naval War College and served as Lighthouse Inspector, 6th Naval District. In 1909 he returned to the Far East to serve in turn as captain of the yard, Cavite, Philippine Islands, and as commanding officer of . Captain of the yard, Mare Island Navy Yard, in 1911, he assumed command of , flagship, Atlantic Fleet, in 1912, and of in 1913. Duty as Marine Superintendent of the Panama Canal followed in 1914, and in 1915 he commanded . During 1916 he served on the General Board.\n\nPromoted to the rank of rear admiral in 1917, Rodman served as commander of Battleship Division 9, Atlantic Fleet, in his flagship, \"New York\". Ordered to European waters late in the year, his division joined the British Grand Fleet at Scapa Flow and became the 6th Battle Squadron, British Grand Fleet, under Admiral Sir David Beatty. For the remainder of World War I, Admiral Rodman commanded his division in operations in the North Sea. For this service, he was invested as a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath by King George V and was awarded the Navy Distinguished Service Medal.\n\nReturning to the United States after the Armistice, he served with the Atlantic Fleet until July 1919 when he became Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Fleet. Detached in 1921, he served as Commandant, 5th Naval District, from 1921 to 1922, interrupting that duty once for a mission to Peru as Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary. During 1922–23, he was senior member of a board to formulate administrative policy for all shore stations and on reaching retirement age, 64, was transferred to the retired list.\n\nAfter his retirement, he continued to serve the United States and the navy on various missions which included, in the summer of 1923, accompanying President Warren G. Harding on his ill-fated inspection of Alaska. In 1937, he represented the U.S. Navy at King George VI's coronation ceremonies in London.\n\nAdmiral Rodman died at Bethesda, Maryland and is buried at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\n\nThe destroyer , the transport , and the U.S Navy Station Rodman in the Panama Canal Zone were named for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924767", "title": "Patience (opera)", "text": "Patience (opera)\n\nPatience; or, Bunthorne's Bride, is a comic opera in two acts with music by Arthur Sullivan and libretto by W. S. Gilbert. The opera is a satire on the aesthetic movement of the 1870s and '80s in England and, more broadly, on fads, superficiality, vanity, hypocrisy and pretentiousness; it also satirises romantic love, rural simplicity and military bluster.\n\nFirst performed at the Opera Comique, London, on 23 April 1881, \"Patience\" moved to the 1,292-seat Savoy Theatre on 10 October 1881, where it was the first theatrical production in the world to be lit entirely by electric light. Henceforth, the Gilbert and Sullivan comic operas would be known as the Savoy Operas, and both fans and performers of Gilbert and Sullivan would come to be known as \"Savoyards.\"\n\n\"Patience\" was the sixth operatic collaboration of fourteen between Gilbert and Sullivan. It ran for a total of 578 performances, which was seven more than the authors' earlier work, \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", and the second longest run of any work of musical theatre up to that time, after the operetta \"Les Cloches de Corneville\".\n\nThe opera is a satire on the aesthetic movement of the 1870s and '80s in England, part of the 19th-century European movement that emphasised aesthetic values over moral or social themes in literature, fine art, the decorative arts, and interior design. Called \"Art for Art's Sake\", the movement valued its ideals of beauty above any pragmatic concerns. Although the output of poets, painters and designers was prolific, some argued that the movement's art, poetry and fashion was empty and self-indulgent. That the movement was so popular and also so easy to ridicule as a meaningless fad helped make \"Patience\" a big hit. The same factors made a hit out of \"The Colonel\", a play by F. C. Burnand based partly on the satiric cartoons of George du Maurier in \"Punch\" magazine. \"The Colonel\" beat \"Patience\" to the stage by several weeks, but \"Patience\" outran Burnand's play. According to Burnand's 1904 memoir, Sullivan's friend the composer Frederic Clay leaked to Burnand the information that Gilbert and Sullivan were working on an \"æsthetic subject\", and so Burnand raced to produce \"The Colonel\" before \"Patience\" opened. Modern productions of \"Patience\" have sometimes updated the setting of the opera to an analogous era such as the hippie 1960s, making a flower-child poet the rival of a beat poet.\nThe two poets in the opera are given to reciting their own verses aloud, principally to the admiring chorus of rapturous maidens. The style of poetry Bunthorne declaims strongly contrasts with Grosvenor's. The former's, emphatic and obscure, bears a marked resemblance to Swinburne's poetry in its structure, style and heavy use of alliteration. The latter's \"idyllic\" poetry, simpler and pastoral, echoes elements of Coventry Patmore and William Morris. Gilbert scholar Andrew Crowther comments, \"Bunthorne was the creature of Gilbert's brain, not just a caricature of particular Aesthetes, but an original character in his own right.\" The makeup and costume adopted by the first Bunthorne, George Grossmith, used Swinburne's velvet jacket, the painter James McNeill Whistler's hairstyle and monocle, and knee-breeches like those worn by Oscar Wilde and others.\n\nAccording to Gilbert's biographer Edith Browne, the title character, Patience, was made up and costumed to resemble the subject of a Luke Fildes painting. \"Patience\" was not the first satire of the aesthetic movement played by Richard D'Oyly Carte's company at the Opera Comique. Grossmith himself had written a sketch in 1876 called \"Cups and Saucers\" that was revived as a companion piece to \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" in 1878, which was a satire of the blue pottery craze.\n\nA popular misconception holds that the central character of Bunthorne, a \"Fleshly Poet,\" was intended to satirise Oscar Wilde, but this identification is retrospective. According to some authorities, Bunthorne is inspired partly by the poets Algernon Charles Swinburne and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, who were considerably more famous than Wilde in early 1881 before Wilde published his first volume of poetry. Rossetti had been attacked for immorality by Robert Buchanan (under the pseudonym \"Thomas Maitland\") in an article called \"The Fleshly School of Poetry\", published in \"The Contemporary Review\" for October 1871, a decade before \"Patience\". Nonetheless, Wilde's biographer Richard Ellmann suggests that Wilde is a partial model for both Bunthorne and his rival Grosvenor. Carte, the producer of \"Patience\", was also Wilde's booking manager in 1881 as the poet's popularity took off. In 1882, after the New York production of \"Patience\" opened, Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte sent Wilde on a US lecture tour, with his green carnation and knee-breeches, to explain the English aesthetic movement, intending to help popularise the show's American touring productions.\n\nAlthough a satire of the aesthetic movement is dated today, fads and hero-worship are evergreen, and \"Gilbert’s pen was rarely sharper than when he invented Reginald Bunthorne\". Gilbert originally conceived \"Patience\" as a tale of rivalry between two curates and of the doting ladies who attended upon them. The plot and even some of the dialogue were lifted straight out of Gilbert's Bab Ballad \"The Rival Curates.\" While writing the libretto, however, Gilbert took note of the criticism he had received for his very mild satire of a clergyman in \"The Sorcerer\", and looked about for an alternative pair of rivals. Some remnants of the Bab Ballad version do survive in the final text of \"Patience.\" Lady Jane advises Bunthorne to tell Grosvenor: \"Your style is much too sanctified – your cut is too canonical!\" Later, Grosvenor agrees to change his lifestyle by saying, \"I do it on compulsion!\" – the very words used by the Reverend Hopley Porter in the Bab Ballad. Gilbert's selection of aesthetic poet rivals proved to be a fertile subject for topsy-turvy treatment. He both mocks and joins in Buchanan's criticism of what the latter calls the poetic \"affectations\" of the \"fleshly school\" – their use of archaic terminology, archaic rhymes, the refrain, and especially their \"habit of accenting the last syllable in words which in ordinary speech are accented on the penultimate.\" All of these poetic devices or \"mediaevalism's affectations\", as Bunthorne calls them, are parodied in \"Patience\". For example, accenting the last syllable of \"lily\" and rhyming it with \"die\" parodies two of these devices at once.\n\nOn 10 October 1881, during its original run, \"Patience\" transferred to the new Savoy Theatre, the first public building in the world lit entirely by electric light. Carte explained why he had introduced electric light: \"The greatest drawbacks to the enjoyment of the theatrical performances are, undoubtedly, the foul air and heat which pervade all theatres. As everyone knows, each gas-burner consumes as much oxygen as many people, and causes great heat beside. The incandescent lamps consume no oxygen, and cause no perceptible heat.\" When the electrical system was ready for full operation, in December 1881, Carte stepped on stage to demonstrate the safety of the new technology by breaking a glowing lightbulb before the audience.\n\n\n\nIn front of Castle Bunthorne, a group of \"lovesick maidens\" are all in love with the aesthetic poet Bunthorne (\"Twenty lovesick maidens we\"). Lady Jane, the oldest and plainest of the ladies, informs them that Bunthorne, far from returning their affections, has his heart set on the simple milkmaid Patience. Patience appears and confesses that she has never loved anyone; she is thankful that love has not turned her miserable as it has them (\"I cannot tell what this love may be\"). Soon, the ladies' old sweethearts, the Dragoon Guards, appear (\"The soldiers of our Queen\"), led by Colonel Calverley (\"If you Want a Receipt for that Popular Mystery\"), Major Murgatroyd, and the droopy but immensely rich Lieutenant the Duke of Dunstable. They arrive ready to propose, only to discover their intendeds fawning over Bunthorne, who is in the throes of poetical composition, pretending to ignore the attention of the ladies thronging around him (\"In a doleful train\"). Bunthorne reads his poem and departs, while the officers are coldly rebuffed and mocked by the aesthetic ladies, who turn their noses up at the sight of their red and yellow uniforms. The Dragoons, reeling from the insult, depart (\"When I first put this uniform on\").\nBunthorne, left alone, confesses that his aestheticism is a sham, and mocks the movement's pretensions (\"If you're anxious for to shine\"). Soon, he reveals to Patience that, like her, he does not really like poetry, but she tells him that she could not love him. Later, Lady Angela, one of Bunthorne's admirers, explores with Patience the latter's childhood crush (\"Long years ago\"). Lady Angela rhapsodises upon love as the one truly unselfish pursuit in the world. Impressed by this eloquence, Patience promises to fall in love at the earliest opportunity. That opportunity is provided by the arrival of Archibald Grosvenor, another aesthetic poet who turns out to be Patience's childhood love. He has grown up to be the infallible, widely loved poet known as \"Archibald the All-Right\" (\"Prithee, pretty maiden\"). The two declare themselves in love but are brought up short by the realisation that as Grosvenor is a perfect being, for Patience to love him would be a selfish act, and therefore not true love; thus, they must part.\nBunthorne, heartbroken by Patience's rejection, has chosen to raffle himself off among his lady followers (\"Let the merry cymbals sound\"), the proceeds going to charity. The Dragoons interrupt the proceedings, and, led by the Duke, attempt to reason with the ladies (\"Your maiden hearts, ah, do not steel\"), but the ladies are too busy clamouring for tickets to the raffle to listen (\"Come walk up\"). Just as Bunthorne is handing the bag to the unattractive Jane, ready for the worst, Patience interrupts the proceedings and proposes to unselfishly sacrifice herself by loving the poet (\"True Love must single-hearted be\"). A delighted Bunthorne accepts immediately, and his followers, their idol lost, return to the Dragoons to whom they are engaged (\"I hear the soft note of the echoing voice\"). All seems resolved until Grosvenor enters and the ladies, finding him poetic, aesthetic, and far more attractive than Bunthorne, become his partisans instead (\"Oh, list while we a love confess\"), much to the dismay of the Dragoons, Patience, Bunthorne and especially Grosvenor himself.\n\nAct II<br>\n\nLady Jane, accompanying herself on the cello, laments the passing of the years and expresses her hope that Bunthorne will \"secure\" her before it is too late (\"Silvered is the raven hair\"). Meanwhile, Grosvenor wearily entertains the ladies (\"A magnet hung in a hardware shop\") and begs to be given a half-holiday from their cloying attentions. The Dragoons' Major, Colonel, and Duke attempt to earn their partners' love through an effort to convert to the principles of aestheticism (\"It's clear that mediaeval art\"). Then Patience confesses her affection for Grosvenor to Bunthorne, who is naturally furious at the revelation.\n\nConfronting Grosvenor, Bunthorne threatens him with a dire curse unless he undertakes to become a perfectly ordinary young man. Grosvenor, intimidated, but also pleased at the excuse to escape the celebrity caused by his \"fatal beauty\", agrees to do so. This plot backfires, however, when Grosvenor reappears as an ordinary man; the ladies follow him into ordinariness, becoming \"matter-of-fact young girls.\" Patience realises that Grosvenor has lost his perfection in her eyes – and that it therefore will not be so selfish for her to marry him, which she undertakes to do without delay. The ladies, following suit, return to their old fiancés among the Dragoons. In the spirit of fairness, the Duke chooses the \"plain\" Lady Jane as his bride, for her very lack of appeal. Bunthorne is left to the \"vegetable\" love that he has claimed (falsely) to desire most of all. Thus, echoing the subtitle of the piece, everyone sings that \"Nobody [is] 'Bunthorne's bride.'\"\n\n\n\n\n This was originally followed by a song for the Duke, \"Though men of rank may useless seem.\" The orchestration survives in Sullivan's autograph score, but without a vocal line. There have been several attempts at a reconstruction, including one by David Russell Hulme that was included on the 1994 new D'Oyly Carte Opera Company recording.\n\n\"Note on topical references:\"\nSongs and dialogue in \"Patience\" contain many topical references to persons and events of public interest in 1881. In particular, the Colonel's song, Act I, item 3a above, is almost entirely composed of such references. The of the opera contains links explaining these references.\n\nThe original run of \"Patience\" in London, split across two theatres, was the second longest of the Gilbert and Sullivan series, eclipsed only by \"The Mikado\". The original sets were designed by John O'Connor. Its first London revival was in 1900, making it the last of the revivals for which all three partners (Gilbert, Sullivan, and D'Oyly Carte) were alive. At that time, Gilbert admitted some doubts as to whether the æsthetic subject would still be appreciated, years after the fad had died out. Gilbert wrote to Sullivan after the premiere of this revival (which the composer was too ill to attend), \"The old opera woke up splendidly.\"\n\nIn the British provinces, \"Patience\" played – either by itself, or in repertory – continuously from summer 1881 to 1885, then again in 1888. It rejoined the touring repertory in 1892 and was included in every season until 1955–56. New costumes were designed in 1907 by Percy Anderson, in 1918 by Hugo Rumbold and in 1928 by George Sheringham, who also designed a new set that year. New designs by Peter Goffin debuted in 1957. The opera returned to its regular place in the repertory, apart from a break in 1962–63. Late in the company's history, it toured a reduced set of operas to reduce costs. \"Patience\" had its final D'Oyly Carte performances in April 1979 and was left out of the company's last three seasons of touring.\n\nIn America, Richard D'Oyly Carte mounted a production at the Standard Theatre in September 1881, six months after the London premiere. One of the \"pirated\" American productions of \"Patience\" starred the young Lillian Russell. In Australia, the opera's first authorised performance was on 26 November 1881 at the Theatre Royal, Sydney, produced by J. C. Williamson.\n\n\"Patience\" entered the repertory of the English National Opera in 1969, in an acclaimed production with Derek Hammond-Stroud as Bunthorne. The production was later mounted in Australia and was preserved on video as part of the Brent Walker series. In 1984, ENO also took the production on tour to the Metropolitan Opera House, in New York City.\n\nThe following table shows the history of the D'Oyly Carte productions in Gilbert's lifetime:\nThe following tables show the casts of the principal original productions and D'Oyly Carte Opera Company touring repertory at various times through to the company's 1982 closure:\n\nOf the recordings of this opera, the 1961 D'Oyly Carte Opera Company recording (with complete dialogue) has been the best received. Two videos, Brent Walker (1982) and Australian Opera (1995), are both based on the respected English National Opera production first seen in the 1970s. A D'Oyly Carte production was broadcast on BBC2 television on 27 December 1965, but the recording is believed lost. Several professional productions have been recorded on video by the International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival since 2000.\n\n\nOscar Brand and Joni Mitchell recorded \"Prithee Pretty Maiden\" for the Canadian folk music TV program \"Let's Sing Out\", broadcast by CBC Television in 1966.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924777", "title": "Belair (airline)", "text": "Belair (airline)\n\nBelair, legally \"Belair Airlines AG\", was a Swiss airline headquartered in Glattbrugg operating out of Zürich Airport and EuroAirport Basel–Mulhouse–Freiburg. Belair was a subsidiary of Air Berlin and operated under the Air Berlin brand name until the 31 March 2017. During the 2017 summer season, it flew on behalf of its sister company Niki and was shuttered by then-bankrupt Air Berlin on 28 October 2017.\n\nBasler Aviation AG -Balair- was founded by Balz Zimmermann in 1925 in Basel. The name Balair is a reference to the French name of the Basel: Bâle. The first route was from Basel to Freiburg and Mannheim. Balair grew rapidly. In 1929 Basel Airport was the largest airport in Switzerland, with direct flights to Zurich, Geneva, Lyon, Karlsruhe and Frankfurt. In response to the Great Depression, Balair (based in Basel) and Ad Astra Aero (based in Zurich) merged on 1 January 1931 to form Swissair, headquartered in Zurich. Up to that point, Balair had carried over 18,000 passengers, 320 tons of cargo and 143 tons of mail. The company only flew in the summer and was mainly financed by federal subsidies and transportation of mail for the Swiss post office.\n\nThe second Balair was founded in January 1953. On 5 October 1952, the Basel electorate voted for the creation of a limited company. Hans Peter Tschudin was elected the first president. In its early years, Balair was active in flight training, aircraft maintenance and handling Swissair aircraft at Basel-Mulhouse Airport. In 1957, Balair entered the charter business with two Vickers 610 Viking aircraft. In 1959 Swissair acquired a 40% stake in Balair. Two Swissair DC-4 aircraft were added to the fleet.\n\nDuring the Biafran airlift (1967–71), chartered Balair aircraft, including C-97 Stratocruisers, delivered humanitarian aid to a remote Biafran airstrip in eastern Nigeria.\n\nIn 1979 Balair added a DC-10 (call sign HB-IHK) to its fleet. Until then, the fleet was made up of a DC-6, a DC-9 and two DC-8s. Later, Swissair operated charter flights using the Balair name.\n\nIn 1993 the two subsidiaries -Balair charter and CTA – Compagnie de Transport Aérien (Geneva) were merged and named Balair-CTA. For political reasons, the registered office of the company was in Geneva and the accounting department, in Basel. The operational base was moved to Zurich. Despite restructuring and mass layoffs, the Swissair charter business was unprofitable. Operations ended in 1995. Short-haul operations were transferred to Crossair and long-haul operations, to Swissair.\n\nIn 1997, Swissair's charter business was outsourced again and on 1 November 1997 Balair-CTA resumed operations as a subsidiary of Swissair, reverting to the Balair name. On short and medium-haul routes, two Boeing 757-200 were operated exclusively for tour operator Hotelplan and its subsidiaries ESCO-Reise and M-Travel. The lessee was also Hotelplan. Balair also had two Boeing 767-300 for long-haul operations. The new Balair was affected by the failure of Swissair. On 5 October 2001, the last Balair flight landed in Zurich. The Boeing 767 were returned to the lessor.\n\nAfter consulting Migros (its parent company), Hotelplan founded a new charter airline, Belair Airlines, and transferred their Boeing 757s to it. It was entered into the commercial register on 16 October. The minor name change meant it was possible to repaint the two Migros-owned Boeing 757s with very little effort. 120 Balair employees were employed by the new company.\n\nThe first Belair commercial flight took place on 3 November 2001, departing from Zurich. Flights were mainly to Mediterranean resorts. Besides the two Boeing 757-200s (HB-IHR and HB-IHS) it operated, Belair also leased a Boeing 767-300 (HB-ISE) for long-haul operations.\n\nAs part of the partnership with REGA (Swiss Air Rescue), 757 HB-IHR was redesigned by Belair to be used as a rescue aircraft for repatriations in case of disasters.\n\nAir Berlin acquired 49% of Belair in 2007 and fully owned Belair after October 2009. This increased Air Berlin's presence in Switzerland and provided Migros customers access to more flights. While Air Berlin owned Belair, Belair was managed from Berlin and Air Berlin only published consolidated financial statements. Air Berlin Switzerland (Air Berlin pilots), the CHS Switzerland (Air Berlin flight attendants) and Belair were combined to form the new company Belair on 1 January 2010.\n\nBelair flew from Zurich, Basel and Geneva to Mediterranean destinations and the Canary Islands. The aircraft used to have \"Belair\" signage combined with Air Berlin's corporate design, but then wore Air Berlin's livery. Due to bilateral traffic rights, certain routes to non-EU countries continued to use Belair's IATA code, 4T.\n\nOn 15 January 2017, it was announced that Belair will be shut down and that all routes from EuroAirport Basel Mulhouse Freiburg.\n\nOn 1 April 2017, the four Airbus A321 began to operate on behalf of Niki and switched from Air Berlin to Niki flight numbers on routes to EU destinations.\n\nBelair ceased operations on 28 October 2017. In December 2017, it was reported that Belair lacked the funds to pay outstanding salaries and other expenses and might face bankruptcy.\n\nThese are the final destinations of Belair prior to its shutdown on 28 October 2017:\n\nAs of August 2017, the Belair fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n"}
{"id": "1924778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924778", "title": "Dave Revsine", "text": "Dave Revsine\n\nDave Revsine (born July 20, 1969 in Urbana, Illinois), is an American sportscaster, and sports columnist and journalist who currently serves as the lead studio host for the Big Ten Network. Previously, he was a journalist at ESPN anchoring on \"SportsCenter\" and ESPNEWS, along with play-by-play on select college basketball games.\n\nRevsine attended Glenbrook North High School and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Northwestern University in 1991. While at Northwestern, Revsine was heavily involved in broadcasting and became a sportscaster on WNUR Radio. Awarded a Rotary Ambassadorial Scholarship, Revsine lived abroad for a year after college. As a Rotary Scholar he attended Trinity College, Dublin and played on the school's basketball team.\n\nPrior to becoming a sports journalist, Revsine was an investment banker at Chase Manhattan Bank in New York City. He worked there for one year prior to landing a job on TV as a Sports Anchor and Reporter at KXII-TV in Sherman, Texas. Shortly after, he worked in the Quad Cities for CBS affiliate WHBF-TV before being hired by ESPN in 1996.\n\nIn his 10 years at ESPN, Revsine covered a wide range of programs including SportsCenter, College GameNight, NFL Live, and Outside the Lines. He also did play-by-play for roughly 25 college basketball games each year on ESPN and ESPN2.\n\nIn May, 2007, he announced his departure from ESPN to join the Big Ten Network as their lead studio host. Revsine officially left the network in late June of that year.\n\nHis words were the first ever on the Big Ten Network:\n\n\"“Eleven schools, 252 varsity teams, one great network to cover it all. Welcome to the Big Ten Network, your ultimate source for Big Ten sports, featuring the games, passion and tradition of the nation’s foremost athletic conference.”\" – August 30, 2007\n\nCurrently, Revsine hosts Big Ten Tonight and Big Ten Football Saturday on the Big Ten Network as well as the NFL Mobile Gamecenter on Sprint Exclusive Entertainment. Revsine is also the author of the Numbers blog on BigTenNetwork.com and is featured on Comcast.net College Hoopla at win.comcast.net.\n\nIn 2014, Revsine's first book, \"The Opening Kickoff: The Tumultuous Birth of a Football Nation\", was released. It has received widespread critical acclaim, and made both \"The New York Times\" and \"Boston Globe\" Best-Seller lists.\n"}
{"id": "1924786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924786", "title": "Roseworthy, South Australia", "text": "Roseworthy, South Australia\n\nRoseworthy is a small town in South Australia, about 10 km north of Gawler on the Horrocks Highway. At the 2016 census, Roseworthy had a population of 994.\n\nRoseworthy has a large grain storage facility consisting of both storage silos and bunkers for grain grown in the surrounding areas, and grain is now taken by road transport to Port Adelaide for export where it was once taken by rail. Roseworthy is the junction of the former Peterborough railway line and Morgan railway lines, both constructed as broad gauge railway lines (although the Peterborough line was originally narrow gauge from Terowie to Peterborough), and remained that gauge for their entire service. Both lines were originally built to support export from copper mines, respectively at Burra and Kapunda before being extended beyond those towns. The railways later served primarily to carry grain to port instead of copper, but have now been supplanted by road transport.\n\nThe Roseworthy campus of the University of Adelaide is the location of Australia's newest Vet School. The School of Animal & Veterinary Sciences provides education and training of animal and veterinary scientists in a research environment. The School offers three academic programs: Animal Science, Veterinary Bioscience and Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM).\n\nRoseworthy is a popular stop for many truck drivers with the Roseworthy Roadhouse often bustling with resting travellers and transport drivers as they traverse along the Horrocks Highway.\n\nRoseworthy is in the Light Regional Council, the state electoral district of Schubert and the federal divisions of Barker and Grey.\n\nThe Surveyor General of South Australia visited the site which would become Roseworthy on 13 December 1837. In 1855 land in the Hundred of Mudla Wirra was purchased by William and Grace Gartrell. In 1863 when William died Grace sub-divided the land and named it Roseworthy.\n"}
{"id": "1924788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924788", "title": "Bonch-Bruyevich", "text": "Bonch-Bruyevich\n\nBonch-Bruevich is the last name of the following persons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924791", "title": "Gmelina arborea", "text": "Gmelina arborea\n\nGmelina arborea, (in English beechwood, gmelina, goomar teak, Kashmir tree, Malay beechwood, white teak, yamane ), locally known as gamhar, is a fast-growing deciduous tree in the family Lamiaceae.\n\n\"Gmelina arborea\" is a fast-growing tree, which grows on different localities and prefers moist fertile valleys with 750–4500 mm rainfall. It does not thrive on ill-drained soils and remains stunted on dry, sandy or poor soils; drought also reduces it to a shrubby form. The tree attains moderate to large heights of up to 30 m, with a girth of 1.2 to 4 m. It has a chlorophyll layer just under the outer bark, which is pale yellow on the outside and white inside.\n\n\"Gmelina arborea\" wood is pale yellow to cream-coloured or pinkish-buff when fresh, turning yellowish brown on exposure and is soft to moderately hard, light to moderately heavy, lustrous when fresh, usually straight to irregular or rarely wavy grained and medium course textured. Flowering takes place during February to April when the tree is more or less leafless whereas fruiting starts from May onwards up to June. The fruit is up to 2.5 cm long, smooth, dark green, turning yellow when ripe and has a fruity smell.\n\nThis tree is commonly planted as a garden and an avenue tree; growing in villages along agricultural land and on village community lands and wastelands. It is light demander, tolerant of excessive drought, but moderately frost hardy. It has good capacity to recover from frost injury. Gamhar trees coppices very well with vigorous growth. Saplings and young plants need protection from deer and cattle.\n\n\"Gmelina arborea\" grows naturally throughout India, Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and in southern provinces of China. It is found at altitudes from sea level to . Since the 1960s, it has been introduced extensively as fast-growing timber trees in Brazil, Gambia, Honduras, Ivory Coast, Malaysia, Malawi, Nigeria, the Philippines, and Sierra Leone. It is also planted in gardens and avenues.\n\n\"Gmelina arborea\" timber is reasonably strong for its weight. It is used in construction, furniture, carriages, sports, musical instruments and artificial limbs. Once seasoned, it is a very steady timber and moderately resistant to decay and ranges from very resistant to moderately resistant to termites.\nIts timber is highly esteemed for door and window panels, joinery and furniture especially for drawers, wardrobes, cupboards, kitchen and camp furniture, and musical instruments because of its light weight, stability and durability. It is also used for bentwood articles. In boat building it is used for decking and for oars. \"Gmelina arborea\" is a popular timber for picture and slate frames, turnery articles and various types of brush backs, brush handles and toys also for handles of chisels, files, saws, screw drivers, sickles etc. The wood is also used for manufacturing tea chests and general purpose plywood, blackboards, frame core and cross bands of flush door shutters. In the instrument industry gambhar timber is widely employed for the manufacture of drawing boards, plane tables, instrument boxes, thermometer scales and cheaper grade metric scales. It is also used in artificial limbs, carriages and bobbins. It is an approved timber for handles of tennis rackets, frames and reinforcements of carom boards and packing cases and crates. Gamhar is used in papermaking and in the matchwood industry too.\n\nThe Lion Throne, the most important, and last surviving, of the eight royal thrones of Myanmar, now in the National Museum in Yangon, is carved from \"Gmelina arborea\" wood.\n\n\"Gmelina arborea\" leaves are considered good for cattle (crude protein – 11.9%) and are also used as a feed to eri-silkworm.\n\n'Kumizh tree' when burnt yields the whitest possible ash; mention is made by certain 'rock art enthusiasts' that this ash is one of the ingredients in the semi-solid white ochre used to draw the very ancient 'cave paintings,' as old as 3,000 to 5,000 years or more; found in the dense forests of Tamil Nadu.\n\n\"Gmelina arborea\" wood\n\nLignans, such as 6\" - bromo - isoarboreol, 4-hydroxysesamin, 4,8-dihydroxysesamin, 1,4-dihydroxysesamin (gummadiol), 2-piperonyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-(α-hydroxy-3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)-4-hydroxytetrahydrofuran and the 4-O-glucoside of 4-epigummadiol, can be isolated from the heartwood of \"Gmelina arborea\". The parent compounds are arboreol or gmelanone.\n\nUmbelliferone 7-apiosylglucoside can be isolated from the root.\n\nFive constituents, isolated from the heartwood of \"G. arborea\", (+)-7′-O-ethyl arboreol, (+)-paulownin, (+)-gmelinol, (+)-epieudesmin and (−)-β-sitosterol, show antifungal activity against \"Trametes versicolor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1924803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924803", "title": "United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest 2005", "text": "United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest 2005\n\nThe United Kingdom was represented in the Eurovision Song Contest 2005 by \"Touch My Fire\" performed by Javine.\n\nJavine Hylton was born on 27 December 1981 and as a youngster enjoyed listening to her mother's collection of soul and reggae albums. At the age of 10, she was offered an arts scholarship. Modelling and appearances in pop videos followed before winning the coveted role of Nala in the West End production of Disney's \"The Lion King\" at the age of 19. The role was incidentally later played by the British 2009 entrant Jade Ewen.\n\nIn 2002 Hylton took part in the ITV show \"\", but missed out on a place in the winning band, Girls Aloud. She later established herself as a solo UK R&B singer before taking part in \"\".\n\nThe five acts taking part were Andy Scott-Lee, Australian-born Gina G (who famously represented the United Kingdom in 1996, coming 8th with \"Ooh Aah... Just a Little Bit\"), Javine, Katie Price (otherwise known as Jordan), and Tricolore.\n\nMaking Your Mind Up 2005 was held on 5 March 2005, presented by Terry Wogan and Natasha Kaplinsky. The winner was decided by regional televoting. Each region awarded 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 points to the five most popular songs, with votes from the internet being counted as an additional region for this purpose. Representatives for each region of the United Kingdom presented their votes - James Fox for Wales, Fearne Cotton for South East England, Justin Ryan and Colin McAllister for Scotland, Zöe Salmon for Northern Ireland, Denise Lewis for the Midlands and Sharron Davies for South West England. After the regional votes, each song's score was 'topped up' with one point for each percentage of the text votes received. The final was won by Javine, who represented the UK at the Eurovision Song Contest 2005 final in Kiev, Ukraine with the song \"Touch My Fire\". The song was written by Javine, who also composed it with John Themis.\n\nAt the final of the Contest, the song received 18 points and finished in 22nd place. The spokesperson who revealed the United Kingdom's votes for other countries was Cheryl Baker, part of Bucks Fizz which won the 1981 Contest for the United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "1924818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924818", "title": "Incident book", "text": "Incident book\n\nAn incident book is a book used for recording injuries, crimes, and other incidents; they are included in British police boxes, hospitals, and other locations in which an incident is to be reported or treated.\n"}
{"id": "1924820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924820", "title": "The Seinfeld Chronicles", "text": "The Seinfeld Chronicles\n\n\"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" (also known as \"Good News, Bad News\" or \"Pilot\") is the pilot episode of the American sitcom \"Seinfeld\", which first aired on NBC on July 5, 1989.\n\nThe first of the 180 \"Seinfeld\" episodes, the pilot was written by show creators Larry David and Jerry Seinfeld, and directed by Art Wolff. The episode revolves around a fictionalized version of Seinfeld, who is unsure about the romantic intentions of a woman he met, and frets about the meaning of her signals with his friend George (Jason Alexander) and neighbor Kessler (Michael Richards, whose character would later be renamed \"Kramer\").\n\nThough they had been asked to put together a 90-minute TV special, Seinfeld and David wrote a TV pilot as they felt their \"show about nothing\" concept would fit better in the shorter, more conventional half-hour format. The storyline, and the main characters, were inspired by real-life events and people. Though the NBC executives were unsure about the show, they, as Warren Littlefield would later state, \"all said, ah what the hell, let's try a pilot on this thing and see what happens\". The test audiences, however, reacted extremely negatively. Although NBC would still broadcast the episode to see how audiences and TV critics would react, the network had already decided not to pick up the show, as a result of the test results. Castle Rock Entertainment, which produced this pilot (and the series proper), also had another pilot produced for NBC featuring actress Ann Jillian in her own eponymous series. After the poor reception of \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\", the production company turned to Jillian's series, which tested better and had earned a full-season order; it would only last a single 13-episode season before being cancelled by the end of 1990.\n\nWhen \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" aired, it was watched by nearly 11% of American households, and received generally favorable reviews from critics, who reacted with disappointment that NBC did not order a first season. Convinced that the show had potential, and supported by the positive reviews, NBC executive Rick Ludwin managed to convince his superiors to order a four-episode first season (the smallest order in US TV history), by offering a part of his personal budget in return. The show, renamed \"Seinfeld\", would go on to become the most successful sitcom in television history.\n\nThe series opens with Jerry Seinfeld (Jerry Seinfeld) and George Costanza (Jason Alexander) seated at Pete's Luncheonette, debating the placement of one of George's shirt buttons. Jerry tells George about a woman he met in Lansing, Michigan, Laura (Pamela Brull), who is coming to New York, and the two discuss whether or not she has romantic intentions. The next evening, Jerry tells his neighbor Kessler (Michael Richards) that he thinks he misunderstood the situation with Laura. However, he then receives a telephone call from Laura, who asks if she can stay overnight at his apartment. Though Jerry agrees, he is still unsure whether or not her visit is intended to be romantic. George and Jerry continue to debate the issue, with Jerry determined to find the true nature of her visit.\n\nWhile waiting at the airport for Laura to arrive, Jerry and George try to identify the possible signals Laura might give upon her arrival, with George explaining the meaning of various greetings. However, when Laura arrives, her greeting is ambiguous. Upon arriving at Jerry's apartment Laura removes her shoes and some excess clothing to get comfortable, asks for wine, and turns down the light and asks if she can stay over a second night. As Jerry removes his own shoes and begins to grow confident, the phone rings for Laura. When Laura gets off the phone she tells Jerry: \"Never get engaged.\" Jerry then realizes that he has no chance with Laura, but has already committed himself – and his one-bedroom apartment – to an entire weekend with her, including a five-hour sightseeing boat ride around Manhattan.\n\n\"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" was written as the pilot for the show that would eventually be called \"Seinfeld\", though earlier versions of the script would refer to the program as \"Stand Up\" and \"The Jerry Seinfeld Show\". The idea for the show started on November 2, 1988, after NBC executives had approached comedian Jerry Seinfeld to do a project with the network, upon a suggestion by George Shapiro, Seinfeld's manager at the time. Seinfeld enlisted fellow comedian Larry David to help him develop it, and they wrote a concept for a 90-minute-special (that was to air one weekend in place of Saturday Night Live) about how comedians get their material. However, upon further discussion, Seinfeld felt that the concept could not be sustained for 90 minutes, and the two decided that the project was to become a pilot for a series rather than a special. Developed by NBC executive Rick Ludwin, and produced by Castle Rock Entertainment, it was a mix of Seinfeld's stand-up comedy routines and idiosyncratic, conversational scenes focusing on mundane aspects of everyday life.\n\nConceived as a \"show about nothing,\" in which the main characters would \"just make fun of stuff\", Seinfeld said that the idea of the pilot episode was to explore the \"gaps in society where there are no rules.\" The storyline, as well as most of the main characters, were inspired by the personal lives of its creators. Jerry was a fictionalized version of Seinfeld, George a fictionalized version of Larry David and Kessler was based on David's neighbor Kenny Kramer. Though Seinfeld was initially concerned the \"wacky neighbor\" would be too much of a cliché, David convinced him to put the character in the script. However, anticipating that the actual Kramer would exploit the benefits of having a TV character based on him, David hesitated to call the character Kramer. Thus, in the pilot, the character's name was \"Kessler\". However, intrigued by the name, Seinfeld was convinced that the character's name should be Kramer, prompting Kenny Kramer to call NBC's legal department with various financial and legal demands, most of which he received. The name inconsistency would eventually be addressed in the season 9 episode \"The Betrayal\" in which Kramer explains that Kessler is the name on his apartment buzzer.\n\nDavid and Seinfeld re-wrote the script several times before submitting it to the network, dropping and adding various elements. Originally George, who was called Bennett in early drafts, was a comedian as well, and the first scene of the episode focused on Jerry and George discussing their stand-up material. The character of Kramer, was not included in the first draft of the script, and in another draft he was called \"Hoffman\". Another element that was added was Kessler's dog, since it was originally planned that Jerry's stand-up routines would match the events of each episode. Though the stand-up routine about dogs was eventually dropped, the scene in which Kessler enters with his dog remained in the episode. When David and Seinfeld eventually submitted the script, the network executives were unsure whether or not to produce the pilot, but as NBC executive Warren Littlefield would later state \"we all said, ah what the hell, let's try a pilot on this thing and see what happens\".\n\nDirected by Art Wolff, the pilot was filmed in front of a live studio audience on April 27, 1989, at Stage 9 of Ren-Mar Studios, the same studio where \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\" was filmed, which was seen by the crew as a good omen. The exterior of Pete's Luncheonette, the restaurant in which the episode opens, was a leftover set piece from \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\" (1984). Seinfeld's stand-up routine was recorded at Ren-Mar Studios in Hollywood, in front of an audience of paid extras, though not all of the recorded material was included in the broadcast version. Additionally, a scene was recorded featuring Jerry and George driving to the airport talking about changing lanes on the road and giving \"Thank you waves\", but was cut before broadcasting. The music used in the episode was composed by Jep Epstein; however, when the show was picked up, Epstein's tune was replaced by the trademark slap bass music by Jonathan Wolff.\n\n\"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" featured four characters that were intended to be series regulars if the show was to be picked-up for a first season: Jerry, George, Kramer and Claire the waitress. Though it was already settled that Seinfeld would play a fictionalized version of himself, auditions were held for the other three characters. Though George was based on Larry David, David was keen on writing, and did not have the desire to portray the character himself. Prior to the casting progress, Seinfeld pleaded with his friend Jake Johannsen to play the part, but he rejected it. When the casting process started, as casting director Marc Hirschfeld stated, the casting crew \"saw every actor [they] could possibly see in Los Angeles\". Among these actors were Larry Miller (Seinfeld's best friend), Brad Hall, David Alan Grier, and Nathan Lane yet none of them seemed fit for the part. Jason Alexander auditioned for the part via a video tape, though he had very little hope for being cast, as he felt he was doing a Woody Allen impression. However, upon watching the tape, David and Seinfeld were immediately convinced Alexander would be the right actor to cast. However, casting sessions traditionally work with rounds, so Alexander and a few other actors considered for the role were flown to Los Angeles for a second audition. One of the other actors who made it to this round was Larry Miller. As Alexander knew Miller was a close friend of Seinfeld, he was convinced he would not get the part, but eventually did.\n\nKenny Kramer initially demanded that he would play the part of Kessler, as he served as the inspiration for the character. However, David did not want this and it was decided upon that casting sessions would be held. Among those who auditioned for the part of Kramer were Steve Vinovich, Tony Shalhoub and Larry Hankin. Although he was not cast for the part Hankin would later portray an in-show fictional version of Kramer in the season four episode \"The Pilot\". Seinfeld and David were both familiar with Michael Richards, and David had worked with him on \"Fridays\". Richards did his final audition at the Century Plaza Hotel on April 18, 1989, reputedly finishing with a handstand. David was not sure about casting Richards, as he was trying to cast an actor who resembled the original Kramer. However, impressed by Richards' audition, Seinfeld convinced David that Richards would be the right actor for the part.\n\nLee Garlington was cast as Claire the Waitress, who in an earlier draft of the episode was called \"Meg\". Though initially cast as a series regular, the character was replaced with Elaine Benes when the series was picked up for a first season. Accounts differ on the reason why the character was replaced. Warren Littlefield has said that it was because the character's occupation: \"I thought that as a waitress she'd never be one of the gang. She'd be relegated to pouring coffee, catching up. So I insisted they create a female character they wanted to spend time with\". Dennis Bjorklund of \"Seinfeld Reference\" has suggested that the character was dropped in favor of a female character with more sex appeal. However, Alexander said that Garlington was written out of the series because she had re-written her scene and given it to David, who was not happy with this. Seinfeld has, however, stated that this was not the reason the character was removed from the show, but rather that the producers were looking for \"someone who was more involved\". Julia Louis-Dreyfus, who would go on to replace Garlington, has stated that she was not aware of the pilot before becoming a regular on the show, and she will never watch it out of superstition.\n\nThe pilot was first screened by a group of two dozen NBC executives in Burbank, California in early 1989. Although the pilot did not yield the explosion of laughter garnered by the pilots for the decade's previous NBC successes like \"The Cosby Show\" and \"The Golden Girls\", it drew mostly positive responses from the assembled executives. One exception was Brandon Tartikoff, who was concerned that the show was \"Too New York, too Jewish\". Before the episode's TV premiere it was shown to a test audience of 400 households, and met with extremely negative responses. Littlefield would later recall \"In the history of pilot reports, \"Seinfeld\" has got to be one of the worst of all time\". The memo that summarized the test audience's reaction, contained feedback such as \"No segment of the audience was eager to watch the show again\" and \"None of the [supporting characters] were particularly liked\". Despite the low rating the show received from its test audience, the first public broadcast of \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" took place on the fifth of July 1989, to see how viewers would react, even though the executives had already decided the show would not be picked-up for a full season. \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" finished second in its time slot, behind the CBS police drama \"Jake and the Fatman\", receiving a Nielsen rating of 10.9/19, meaning that the pilot was watched by 10.9% of American households, and that 19% of all televisions in use at the time were tuned into it. With these ratings \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" finished in the 21st place of the week it was broadcast, tied with Fox's \"Totally Hidden Video\".\n\nUnlike the test audience, television critics generally reacted positively to the pilot, viewing it as original and innovative, \"USA Today\" critic Tom Green summarized the show as a \"crisply funny blend of stand-up routines interwoven with more traditional sitcom stuff\". Eric Mink of \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" wrote he thought the show was unusual and intriguing, yet \"quite funny\". Joe Stein of the \"San Diego Evening Tribune\" commented \"Not all standup comedians fit into a sitcom format, but Seinfeld does\". A more negative response came from a \"The Fresno Bee\" critic, that stated \"I liked the concept, but Seinfeld's jokes were so dull that you hoped the standup stuff would fly by so you could get back to the story\". Though the critic praised Alexander's acting he commented that his performance was not enough to keep the show \"from being just another piece of summer drivel offered up by a major commercial network\".\n\nVarious critics compared the pilot to \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\". In his review of the episode \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" critic Ken Tucker commented \"Seinfeld's brisk funniness prevents Chronicles from being a rip-off\", while Jerry Krupnick of \"The Star-Ledger\" felt that \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" differentiated itself from \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\" by its supporting cast, which he praised. By contrast, John Voorhees of \"The Seattle Times\" commented that, though he thought the show was amusing, he considered \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\" to be better, and the Houston Chronicle's Mike McDaniel referred to the pilot as \"a not-as-good Garry Shandling-like show\".\n\nMost critics reacted with disappointment to the fact that NBC had not picked up the show. Bob Niedt of the \"Syracuse Herald-Journal\" commented \"What gives? Comedy this good, and NBC is keeping — excuse me — \"A Different World\" on the schedule?\". Ken Tucker stated \"NBC is making a mistake if it doesn't pick up \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" as a midseason replacement; it's bound to be superior to most of what the network has planned for the fall\". Additionally casting directors Hirschfeld and Meg Liberman were nominated for a Casting Society of America Artios Award for 'Best Casting for TV, Pilot', but lost to the casting directors of \"Northern Exposure\".\n\nThough the network executives had decided not to pick up \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\" for a first season, some of them were reluctant to give up on it, as they felt the series had potential. Rick Ludwin, one of the show's greatest supporters, eventually made a deal with Tartikoff, giving up some of his own development money and cancelling a Bob Hope special, so that the entertainment division could order four more episodes of \"The Seinfeld Chronicles\"; these formed the rest of the show's first season. Although this was a very low order number for a new series (the smallest sitcom order in television history), Castle Rock failed to find any other buyers when it tried to sell the show to other networks, and accepted the order. About a year later the first season would premiere, with the show renamed \"Seinfeld\" to avoid confusion with ABC's \"The Marshall Chronicles\". To lead in the first official season of \"Seinfeld\", the pilot episode was repeated on June 28, 1990; it received a Nielsen rating of 13.9/26.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924825", "title": "Kollaps", "text": "Kollaps\n\nKollaps was the first official LP by Einstürzende Neubauten, released in 1981 on German label ZickZack as #ZZ 65. The songs are a mixture of rough punk tunes and industrial noises. The industrial noises were obtained from self-made music machines, electronics, and found objects such as metal plates. The album was reissued in 2002 with \"Stahldubversions\", originally released in 1982. Blixa Bargeld, N.U. Unruh and F.M. Einheit appear on the album. \"Jet'M\" is a cover of the Serge Gainsbourg song \"Je t'aime... moi non plus\". The track 15 of many CD versions of the album is a live version of \"Negativ Nein\", recorded on 26 June 1987 at the Tempodrom in Berlin.\n\n\"Trouser Press\" described the album as \"one of the most shocking visions ever committed to vinyl.\" The album is included in the book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924837", "title": "Crossair Europe", "text": "Crossair Europe\n\nCrossair Europe (European Continental Airways) was an airline headquartered on the grounds of EuroAirport Basel-Mulhouse-Freiburg in Saint-Louis, Haut Rhin, France, near Basel, Switzerland. It operated scheduled services to destinations in Italy and France. Its main base was EuroAirport Basel-Mulhouse-Freiburg.\n\nThe airline ceased operations in 2005.\n\n\nThe airline was established in 1997 and started operations on 29 March 1998. It was launched by Crossair in the Alsace region of France under French law to take advantage of airline liberalisation in the EU. Operations began as an independent company under the trade name Crossair Europe.\n\nCrossair Europe was a subsidiary of Swiss International Air Lines operating two Saab 2000s (decade) on their behalf. In March 2005 it was announced that Crossair Europe would be closed by the end of the month. The routes operated by Crossair Europe were taken over by Swiss International Air Lines, as the Crossair Europe subsidiary ceased operations at the end of March 2005.\n\nThe Crossair Europe fleet consisted of 2 Saab 2000 aircraft (at January 2005). It had formerly operated three Saab 340Bs.\n"}
{"id": "1924842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924842", "title": "Jacob Read", "text": "Jacob Read\n\nJacob Read (1752 - July 17, 1816) was an American lawyer and politician from Charleston, South Carolina. He represented South Carolina in both the Continental Congress (1783–1785) and the United States Senate (1795–1801).\n\nRead was born at \"Hobcaw\" plantation in Christ Church Parish, near Charleston, South Carolina, in 1752. After he completed preparatory studies, he studied law and was admitted to the bar. He also studied in England from 1773 to 1776. He joined other Americans in London in 1774 in a petition against the Boston port bill.\n\nWhen Read returned to the United States, he served South Carolina in various military and civil capacities during the Revolutionary War. He was sent with other Americans as a prisoner of the British to St. Augustine from 1780 to 1781. He was a member of the State assembly in 1782, and of the privy council in 1783. He served as a Member of the Continental Congress from 1783 to 1785, and was a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives from St. Philip's and St. Michael's Parish. His service in the state lower house lasted from January 8, 1782 to December 17, 1794, and served as Speaker for the last five years in that house.\n\nElected as a Federalist to the United States Senate, Read served a single term from March 4, 1795, to March 3, 1801. He served as President pro tempore of the Senate during the Fifth Congress for about a month, but was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection. He was succeeded by Democratic-Republican John E. Colhoun.\n\nRead died in Charleston, South Carolina, on July 17, 1816 (age about 64 years). He is interred in the Bond/Read family cemetery at \"Hobcaw,\" in Christ Church Parish, near Charleston.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924843", "title": "Novi fosili", "text": "Novi fosili\n\nNovi fosili () is a Croatian pop band, one of the most popular music acts in former Yugoslavia.\n\nThe group was formed in Zagreb in 1969. Their first successes came in 1976 when the composer Rajko Dujmić joined the band. That same year Novi Fosili played at the Split Festival, where their song \"Diridonda\" soon became a hit throughout the country. Their next several albums sold millions of copies and delivered many hits that are still aired on radios in Croatia today. The first female singer was Đurđica Barlović, in 1983 replaced by Sanja Doležal. The group's male vocalists were Vladimir Kočiš Zec and Rajko Dujmić.\n\nHits include: \"Za dobra stara vremena\" (\"For good old times\"), \"Milena\", \"Sanjaj me\" (\"Dream of me\"), and others. The band represented Yugoslavia at the 1987 Eurovision Song Contest. With their song \"Ja sam za ples\" (\"I wanna dance\") they finished fourth.\n\nAfter the breakup of the Yugoslavia, the group was disbanded, then gathered again, but without Doležal and Zec. It was disbanded again in 2001. Members of the most memorable lineup gathered again in 2005 for some revival concerts, and still work together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924848", "title": "Khamal", "text": "Khamal\n\nKhamal may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1924853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924853", "title": "Jo Caulfield", "text": "Jo Caulfield\n\nJosephine Caulfield (born 26 September 1965) is a British actress, writer and comedian.\n\nBorn in Wales to Irish parents, she was brought up in Derbyshire and Leicestershire, England.\n\nAt 17, Caulfield moved to London. For two years she lived in a squat in Kilburn Park, West London, and played drums in a rockabilly band. Heavily influenced by The Cramps and The Fleshtones the band went nowhere fast due to their \"lack of songs, musical ability and talent. But we did wear nice clothes\" (Jo Caulfield, Radio 4 interview).\n\nDeciding she wanted to get into comedy, Caulfield worked as a waitress during the day, saved up her tips, bought a small microphone and amplifier, and opened her own comedy club. After meeting her partner, the couple agreed a two-year plan to either make it or give up. Caulfield was soon writing for Graham Norton, getting her own gigs and doing a BBC Radio 4 show.\n\nIn 2010, Jo Caulfield was nominated as 'Funniest Woman 2010' (LAFTA Awards). She has previously been nominated as 'Best Female Comedian 2002' (Chortle Awards), 'Best Compere 2004' (Chortle Awards) and one of 'The 100 Greatest Stand-Ups' (Channel 4).\n\nShe has appeared at major comedy clubs, both in the UK and overseas, and has completed two solo nationwide tours, and a further three as support act of Graham Norton, Puppetry of the Penis and Rory Bremner. For the last nine years, Caulfield has taken a new solo comedy show to the Edinburgh Fringe.\n\nCaulfield was Comedy Writer/Programme Consultant for all five series of the BAFTA Award-winning \"So Graham Norton\". She was also head writer on both Ruby Wax's \"Waiting Game\" and Zoe Ball's 'Strictly Dance Fever' (BBC3). Caulfield has also written for Joan Rivers, Anne Robinson, Denise Van Outen and Ant & Dec among others.\n\nCaulfield's first CD, \"Thinking Bad Thoughts\", was released via iTunes in October 2012.\n\nShe currently hosts a regular spoken word/comedy evening at the Scottish Storytelling Centre in Edinburgh called \"The Speakeasy\".\n\nCaulfield's own TV appearances include \"Never Mind The Buzzcocks\", \"Mock the Week\", \"The Stand-up Show\", \"The Comedy Store\", \"The World Stands Up\", \"Have I Got News For You\", \"Argumental\" and \"The Politics Show\". Most recently, she appeared on \"Michael McIntyre's Comedy Roadshow\".\nIn November 2008 Caulfield presented a video piece for BBC1's \"The One Show\" about Charles Darwin. Caulfield visited the Darwin exhibition at the Natural History Museum to see what Darwin thought were the pros and cons of marriage.\n\nIn March 2010 Caulfield had her set at London's Comedy Store filmed for the up-and-coming \"The Comedy Store\" series on \"Comedy Central\".\n\nIn April 2010 Caulfield presented a piece for BBC1's \"The Politics Show\". Filmed at the Harrogate Theatre during her 'Won't Shut Up' tour Caulfield canvassed the audience about their views on politics, politicians and the 2010 election campaign.\n\nShe is also a TV warm-up artist, and is the regular warm-up for \"Have I Got News for You\" (with two appearances as a contestant). Other TV shows she regularly worked on include \"V Graham Norton\", \"Alistair McGowan's Big Impression\", \"Bremner, Bird and Fortune\", \"Gimme Gimme Gimme\", \"Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps\", and \"Perfect World\".\n\nActing credits include \"Family Affairs\", \"Days Like These\", \"Beast\", and \"Get Real\".\n\nShe has been a regular guest on many radio shows: \"It's Been a Bad Week\", \"The Fred MacAulay Show\", \"The Motion Show\", \"Parsons and Naylor's Pull-Out Section\", \"Quote... Unquote\", \"The Sunday Programme\" (LBC Radio), \"The Now Show\" and \"Twenty Twenty\".\n\nIn January 2006 Caulfield recorded her own Radio 4 comedy series: \"It's That Jo Caulfield Again\" to much critical acclaim. \"The Times\", \"The Guardian\", \"The Observer\", \"The Evening Standard\" and \"Heat\" Magazine all made the show their \"Pick of the Day\". The series was primarily written by Caulfield, and featured regular cast members Vicky Pepperdine, Dave Mounfield and Simon Greenall.\n\nA second series, featuring Sharon Horgan, Alan Francis and Simon Greenall, went out in June 2007.\n\nIn December 2007 the third series of \"It's That Jo Caulfield Again\" was broadcast. The cast: Zoe Lyons, Marian Pashley, Moray Hunter and Simon Greenall.\n\nIn November 2009 a new series, \"Jo Caulfield Won't Shut Up!\", went out in the 6.30pm comedy slot on Radio 4. The series was primarily written by Jo Caulfield, and featured regular cast members Zoe Lyons, Nick Revel and Simon Greenall. The first show was recorded live at the Edinburgh Festival, with special guest Paul Sneedon.\n\nIn June 2010 \"Jo Caulfield Won't Shut Up!\" was repeated in the 11 o'clock slot on Radio 4.\n\nIn July/August 2012 Jo presented \"Laughing In All The Right Places\" for BBC Scotland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924860", "title": "Srebrna krila", "text": "Srebrna krila\n\nSrebrna krila () are a Croatian pop band from Zagreb that are popular across the ex-Yugoslav states.\n\nThe band was created in 1978, with Vlado Kalember as the lead singer. Most of their Kalember-era hits were written by Đorđe Novković.\n\nIn 1988 the band represented Yugoslavia at the Eurovision Song Contest with the song \"Mangup\", placing at number 6.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s the band went through a series of different incarnations. Kalember left the band after their 1986 album \"30 u hladu\". The band disappeared for several years after the death of its leader Muc in 2000.\n\nSrebrna krila reunited on June 1 2012 and announced the return to the scene.\n\nAt the end of August 2012 they announced a new comeback album called \"Srebrna Krila 2012\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924868", "title": "Shade, the Changing Man", "text": "Shade, the Changing Man\n\nShade, the Changing Man is a fictional comic book character created by Steve Ditko for DC Comics in 1977. The character was later adapted by Peter Milligan and Chris Bachalo in one of the first Vertigo titles.\n\nBoth versions of Shade are distinct from the Shade, another DC Comics character.\n\n\"Shade, the Changing Man\" told the story of a fugitive from the militant planet Meta in another dimension. Shade (whose full name is Rac Shade) was powered by a stolen \"M-vest\" (or Miraco-Vest, named for its inventor) which protected him with a force field and enabled him to project the illusion of becoming a large grotesque version of himself. \n\nThe character was the first Ditko had created, or helped to create, for a mainstream publisher for many years. Prior to rejoining DC Comics, Ditko had worked on characters such as his \"Mr. A.\" title. \"Shade\" was very much a return to mainstream superheroics, although \"Shade\" indicated no particular connection with the DC Universe (although the letters columns stated that there is no reason it could not be shown to be there). Michael Fleisher scripted the series based on Ditko's plotting and art.\n\nHis series ran for eight bi-monthly issues in 1978 before its sudden cancellation in the wake of the \"DC Implosion\", a contraction of DC's line that saw a third of their books axed right before the September releases. A ninth extra-length issue, featuring the debut of a new Ditko character called The Odd Man, was produced, but was published only as a part of DC's Cancelled Comic Cavalcade in 1978. A revised version of the Odd Man story appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #487 (Dec. 1979-Jan. 1980). Both stories were published in \"The Steve Ditko Omnibus Vol. 1\" (2011), a hardcover collection of Ditko's DC work.\n\nAfter this, Shade was adopted into the DC Universe and made a brief appearance in the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" miniseries, as well as becoming a regular character in \"Suicide Squad\".\n\nRac Shade, a secret agent of the world in the Meta-Zone, a dimension near that of Earth, between which is the Zero-Zone, has been framed for treason and sentenced to death. Through various events, Shade spent some time on Earth trying to clear his name, using the retrieved M-Vest (The Miraco-Vest that had been stolen) in the process; but was met with resistance of the Meta-authorities at each point. His name was being cleared bit by bit, but he remained a wanted man, and Shade continued to use the M-Vest. Shade's former fiancée, Mellu Loron, wanted to kill him for some time for causing an explosion that crippled her parents. But her parents, operating a mechanical monster called the Supreme Decider (or Sude) had other plans.\n\nThe Metans have an outpost on Earth which is called the Occult Research Center (O.R.C). The Center was run by Wizor, assisted by Leno. Mellu ran it for a time. The O.R.C. operates by telling the absolute truth about Meta, something the public tends to laugh off. When Mellu desires to kill Shade, the fact that other, more violent, criminals released in the freak accident during the prison riot that freed Shade become priority, annoys her greatly and causes her to leave the organization.\n\nWhen Dr. Sagan shows Mellu videotape evidence that Shade has rescued her from a deadly part of the Zero-Zone called the Area of Madness (from which no one but Shade, thanks to the vest, has exited without expending all their bodily resources screaming), she changes her mind about Shade, in spite of having been the one who had ultimately captured him.\n\nIn the final issue, President Olon's hands are tied in regard to the treason charge. Even though he considers Shade innocent, until his death sentence is overturned in court, he is still under a death sentence as Col. Kross gathers evidence in his defense. With all of these on his side, he (Shade) leaps into the Zero-Zone and is swallowed by the Area of Madness.\n\nShade ends up living in the Area of Madness. The Suicide Squad, after leaving Nightshade's home dimension ends up here and Shade is able to adjust his M-Vest so he can teleport himself and the Squad to earth.\n\nUnfortunately the O.R.C has been taken over by Doctor Z.Z. and a gang of Metan criminals. They hope to use the place as a base to conquer Earth and eventually Meta itself. Shade's plan to stop them is sidetracked by the \"Crisis On Infinite Earths\" and being stuck back in the Zero Zone. He is eventually rescued by the Squad.\n\nShade's second attempt at stopping Z.Z. is successful, though Meta authorities still wish to arrest him. Rick Flag pulls a gun and Shade is allowed to leave with the Squad.\n\nShade is offered technical help in returning to Meta in exchange for his help on missions. Shade cooperates, though he is not quite sure if Earth's technology is up to the task. Shade also spends time trying to help the ex-Squad member Mindboggler, who had died in issue #2, then became Ifrit, a digitized ally of the Jihad.\n\nShade became increasingly doubtful of the wisdom of staying with the Squad. So when Lashina (in the disguise of Duchess) came to him with an offer to return him to his home dimension via a detour to Apokolips, Shade agrees, not knowing what was in store for him. He ends up being forced to kidnap Vixen as well as Captain Boomerang (although he had little regret with kidnapping the latter). Shade knew that his actions were wrong, but felt he had little choice.\n\nLashina betrayed him as soon as possible on Apokolips. Several of Shade's friends, the pilot Briscoe, civilian Flo Crowley (part of the Task Force X support staff) and the villain Dr. Light soon die in the fight against parademons and the Female Furies. Darkseid appears and settles the conflict, sending the Squad and its dead home. Shade, wracked with guilt, is sent back to his home dimension.\n\nHis whereabouts since then have been unknown.\n\nIn July 1990, just six months after Shade's final appearance in \"Suicide Squad\", \"Shade\" was revamped by Peter Milligan and Chris Bachalo, becoming part of the so-called \"British Invasion\", alongside Neil Gaiman's \"Sandman\" and Grant Morrison's \"Animal Man\".\n\nThe new series still took place in the DC universe: John Constantine turned up for a three-issue story arc, Death of The Endless appeared in a subtle cameo in issue 50 and Shade appeared with a group of other Vertigo characters in 1999's \"Totems\".\nHowever, the comic departed quickly from its origins. Milligan and Bachalo reinvented Rac Shade as a red-headed lovelorn poet sent to Earth to stop a growing tide of madness from consuming the planet, his M-Vest becoming a Madness-Vest capable of warping reality. Working from Brendan McCarthy's character designs, Bachalo created a distinctive look for the comic, distinguishing it from the character's other DC Universe appearances. The original series was retconned as a story that Shade made up to amuse himself while traveling to Earth. (Left unexplained was his stint with the Suicide Squad.)\n\nMilligan killed Shade off several times during the series, bringing him back each time in a different form: a woman; a black-haired madman; a red-haired, emotionless mod; and a bedraggled, unshaven obsessive.\n\nThe series employed concepts and ideas which were at times controversial and distinct from regular DC titles (for example, JFK's assassination and transgenderism). To distinguish these more 'adult' themes in \"Shade\" and other titles, DC created the Vertigo imprint in 1993. \"Shade\" became one of the initial Vertigo titles starting with issue 33.\n\n\"Shade\" sold steadily for Vertigo and maintained a cult following. The title lasted 70 issues before being cancelled in 1996.\n\nIn 2003 a special one-off story by Peter Milligan and artist Mike Allred was printed as part of Vertigo's tenth anniversary celebrations. In 2004, the first six issues of \"Shade\" were reprinted as a Vertigo trade paperback.\n\nIn August 2010, \"Hellblazer\" #268 featured the return of Shade the Changing Man, this time as a supporting cast member for John Constantine in a series of storylines written by Milligan.\n\nAccording to \"Absolute Crisis on Infinite Earths HC\", the events of the second series originally took place on Earth-85 in the Multiverse before its destruction.\n\nIn 2011, Shade was featured in Geoff Johns \"Flashpoint\" miniseries and its spinoff miniseries \"Flashpoint: Secret Seven\" (written by Peter Milligan) as the leader of the Secret Seven.\nAfter \"Flashpoint\" as part of \"The New 52\" (a reboot of the DC Comics universe), Shade appears as one of the lead characters in the first story arc of \"Justice League Dark\", a new title written by Peter Milligan and drawn by Mikel Janin.\n\nIn \"Kingdom Come\", Alex Ross created Shade III, a black adaptation. He is referred to as \"more of the classic, heroic version\", and is visually based more on the Steve Ditko Shade than the Peter Milligan Shade.\n\nAnother Elseworlds version of the classic Shade appeared in \"\" as a member of the Outsiders.\n\nIn 2011, Shade returned to the DC Universe in \"Flashpoint: Secret Seven\", a limited series spinoff of the \"Flashpoint\" crossover event. The series is written by Peter Milligan and drawn by George Pérez. This version of Shade is visually based on the Vertigo incarnation, but draws elements from the original Steve Ditko iteration of the character as well. In the series, history is altered accidentally by The Flash, resulting in a greatly altered timeline that reimagines many characters. Here, Shade is the leader of a band of heroes dubbed the Secret Seven, which includes Enchantress and Amethyst, Princess of Gemworld. Shade and the others are recruited by Cyborg as part of an effort to stop an apocalyptic war between Atlantis and New Themyscira.\n\n\nIn October 2016, DC debuted a new imprint: Young Animal. One of the initial titles is \"Shade, The Changing Girl\", which features a female Metan named Loma who admires the late Rac Shade and his poetry. She steals the Madness Vest from a museum and takes over the body of a comatose teenage girl called Megan Boyer on Earth. The creative team behind this new version includes writer Cecil Castellucci and artist Marley Zarcone. Beginning March 2018, the series changed names like many Young Animal titles. It is currently called \"Shade, The Changing Woman.\" \n\"Shade, the Changing Girl\" ended its run during the events of \"Milk Wars\" and began again in 2018 as \"Shade, The Changing Woman\" which went for six issues, ending in July 2018.\n\nAfter the name change, the tone of the book changed to a more introspective one, as Loma left her small town and traveled through several locations;while the book also shifted its focus onto the secondary characters introduced on the previous run. Exploring themes of dissociation, depression, xenophobia, destiny and being an outcast, Loma eventually meets Rac Shade and the story comes full circle to connect with the previous Vertigo incarnation.\n\nThe original Steve Ditko series is collected in \"The Steve Ditko Omnibus Vol. 1\" (2011).\n\nThe Vertigo series is being collected into trade paperbacks.\n\n\nThe Young Animal series is collected into three trade paperbacks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924871", "title": "Imaani", "text": "Imaani\n\nImaani Saleem (born Melonie Crosdale in 1972) is an English singer, best known for representing the United Kingdom at the Eurovision Song Contest 1998 in Birmingham with the song \"Where Are You\". The song placed second in the contest, and became a top 20 hit in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Belgium.\n\nAlthough \"Where Are You?\" remains her sole solo chart entry, in 2000 she re-entered the top 20 of the UK Singles chart alongside Tru Faith & Dub Conspiracy's \"Freak Like Me\". Later, she recorded many songs with jazz-dance group Incognito, and in 2014 released her debut studio album, \"Standing Tall\".\n\nIn 1998, Saleem entered \"The Great British Song Contest\" competition to find the UK's song for the Eurovision Song Contest that year. Her track \"Where Are You\" was a runaway winner with the British public and was selected to represent the UK. Saleem finished a mere seven points behind the winner Dana International, in second place in the Eurovision Song Contest 1998. The UK has never been so close to winning ever since.\n\nAfter its success in the contest, \"Where Are You\" entered the UK Singles Chart in May 1998, peaking at number 15 and spending 15 non-consecutive weeks in the top 100. The track sold over 250,000 copies. Despite this success, her record label EMI decided to cancel the release of her follow-up single \"You Got a Way\" in 1999 and parted company with Saleem.\n\nIn 2000, she supplied the lead vocals on Tru Faith & Dub Conspiracy's UK garage cover of Adina Howard's \"Freak Like Me\". The song reached No. 12 on the UK Singles Chart. Saleem went on to record with the jazz-funk band Incognito, providing vocals for more than 10 of their records.\n\nSince 2005, Saleem has performed as part of UK session organisation The AllStars Collective. The following year, in 2006, she sang on a house track, \"Bring Me Love\", by the Copyright Project on Defected Records. The track received a limited release in the UK, but reached the Top 3 in the club chart.\n\nIn 2014, Saleem released her debut album, \"Standing Tall\". One of its songs, \"Struggling\" featured on the 2015 soul compilation album \"Luxury Soul 2015\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1924872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924872", "title": "Zeichnungen des Patienten O. T.", "text": "Zeichnungen des Patienten O. T.\n\nZeichnungen des Patienten O. T. (or Drawings of Patient O. T.) is the second studio album by the Berlin-based musical group Einstürzende Neubauten. Some Bizzare Records released the album in 1983 (see 1983 in music). In the United States, PVC/Jem Records released the album in 1984 as \"Drawings of O. T.\"\n\nThe title refers to artist Oswald Tschirtner, an institutionalized schizophrenic who earned attention for his art. The original vinyl release of \"Zeichnungen des Patienten O. T.\" is Rough Trade Records #RTD 18 and Some Bizzare Records #SBVART 2.\n\nThe album shows a wider variety of moods and sounds than the group's first album, \"Kollaps\". Einstürzende Neubauten is famous for banging, scraping, plucking, or otherwise wringing sounds from any resonant object. While such metallic clatter pervades the album, the group also uses techniques such as found sounds (telephone conversations, the Hamburg fish market) and (pre-digital) sampling (a sample of an Armenian song, \"\"Toun en kelkhen imastoun yes,\"\" is used in \"Armenia\"). Bass guitar is relatively prominent, though generally played in a minimal style (and perhaps contributing more toward sonic texture rather than forming a rhythmic or harmonic foundation). \"Trouser Press\" critic David Sheridan pointed out the group's drift toward conventionality, writing, \"the title track \"even has a chord progression!\"\" (his emphasis).\n\n\"Armenia\" was later used in the soundtrack of Michael Mann's 1995 film \"Heat\" and his 1999 film \"The Insider\".\n\n\n\nThe American vinyl release in 1984 included an EP comprising all four of these tracks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924873", "title": "Sancho Gracia", "text": "Sancho Gracia\n\nFélix Ángel Sancho Gracia (27 September 1936 – 8 August 2012) was a Spanish motion picture and television actor.\n\nGracia was born and died in Madrid. He started his acting career in Montevideo, Uruguay, where he lived from 1947 until 1961. In Montevideo he was a student of Margarita Xirgu. He made his movie acting debut in France in the 1963 film \"L'Autre femme\" opposite Annie Girardot. Since then he has appeared in more than eighty motion pictures including several Hollywood productions during the 1970s and in 1999's \"Outlaw Justice\" with Willie Nelson and Kris Kristofferson. As well, Gracia has worked in Australia, performing as a regular cast member in the 1982 television series, \"Runaway Island\" and in the 1991 made-for-TV film, \"Pirates Island\". He also participated in the Oscar-nominated Mexican film \"El Crimen del Padre Amaro\" in 2002.\n\nIn 2003, he was nominated for the Goya Award for Best Actor for his performance in the 2002 film, \"800 balas\".\n\nIn addition to motion pictures, Sancho Gracia made more than sixty guest appearances on Spanish television shows. He became famous in Spain for the role of Curro Jiménez, in the Televisión Española drama series of the same name, that was broadcast from 1976 to 1979, being rebroadcast several times since then.\n\nHe died of lung cancer on August 8, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "1924878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924878", "title": "Igor (character)", "text": "Igor (character)\n\nIgor, or sometimes Ygor, is a stock character lab assistant to many types of Gothic villains, (especially mad scientists) such as Count Dracula or Dr. Victor Frankenstein, familiar from many horror movies and horror movie parodies. Although Dr. Frankenstein had a hunchbacked assistant in the film \"Frankenstein\" (1931), his name was Fritz. In the original 1818 Mary Shelley novel, Frankenstein has no lab assistant nor an association with a character named Igor.\n\nDwight Frye's hunchbacked lab assistant in the first film of the \"Frankenstein\" series (1931) is the main source for the \"Igor\" of public imagination, though this character was actually named Fritz. Fritz did not originate from the \"Frankenstein\" novel, but instead originated from the earliest recorded play adaptation, \"Presumption; or, the Fate of Frankenstein\", where he was played by Robert Keeley.\n\nThe second and third sequel films \"Son of Frankenstein\" (1939) and \"The Ghost of Frankenstein\" (1942) featured a character named Ygor (portrayed by Bela Lugosi). This character is neither a hunchback nor a lab assistant, but a blacksmith with a broken neck and twisted back as the result of a botched hanging. He reanimates the Monster as an instrument of vengeance against the townspeople who attempted to hang him for grave-robbing. He survives a near-fatal gunshot and appears in the next film in which his brain is placed in the Monster's body.\n\nUniversal Studios actively cemented the idea of the hunchbacked assistant to the \"mad scientist\" in the Frankenstein film series' \"The House of Frankenstein\" (1944) with J. Carrol Naish playing a hunchbacked lab assistant named Daniel.\n\nIn the horror film \"Mystery of the Wax Museum\" (1933), Ivan Igor is the name of the mad wax museum curator. The film was remade as \"House of Wax\" (1953), but the name Igor was given to the curator's henchman (Charles Bronson) rather than the curator himself. This character is deaf and mute, rather than a hunchback.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924879", "title": "Tajči", "text": "Tajči\n\nTajči Cameron, born Tatjana Matejaš, (, ; ; 1 July 1970) is a Croatian singer, television show host, published author and blogger.\n\nAs a pop star in the former Yugoslavia in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Tajči won the national selection of RTV Zagreb, SR Croatia and represented Yugoslavia at the Eurovision Song Contest 1990. The contest was held at Zagreb and she sang the song \"Hajde da ludujemo\" (\"Let's go crazy\"). Her Yugoslav music career was cut short by the breakup of Yugoslavia and the subsequent war.\n\nShe left Croatia in 1992 and a year later graduated from the American Musical and Dramatic Academy in New York. She appeared in numerous off Broadway productions and landed a lead role in \"Miracle of Christmas\" a mega-production at Sight and Sound Theatre, Lancaster, Pennsylvania. During her time in New York, she was signed by Camile Barbone and produced the \"Age of Love\" CD recorded at Long View Farms Studio.\n\nIn 1994, she returned to Croatia and starred in a production of \"Kiss Me Kate\" by Croatian National Theatre, Rijeka. She moved to Los Angeles in 1997 seeking to expand her performing skills through television and film. She continued her musical theater career with roles in Brigadoon produced by Starlight Theatre in San Diego and \"The Phantom of the Opera\" at the San Gabriel Mission Playhouse. In 1997-98, she produced a series of benefit concerts at the Sacred Heart Retreat House in Alhambra, California, where she met Matthew Cameron, whom she married in 1999. She ended up performing music in Roman Catholic churches while auditioning for roles, some of which she rejected because they required nudity.\n\nIn late 2004, she and her family relocated to Cincinnati, Ohio, a more central location for her heavy touring schedule with concerts. In 2011, Yamaha Entertainment Group produced a remake of her mega-hit from the 1990s \"Dvije zvjezdice\". She released an indie pop album \"Awaken\" in 2013 on which she collaborated with Bryan Lennox, a Grammy Award-winning producer. Tajči wrote a full-length musical, \"My Perfectly Beautiful Life\", which was produced by Cincinnati Playwright Initiative at the Jarson-Kaplan Theatre in February 2010.\n\nTajci, her husband and their three children relocated to Franklin, Tennessee in 2014, the same year she started producing and hosting TV show \"Waking Up in America\" and in 2015 founded \"Waking Up Revolution\", a multi platform brand. She is also a certified Holistic Life Coach through Radiant Health Institute, certified as 65 hours of Approved Coach Specific Training Hours by the International Coach Federation.\n\nTajči married Matthew Cameron, whom she met in church, in 1999. The couple have three sons, all raised in the Roman Catholic faith.\nShe lost her husband Matthew to Stage 4 non smokers' lung cancer in 2017.\n\nHer sister is Croatian-American actress and singer Sanja Matejaš, known as Sanya Mateyas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924882", "title": "Charles E. Bennison", "text": "Charles E. Bennison\n\nCharles Ellsworth Bennison Jr. (born November 30, 1943) is an American bishop. He was the 15th bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania.\n\nBennison was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on November 30, 1943, and was baptized at St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Hastings, Minnesota, on December 24, 1943. His father, Charles E. Bennison Sr., was also a priest who went on to become the Bishop of Western Michigan.\n\nBennison received a B.A. degree summa cum laude from Lawrence University in Appleton, Wisconsin, in 1965. In 1965–66, he studied at Seabury-Western Theological Seminary, and then attended Harvard Divinity School, where he received a B.D. degree in 1968 and a Th.M. degree in 1970. He earned his M.A. degree from the Claremont Graduate School in 1977, and a S.T.M. degree from Union Theological Seminary in 1992. He was honored with a D.Div. degree from Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1997.\n\nBenninson married Joan Kathryn Reahard; they have two daughters, Sarah and Kathryn.\n\nOrdained a deacon in 1968 and a priest in 1969, Bennison began his full-time ministry in 1971 as rector of St. Mark's Church in Upland, California, where he was founder of St. Mark's Episcopal School, St. Mark's Homeless Shelter, and new congregations in Rancho Cucamonga and Chino, California.\n\nIn the Episcopal Diocese of Los Angeles, he chaired the Program Group on Social Relations and the Standing Committee, served as president of the Corporation of the Diocese, taught at the Episcopal Theological School at Claremont Graduate School, and was a frequent reader of the General Ordination Examinations. He served as a member of Venture in Mission Board, the Los Angeles Jewish-Christian-Muslim Trialogue, the Anglican-Roman Catholic Commission, and numerous other bodies. In 1987, he was recognized by the Pomona Valley Council of Churches for outstanding leadership in ecumenical affairs. That year he was also among the nominees considered to replace Robert Rusack as bishop of the diocese, a position that ultimately went to Frederick Borsch.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1991, he was rector of St. Luke's Church in Atlanta, Georgia, where he substantially raised stewardship giving, broadened the participation of laity in the governance of the parish, and initiated a process leading to the acquisition of significant real estate holdings.\n\nBennison has been a fellow of the College of Preachers and a Masland fellow at Union Theological Seminary. In 1992, he was elected to the faculty of Episcopal Divinity School, where he served as associate professor of Pastoral theology and founded the program in Congregational Studies.\n\nBennison was elected Bishop Coadjutor of the Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania at a special convention held on October 19, 1996, at the Cathedral Church of the Savior in Philadelphia and was consecrated as a bishop on February 27, 1997 at the Deliverance Evangelistic church in Philadelphia. He was made the diocesan bishop on May 16, 1998.\n\nBennison's tenure as Bishop of Pennsylvania was marked by controversies. Early in his episcopacy, Bennison became an important figure in the ongoing tension between liberal and conservative factions in the Episcopal Church. Theological disagreements with conservative Anglo-Catholic parishes led to extended legal battles over control of church property. In the latter years of his episcopacy, Bennison faced opposition from liberals and conservatives alike regarding diocesan finances and the purchase of a multimillion dollar 434 acre waterfront site on the Chesapeake Bay in Maryland that was developed as \"Wapiti\", a summer camp for youth and a diocesan conference center.\n\nIn 1994–1995, seven Anglo-Catholic priests opposed to the ordination of women made an agreement with the 14th bishop of Pennsylvania, Allen Bartlett, known as the \"Parsons Plan.\" Under the terms of this plan, Donald Parsons, the retired bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Quincy, would make episcopal visitations to several traditionalist parishes until the next General Convention. This arrangement was similar to the role of a provincial episcopal visitor in the Church of England.\n\nIn 1997, the General Convention adopted a resolution stating that \"no member of this Church shall be denied a place in the life and governance of this Church on account of their sex or their theological views on the ordination of women,\" after which Bishop Bartlett decided not to renew the Parsons Plan. He retired later that year. Despite differences in churchmanship, traditionalist leaders in the diocese supported Charles Bennison's election under the impression that he would continue the provisions of the Parsons Plan. These leaders assert that they cast their votes for him after he gave them solemn assurance that he would continue the \"Parsons Plan.\" After his installation as Bishop, he announced that he had \"changed his mind\" and would no longer consider the Parsons Plan. When Bennison elected not to reinstitute the arrangement, several crises arose in the diocese, compounded by theological differences between Bennison and several conservative parishes.\n\nDisagreements between traditionalist priests and Bishop Bennison centered on Bennison's writings on homosexuality and Christology. Bennison was a signatory to the \"Koinonia Statement\", a 1994 letter authored by John Shelby Spong, retired bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark. The statement affirmed the 1976 ordination of women and said that gay or lesbian relationships \"that are faithful, monogamous, committed, life giving and holy are to be honored\" and promised \"support and protection\" for gay and lesbian clergy. In 1997, while still coadjutor, Bennison published an article arguing that, \"Because the legitimized paradigm institutionalized in the church's present marriage liturgy is a heterosexist one directed against gay men and lesbian women, a change in the rite is required to delegitimize that paradigm.\" He proposed 24 changes to the sacrament of marriage, some based on a \"Visigothic rite,\" and wrote,\n\nBennison's statements on salvation and the doctrine of the Resurrection have been cited as a source of controversy. In a 2003 Easter Message, Bennison also wrote that Jesus \"acknowledges his own sin. He knows himself to be forgiven.\" Many Christians interpreted this remark to be a denial of the sinlessness of Jesus.\n\nThe Church of St. James the Less had, for many years, withheld its payments to the diocese in protest about the ordination of women. Bennison's decision to not renew the license of Fr. Willis, an assistant priest of St. James, further strained diocesan relations with the parish.\n\nIn 1999, the vestry of St. James the Less voted to transfer the property and assets of the parish to a nonprofit corporation called the \"CSJL Foundation,\" in order to disassociate from the diocese and the Episcopal Church. In response to St James' attempt to secede from the diocese, Bishop Bennison declared the parish \"inactive or extinct\" and initiated litigation to seize its property. In 2003, the Philadelphia County Court of Common Pleas ruled that the attempted merger of St. James the Less with the CSJL Foundation was ultra vires and invalid, that the vestry was \"ineligible to continue in their offices,\" and that the diocese could appoint or elect a new vestry. St. James lost two subsequent appeals, first to Commonwealth Court and then to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. Pursuant to the Supreme Court's decision, the diocese assumed control of the St. James property, and the congregation left to form an independent church.\n\nFr. David Moyer, Rector (1989–2011) of the Church of the Good Shepherd in Rosemont, Pennsylvania, was alleged to have refused to allow Bennison to make canonically-required episcopal visitations to Good Shepherd, saying the bishop \"was too liberal and could not be trusted in the pulpit.\" The charge, however, was disputed by Moyer and by the Vestry of the Church of the Good Shepherd, who insisted that they only advised Bishop Bennison that a visit would not be helpful. Bennison was specifically invited to visit with the Vestry and to inspect the books and records of the Parish, which would have fulfilled his canonical responsibility. Moyer was publicly critical of Bennison's public statements regarding the veracity of the Bible and sexual teachings, denouncing Bennison's teachings as \"apostate and heretical\"\n\nIn March 2002, Bennison approved a decision by the Standing Committee of the Diocese of Pennsylvania to inhibit Moyer from exercising his priestly functions for six months under the canons of the church. In April 2002, Moyer sought help from bishops in the Anglican Communion as they gathered for pre-arranged meetings in London. The office of the Archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, \"indicated that were David Moyer to be in a position of seeking permission, he would have no hesitation in giving him permission to officiate in the Diocese of Canterbury\"; since Carey was scheduled to retire that October, however, the issue would have to be resolved by his successor, Rowan Williams.\n\nMoyer not having recanted, but insisting that he had not left the Episcopal Church as charged by Bennison, within the six-month period of inhibition, at the conclusion of the canonical inhibition Bennison deposed Moyer on September 4, 2002. Bennison deposed him using a canon designed for the removal from the official list of priests a priest who has left the church, rather than using the canon for disciplining of a wayward priest that provides for a church trial in which the priest may contest charges against him. Bennison explained, \"I deposed him because he had over a decade shown a pattern of a series of canonical failures, one after another. Under his leadership, his parish has become increasingly alienated from his diocese.\".\n\nOn September 5, 2002, Moyer was received by Robert Duncan, Bishop of Pittsburgh, as a priest in good standing, although it is unclear whether such reception was permissible under the canon law of the Episcopal Church. Subsequently, Moyer served as dean of the conservative group Forward in Faith North America in 2004, and was consecrated as a bishop in the Traditional Anglican Communion on February 16, 2005, though he continued to serve as rector at the Church of the Good Shepherd until August 2011. A Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, court found in the matter of Moyer v. Bennison, et al., on October 24, 2008, that there was no fraud on the part of Bennison, the charge on which the case turned.\n\nDuring Bennison's episcopacy, the Diocese of Pennsylvania developed serious divisions over the management of church finances. Calls arose for Bennison to step down, which he resisted. The financial crisis came to a head in 2006, when the Standing Committee of the diocese voted twice to request Bennison's resignation, alleging the misappropriation of approximately $11.6 million from diocesan trust funds. This followed the committee's repeated refusal to accept the reappointment of diocesan chancellor William Bullitt, who advised Bennison on financial matters, and the defeat of the 2006 budget in a diocesan convention. A major point of controversy was the planned use of $1.2 million in unrestricted net assets. Meanwhile, the Diocesan Council passed a resolution in support of Bennison, and Bishop Clayton Matthews of the church Office of Pastoral Development was called in to mediate.\n\nOn November 6, 2006, the Standing Committee filed a complaint against Bennison with church authorities, charging that he had usurped its \"canonical prerogatives and authority\" by spending money and transferring funds without the committee's consent. Bennison responded that the complaint had no merit, saying, \"I have never spent any money in the diocese without the approbation of various governance bodies.\" The chancellor to Presiding Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori forwarded the complaint to a review committee in March 2007.\n\nDuring the diocesan financial controversy in 2006, allegations first made in 1979 were raised once again that Bennison, when he was serving as rector of a California parish in the 1970s, failed to respond appropriately to charges that his brother, John, had engaged in sexual misconduct while serving at St. Mark's Church in Upland, California. At the time John was in graduate theological studies, and Charles had hired him to serve as a part-time youth leader of St Mark's. Although married, John was alleged to have had sexual relationships with several persons, including one who was allegedly 14. According to one newspaper reporter, John was alleged to have had sexual intercourse with the teen over a four-year period, both on and off the premises of St. Mark's Church. However, in a subsequent deposition for Bishop Bennison's trial, the former teen acknowledged her sexual abuse at the age of 14 consisted of a back rub during a youth group meeting when she \"felt funny.\"\n\nIn 1975, John left St. Mark's. In 1977, John acknowledged his failures, voluntarily left the priesthood, and was deposed by Bishop of Los Angeles Robert Rusack. In 1979, after meeting all canonical requirements, John was restored to the priesthood by the same bishop, who—according to subsequent trial testimony—was fully cognizant of the prior allegations of misconduct. In 1992, the same charges from the 1970s were raised once again. After a formal church investigation, the parish where John was then serving as rector responded with a unanimous vote of confidence for their priest. Finally, in 2006, Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests (SNAP) initiated a campaign calling for John's resignation. On June 12, 2006, Bishop of California William Swing announced his resignation from the parish and his deposition from the pastoral ministry.\n\nMeanwhile, although there had been these two prior public adjudications of the same matter, first in 1979, then in 1992, Bishop Bennison's critics said that he had concealed the alleged abuse of the minor from church authorities and police. Charles Bennison initially said he had learned of the allegations from the girl's parents and promptly fired his brother. He acknowledged not having reported the matter to civil or ecclesiastical authorities at the time, saying, \"I did not think it was my prerogative to do so on my own\" (because the girl's parents had not chosen to report the matter to the police). The girl's mother, June Alexis, disputed this account, based on a 1978 letter from Bennison that she says indicate that he knew that their daughter was being abused by his brother, but did not tell them. John's ex-wife, Margaret Thompson, produced another letter from 1979 in which Charles Bennison asked her not to visit the parish because of the potential for \"a public scandal here which, I believe, could cost me my job.\" John's victim has stated that \"she and John were twice interrupted during sex by Charles Bennison's arrival at his brother's apartment\" (although it is unclear whether she alleges that Bishop Bennison saw them in a compromising situation).\n\nAt the annual diocesan convention on November 11, 2006, Bennison said:\n\n\"Reading the statements from last weekend's sessions reminded me that it was probably the senior warden, not the girl's mother, who in 1975 reported John's abuse, after which I immediately told him to leave the parish, and that in order to maintain the confidentiality of both John and the girl, I did not tell the parents, who nonetheless confronted me when they had found out four years later. Until reading the statements I had never before known that John's destructive behavior did not stop, but rather increased, in the parish to which he went after leaving my parish. That I could have prevented that from happening had I known to act differently is extremely grievous to me. My efforts to maintain confidentiality and prevent scandal were very misguided.\"\n\nHe acknowledged a \"failure in the 1970s to act more assertively with regard to my brother, his victims, and the church,\" but also reassured people that the church had since established reporting and disciplinary procedures so that, \"What happened 30 years ago would not happen today.\"\n\nOutside the convention, protesters renewed calls for Bennison's resignation. Inside, a motion to hold him accountable narrowly failed. Instead, a study of the impact of sexual abuse by clergy was authorized almost unanimously. Unlike the previous year, the convention was able to adopt a $3.45 million program budget.\n\nOn October 28, 2007, a judicial committee of the Episcopal Church issued a presentment of charges against Bennison. The two charges contained in the presentment were \"contemporaneous failure to respond properly\" when he learned of his brother's sexual misconduct and the \"subsequent suppression of pertinent information.\" Three days later, Katharine Jefferts Schori, the Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church inhibited Bennison \"from all ordained ministry pending a judgment of the Court for the Trial of a Bishop\". The Episcopal Church's Court for the Trial of a Bishop is a nine-member body consisting of both clergy and laity.\n\nOn June 25, 2008, the Court for the Trial of a Bishop unanimously convicted Bennison on the first count (that he knowingly did nothing while his brother John, also a cleric, engaged in sexual relations with a minor) and six of the members voted to convict him on the second count (that he covered up his brother's sexual misconduct). Both the Most Reverend Katherine Jefferts Schori, the Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church, and the standing committee of the diocese asked for his permanent deposition from holy orders and a ban against him having any ministerial function in the Episcopal Church.\n\nOn October 3, 2008, the Court for the Trial of a Bishop handed down its sentence, formally deposing Bennison from holy orders. Specifically it stated that \"The court finds that even today [Bennison] has not shown that he comprehends the nature, significance and effect of his conduct and has not accepted responsibility and repented for his conduct and the substantial negative effects of that conduct.\"\n\nBennison later filed a motion seeking a reduction of his sentence, but in February 2009 the court upheld its decision to depose Bennison. Subsequently Bennison appealed his conviction to the Court of Review for the Trial of a Bishop, a separate court composed of nine bishops.\n\nMeanwhile, on April 17, 2009, Bennison's attorney filed a motion with the Court for the Trial of a Bishop requesting a new trial, citing newly uncovered exculpatory evidence. According to Bennison's attorney, more than 200 letters, written by the then-teenage female to John, were discovered that contradicted witness testimony at the trial. Bennison's attorney asserted that the letters showed that the teenage girl actively tried to cover up her relationship with John, leaving Charles Bennison unaware of the situation and therefore unable to take appropriate action. On September 24, 2009, the Court for the Trial of a Bishop denied the motion for a new trial.\n\nFollowing the denial of a new trial, Bennison then pursued his appeal to the Court of Review for the Trial of a Bishop, which heard his case in Wilmington, Delaware on May 4, 2010. The basis for the appeal was a statute of limitation provision that had been in effect before a Presentment charge had ever been filed against Bishop Bennison. While Bishop Bennison's attorney had repeatedly raised the matter of the limitation statute, the earlier trial court had declined to rule on the issue for unexplained reasons.\n\nOn August 4, 2010, the Court of Review reversed the trial court's decision, and Bennison shortly afterward returned as Bishop of Pennsylvania. On September 21, 2010, however, the House of Bishops adopted a strongly worded yet nonbinding resolution urging Bennison to resign.\n\nOn October 9, 2012, Bennison announced his retirement as Bishop of Pennsylvania as of December 31, 2012. On January 12, 2013, Clifton Daniel was elected provisional bishop for a period of two years or until a new diocesan bishop was chosen; Daniel G. P. Gutierrez was elected to the position in July 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924888", "title": "Bogus (film)", "text": "Bogus (film)\n\nBogus is a 1996 American fantasy film directed by Norman Jewison, written by Alvin Sargent, and starring Whoopi Goldberg, Gérard Depardieu, and Haley Joel Osment. It features magic tricks with magician Whit Haydn as consultant. It did poorly at the box office and Goldberg was nominated for a Razzie Award for her performance. It was filmed in Canada and New Jersey.\n\nA fantasy, \"Bogus\" tells the story of seven-year-old Albert Franklin (Haley Joel Osment), the son of a Las Vegas magician's widowed assistant (Nancy Travis). His mother dies suddenly in a car accident and Albert, who is now an orphan, is sent to New Jersey to live with his mother's foster sister, Harriet (Whoopi Goldberg). The plot is about Albert, and his imaginary friend named Bogus (Gérard Depardieu), a French magician, who helps the boy cope with his transition. Gradually Harriet, who can also see Bogus, comes to terms with her new situation as well.\n\n\nAlthough portrayed as Newark, NJ, part of the film was filmed in Van Vorst Park neighborhood of Downtown Jersey City. Apartment building that the character, Harriet lives is at the corner of York Street and Barrow Street is called Madison on the Van Vorst Park.\n\"Bogus\" opened at #11 in its opening weekend with $1,895,593 and grossed $4,357,406 in the US.\n\nRotten Tomatoes reports that 44% of 16 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 5/10. Leonard Klady of \"Variety\" wrote, \"Sweetly sentimental and anachronistically whimsical, \"Bogus\" is a modern metaphor oddly out of step with contemporary taste.\" Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"Jewison lays on the dry ice and special effects without adding emotion to a slow, hackneyed story.\" Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" rated it 3/4 stars and called it \"a charming, inconsequential fantasy\" that wisely avoids realism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924889", "title": "Nikolay Davydenko", "text": "Nikolay Davydenko\n\nNikolay Vladimirovich Davydenko (; born 2 June 1981) is a Russian former professional tennis player. He achieved a career-high singles ranking of World No. 3 in November 2006. Davydenko's best result in a Grand Slam tournament was reaching the semi-finals, which he accomplished on four occasions: twice each at the French Open and the U.S. Open, losing to Roger Federer in all but one of them. His biggest achievement was winning the 2009 ATP World Tour Finals, and he also won three ATP Masters Series. In mid-October 2014 Davydenko retired from competitions.\n\nDavydenko was granted Russian citizenship in 1999 at the age of 18, and after that represented Russia. In 2007, he applied for Austrian citizenship (so as to obtain dual citizenship) and had also previously applied for German citizenship.\n\nHe and his wife, Irina, have one child, a daughter named Yekaterina. His nephew Philipp is also a professional tennis player.\n\nDavydenko started playing at the age of seven with his brother, Eduard. During his junior tennis years, he moved to Salmtal, Germany with Eduard to further improve and participate in more tournaments.\n\nDavydenko turned professional in 1999. In 2000, he played mainly on the Futures Tour, where he captured one title and reached three finals. He made his ATP debut at Amsterdam, reaching the semifinal. Later in August, he won his first Challenger title in Mönchengladbach.\n\nDavydenko made his Grand Slam debut in 2001 at the Australian Open, where he made it to the second round, before losing to former world no. 1, Patrick Rafter in four sets. This performance captured the public eye for his talent and ability. Later in February, he injured his lower back in Dallas and was out for six weeks. After the injury, he came back to win two Challenger titles in Ulm and Istanbul. He finished the season with a quarterfinal showing in Basel.\n\nIn 2002, Davydenko continued to play on both the ATP Tour and in Challenger events. It was a steady year with quarterfinal appearances in Båstad and Vienna. During the year, he captured his fourth Challenger title in Szczecin.\n\nDavydenko made huge strides on the ATP Tour in 2003. He opened the season with his first ATP title in Adelaide, defeating Kristof Vliegen in the final. A few months later, he captured his second tour title in Estoril on clay, beating Agustín Calleri. His season was backed up with solid performances on clay in Barcelona and St. Pölten, reaching the quarterfinal and final, respectively. After a solid year, Davydenko finished in the top 50 for the first time in his career.\n\nHis progress continued in 2004, capturing two more titles for the second consecutive year. After a slow start to season, a quarterfinal in the Monte Carlo Masters kicked off a 10–2 matches run. A week later, he won his third title in Munich. He backed up his win by reaching the semifinal in Stuttgart, losing to Guillermo Cañas. In October, he captured his first home-soil victory in Moscow by winning both the singles and doubles (partnering Igor Andreev). He finished the season in the top 30 for the first time.\n\nIn 2005, he began the season by reaching the quarterfinals for the first time in a Grand Slam at the Australian Open. During the clay season, he captured his fifth career title in St. Pölten, beating home favourite, Jürgen Melzer. He continued his solid form by reaching the semifinals of the Hamburg Masters and his first semifinal of a Grand Slam at the French Open. In the fourth round of the French Open, he upset one of the tournament favourites and the previous year's runner-up, Guillermo Coria, 2–6, 6–3, 7–6, 6–2. This win showed just how far Davydenko had come in the last year, as Coria had beaten Davydenko with the loss of just six games in the 2004 French Open first round.\n\nDavydenko lost in the semifinals of the 2005 French Open to Mariano Puerta in five close sets, 3–6, 7–5, 6–2, 4–6, 4–6. Davydenko reached the top 10 for the first time after the 2005 French Open. He closed out the year by reaching the quarterfinals at the Cincinnati Masters and the Paris Masters. After a great season, he qualified for the Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai for the first time and reached the semifinals, losing to David Nalbandian. He finished the year as the no. 1 Russian and world no. 5.\n\nAfter his rapid rise into the top 5 in 2005, Davydenko continued to stay in the top 5 for 2006. He repeated his quarterfinal appearance at the Australian Open, losing to Roger Federer in four tight sets, 4–6, 6–3, 6–7, 6–7. He had another solid clay-court season, reaching the final in Estoril and the quarterfinal, at the Hamburg Masters. He defended his title in Pöertschach and reached the quarterfinal at the French Open for the second year. His form continued after an early loss at Wimbledon with wins in Sopot and his first American win in New Haven. He reached his second Grand Slam semifinal at the U.S. Open, losing to Roger Federer. He finished the season with a win in Moscow and his first career TMS title in Paris. After getting married, Davydenko helped Russia win the Davis Cup against Argentina. He reached a career-high ranking of no. 3, with which he finished the year.\n\n2007 started with another quarterfinal appearance at the Australian Open for the third consecutive year. He was slow to find his form in the clay court season, but finally did at the Rome Masters, losing in the semifinal to Rafael Nadal in an enthralling match, 6–7, 7–6, 4–6. His good form continued, and he reached the semifinals for the second time at the French Open, losing to Roger Federer again, 5–7, 6–7, 6–7. At Wimbledon, he surprised the tennis world by reaching the fourth round on his least preferred surface. Moving to the hard-court season in the US, Davydenko had strong showings in the Canada Masters and the Cincinnati Masters, reaching the quarterfinals and semifinals, respectively. Davydenko then reached the semifinals of the U.S. Open for the second consecutive year, before losing to Roger Federer, 5–7, 1–6, 5–7. He won his eleventh career title in Moscow, defeating Paul-Henri Mathieu. In November, he took part in the Masters Cup, which took place in Shanghai, China. He played in the Red group round robin, losing to eventual champion Roger Federer 2:0 sets, losing to Andy Roddick 2:1 sets, and beating Fernando Gonzales 2:0 sets, thus finishing 3rd in the group, meaning he did not reach the knockout stage. Davydenko ended the year ranked no. 4 and in the top 5 for the third straight year.\n\nDavydenko started 2008 at the Australian Open, where he was seeded fourth. He won his first three matches in straight sets, but in the fourth round he lost to countryman Mikhail Youzhny, 6–7, 3–6, 1–6. In Dubai, he reached the semifinals, losing to Feliciano López in three sets. He then went on to win his biggest career title to date at the Miami Masters. En route to the win, he defeated Andy Roddick in the semifinals and Rafael Nadal, 6–4, 6–2, in the final to win his second ATP Masters Series title. His win over Roddick in the semifinals was his first victory in six matches, while his win over Nadal was his first in three matches.\n\nDavydenko began the European clay-court season with a final appearance in his next tournament, the Estoril Open in Portugal, where he met world no. 1, Roger Federer in the final. In the second set of the final, while trailing Federer, 6–7, 2–1, Davydenko retired with a left leg injury. He then reached the semifinals of the Monte Carlo Masters. He won his thirteenth career title in Pöertschach, defeating Juan Mónaco, 6–2, 2–6, 6–2. After a disappointing French Open, Davydenko went on to win another title, this time in Warsaw, defeating Tommy Robredo, 6–3, 6–3, in the final. Appearing at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Davydenko's stay in Beijing was brief; despite being seeded fourth at the Games, he would be upset by Paul-Henri Mathieu in the second round. He did not win back-to-back matches until the US Open. At the Open, he lost in the fourth round to qualifier Gilles Müller, 4–6, 6–4, 3–6, 6–7, breaking his streak of two straight semifinals.\n\nDavydenko reached the semifinals at the Paris Masters, losing to David Nalbandian, 1–6, 7–5, 4–6. Davydenko qualified for the Tennis Masters Cup for the fourth consecutive year. He beat Juan Martín del Potro and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the round-robin matches to progress to the semifinals, where he defeated Andy Murray, 7–5, 6–2, to reach the final. There he met Novak Djokovic, losing 1–6, 5–7. Davydenko finished the year ranked no. 5 in the world and in the top 5 for the fourth consecutive year.\n\nDavydenko started the year at an exhibition in Abu Dhabi, which featured six of the world's best players. Davydenko defeated Andy Roddick, 6–4, 6–4, before being defeated by top seed Rafael Nadal, 6–2, 6–3.\n\nHis first tour tournament was in Chennai, India, where he was the top seed. He defeated Daniel Köllerer in straight sets, but was forced to withdraw before his second-round match against Lukáš Dlouhý because of a left heel injury. This injury subsequently forced Davydenko to withdraw from the Australian Open. In Rotterdam, he was defeated in the second round by Julien Benneteau. The injury he sustained in Chennai earlier in the year returned, forcing Davydenko to withdraw from the 1000 Series tournaments in Indian Wells and Miami. This caused his ranking to fall from no. 5 to no. 9 by April 6.\n\nDavydenko returned to the tour after a two-month absence. In Monte Carlo, he defeated Ivo Karlović and David Nalbandian, before being eliminated by Andy Murray in the quarterfinals, 6–7, 4–6. In Barcelona, he posted back-to-back three-set wins over Feliciano López and Radek Štěpánek. He was ousted by world no. 1 Rafael Nadal in the semifinals, 3–6, 2–6. Despite his run in Barcelona, his ranking slipped out of the top 10 for the first time since May 23, 2005.\n\nDavydenko was upset in the early rounds in Rome. Davydenko reached his second semifinal of the year in Estoril by eliminating Juan Carlos Ferrero in the second round and Mardy Fish in the quarterfinals, but was stopped by American James Blake, 7–6, 6–7, 3–6. In his last tournament before the French Open, Nikolay advanced to the third round in Madrid, before he was forced to withdraw before his match with Andy Roddick due to a leg injury. He was able to play at Roland Garros and convincingly advanced to the quarterfinals. He dropped a set apiece to Diego Junqueira and Stanislas Wawrinka and beat eighth seed Fernando Verdasco, 6–2, 6–2, 6–4 en route. He fell to eventual runner-up Robin Söderling (who had just upset Rafael Nadal in the fourth round), 1–6, 3–6, 1–6.\n\nOn grass, Davydenko advanced to the third round at Wimbledon, before falling to Tomáš Berdych, 2–6, 3–6, 2–6, for the first time. After Wimbledon, he competed in the 2009 MercedesCup as second seed, falling to Fabio Fognini in the quarterfinals. He then won two straight titles: the 2009 International German Open, defeating Paul-Henri Mathieu, 6–4, 6–2, and the 2009 ATP Studena Croatia Open Umag, defeating Juan Carlos Ferrero, 6–3, 6–0, dropping only one set in 10 matches. Davydenko then lost to Andy Murray in the quarterfinals of the Rogers Cup in Montreal, 2–6, 4–6, a loss which snapped a 12-match winning streak. He then lost in the third round of the 2009 Cincinnati Masters to Gilles Simon, 7–6, 4–6, 4–6. Davydenko lost in the quarterfinals of the 2009 Pilot Pen Tennis to Sam Querrey. At the US Open, he reached the fourth round, before retiring against Robin Söderling with a left thigh injury.\n\nHe won his third title of the year at the 2009 Malaysian Open by beating Gaël Monfils, 6–3, 6–3, in the quarterfinals, Robin Söderling, 1–6, 7–6, 6–2, in the semifinals, and Fernando Verdasco, 6–4, 7–5, in the final. Following his triumph in Malaysia, he competed in the 2009 China Open, losing in the quarterfinals to eventual runner-up Marin Čilić, 4–6, 4–6. At the Shanghai Masters 1000 event, he defeated three seeded players en route to the final, tenth seed Fernando González, thirteenth seed Radek Štěpánek, and second seed Novak Djokovic. He upset Djokovic in the semifinals, 4–6, 6–4, 7–6. In the final, he played Rafael Nadal and again won in an upset, 7–6, 6–3.\n\nAt the ATP World Tour Finals in London, Davydenko won four of his five matches. He lost his first round-robin match to Novak Djokovic, 6–3, 4–6, 5–7, but he beat Nadal in his second match, 6–1, 7–6. He also went on to beat the odds, defeating his group leader, Robin Söderling, 7–6, 4–6, 6–3 to reach the semifinals. He recorded his first win over Roger Federer in 13 tries in the semifinals with a 6–2, 4–6, 7–5 win. With the win, Davydenko advanced to his second consecutive ATP World Tour Finals final. He won by defeating Juan Martín del Potro in the final, 6–3, 6–4. This victory meant that he became the first Russian to win the event. The straight-set victory also meant that the winner won the event in straight sets for the fourth year in a row.\n\nDavydenko finished the year ranked no. 6 in world and in the top 10 for the fifth consecutive year.\n\nDavydenko started the year at the exhibition event in Abu Dhabi, but was defeated in the first round by David Ferrer. A week later at the 2010 Qatar ExxonMobil Open, Davydenko defeated Roger Federer, 6–4, 6–4, in the semifinal and Rafael Nadal, 0–6, 7–6, 6–4, in the final to claim his twentieth ATP World Tour title. With this victory in 2010, Davydenko became the second player to beat both Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal in the same tournament (after Juan Martín del Potro at the 2009 US Open) on separate occasions. At the Australian Open, Davydenko won his first three rounds without dropping a set, before beating Spain's Fernando Verdasco in five sets. He eventually lost to Federer in the quarterfinal, 6–2, 3–6, 0–6, 5–7.\n\nDavydenko then went to Rotterdam to play in the ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament. He was the second seed but, in the semifinal against Sweden's Robin Söderling Davydenko landed on his wrist, and injured it. He continued to play and lost to the eventual champion, 6–7, 4–6. Davydenko next appeared in the Dubai Tennis Championships.\n\nAt the 2010 BNP Paribas Open at Indian Wells, Davydenko defeated Latvia's Ernests Gulbis. Before his third-round match with Viktor Troicki of Serbia, he withdrew due to a fractured wrist. Davydenko returned to the grass court in Halle, after missing the 2010 French Open. In his first match back, he beat local player Simon Greul, 7–6, 6–0. He played despite his doctor's advising him against playing the tournament. However, he lost in the next round to Benjamin Becker, 3–6, 4–6.\n\nHe then fell in the second round of 2010 Wimbledon to Daniel Brands, 6–1, 6–7, 6–7, 1–6. He then failed to win back-to-back matches in his next four tournaments until the 2010 Western & Southern Financial Group Masters, where he defeated Robby Ginepri and David Ferrer, both in three sets, before falling to Roger Federer in the quarterfinals, 4–6, 5–7. He also reached the quarterfinals of the 2010 China Open, but failed to defend his title in the Shanghai Rolex Masters and fell out the top 10 for the first time in over a year. He then reached three consecutive quarterfinals in the 2010 Open Sud de France, 2010 Valencia Open 500, and 2010 BNP Paribas Masters. Davydenko did not qualify for the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals. This was the first time he did not qualify since qualifying for the first time in 2005. He also dropped out of the top 20 for the first time in over 5 1/2 years.\n\n2011 saw a decline in Davydenko's form. His first appearance was in the Qatar Open, where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals, but he fell in the final to Roger Federer. At the 2011 Australian Open he was defeated by unseeded Florian Mayer in four sets, 3–6, 6–4, 6–7, 4–6. He then fell in the opening rounds of 2011 ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament and 2011 Open 13 to Frenchmen Michaël Llodra and Gilles Simon, respectively. In the 2011 Dubai Tennis Championships and 2011 BNP Paribas Open, he fell in the opening and second rounds to Tomáš Berdych and Stanislas Wawrinka, respectively. In the next two Masters 1000, he fell in the first round of the 2011 Sony Ericsson Open and 2011 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters. He then earned his first back-to-back wins since Doha in the 2011 Barcelona Open Banco Sabadell, but fell in the third round to Nicolás Almagro, 6–7, 3–6.\n\nThen, at the 2011 BMW Open tournament, he started slowly but progressively found some good form, which allowed him to eventually win the final, 6–3, 3–6, 6–1, against Florian Mayer. This was his 21st ATP title, and it meant that he had won at least one ATP-tour title for nine straight years and returned him back into the top 30 in the rankings. This was, however, his only final of the year and he failed to progress past the third round in any Grand Slam or Masters tournament, although his defeat at the US Open, came to world number one Novak Djokovic, 3–6, 4–6, 2–6, after victories in the first two rounds against Ivan Dodig and Potito Starace.\n\nDavydenko lost in the first round of the Australian Open to Flavio Cipolla, 4–6, 6–4, 6–3, 2–6, 1–6, and the first round of Roland Garros, to Andreas Seppi.\nHe played World No. 4, Andy Murray, in the first round of the 2012 Wimbledon Championships, and was defeated, 1–6, 1–6, 4–6. Davydenko did slightly better at the US Open, winning his first-round match against Argentinian Guido Pella but losing in the second round to local Mardy Fish in five sets. The collective results represented Davydenko's worst performance at the Grand Slams in a single year.\n\nExamining the year overall, Davydenko started poorly with a first-round loss in Doha (to world no. 3 Roger Federer) and a second-round defeat in Montpellier during January, in addition to his early exit in Australia. February started well with Davydenko reaching the semi-finals of the indoor tournament in Rotterdam, only to be defeated by Federer again. Davydenko's other best results were reaching the semi-final of the clay court tournament in Nice in May, where Davydenko was upset by Brian Baker of the USA, ranked 216 at the time; Davydenko also reached the semi-final of the indoor tournament in Metz in September, losing to Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in three sets.\n\nIn July 2012 Davydenko represented the Russian Federation at the 2012 London Olympic Games, with the tennis tournament being played at Wimbledon. In the men's singles competition Davydenko won his first-round match against Radek Štěpánek of the Czech Republic but lost in the second round to Japan's Kei Nishikori. Davydenko paired with Mikhail Youzhny in the Olympics men's doubles; they won their first-round match over Germany (Philipp Petzschner and Christopher Kas) but lost a tight match in the second round to eventual gold medallists Bob and Mike Bryan of the USA, 7-6 (8-6), 7-6 (7-1).\n\nDavydenko's final tournament appearance of 2012 was the indoor in Basel, Switzerland in late October, where he lost in the second round to Paul-Henri Mathieu. Overall, Davydenko entered 25 tournaments in 2012 and finished with a 24-23 record, winning $498,941 in prizemoney. He finished 2012 with an ATP singles ranking of 44, down from 41 at the start of 2012.\n\nDavydenko started his 2013 season by reaching the finals of the Qatar ExxonMobil Open in January after defeating Spain's David Ferrer (then ranked 5 in the world) in the semifinals. He then took on Richard Gasquet, the world number 10, in the final, eventually losing in 3 sets (3-6, 7-6 (4), 6-3). He would later appear at the French Open, reaching the third round before being knocked out by Gasquet in straight sets (4-6, 4-6, 3-6)\n\nHe ended the year in rank No. 53.\n\nIn the 2014 season, Davydenko failed to win consecutively. He lost to Daniel Brands in the first round of the Qatar Open. He was beaten by Richard Gasquet in the second round of the Australian Open. In Montpellier, Davydenko defeated world no.39 Julien Benneteau but was stunned by world no. 248 Albano Olivetti. In 2014 Open 13 second round, he was beaten by Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. At the 2014 Indian Wells Masters, he reached the second round losing to John Isner. In the 2014 Sony Open Tennis first round, he was defeated by Adrian Mannarino.\n\nDavydenko began his clay court season with a first round loss to Albert Ramos at the Barcelona Open. At BMW Open, he was defeated by Federico Delbonis. He won his first clay court match of the season at the Düsseldorf Open by defeating Dudi Sela before losing to Jiri Vesely second round. After losing the first round of the 2014 French Open, he skipped the grass court season to decide whether he would retire or not. Sources close to the Russian Davis Cup team and tennis federation said that Davydenko had decided to retire and that he would be honoured with a farewell ceremony at that year's Kremlin Cup. On October 16, Davydenko confirmed these rumors by announcing his retirement at a press conference in Moscow.\n\nDavydenko employed an offensive baseline game, using deep and penetrating groundstrokes on both wings. His groundstrokes were technically efficient on both forehand and backhand. His tremendous footspeed and anticipation enabled him to hit the ball early which caught opponents out of position and allowed him to dictate the play, somewhat similar to former world no. 1 Andre Agassi. Davydenko's best shot was his backhand, which he could hit down the line, cross court, or with extreme angles. He was known for his running shots which he took early and often turned into winners. His serve was technically correct and very consistent, even though it lacked the fire-power to become a serious weapon. Davydenko's style made him an effective player on any surface, however he was most successful on hard and clay courts, as he had not made any significant breakthroughs on grass.\n\nDavydenko's main weaknesses were his volleys, and his occasional inability to close out matches. His volleys were not as consistent as his groundstrokes, though he did have one of the best swinging volleys on tour. Many tennis analysts also criticized Davydenko for lacking variation in his game due to the fact that he mainly played from the baseline with his consistent groundstrokes. In the later years of his career, he varied his game by employing the slice and moving into the net more often. Davydenko's difficulty closing matches lost him numerous important matches after holding the lead. This was evident during the 2006 Tennis Masters Cup against James Blake and Rafael Nadal where he won the first set and had the lead in the second, but lost. Against Roger Federer, he blew a lead at the 2006 and 2010 Australian Opens as well as at the 2007 French Open. In the 2006 Australian Open, he had three set points in the third to go up 2 sets to 1, but lost the set and eventually the match.\n\nBeginning mid-2010, he began using Dunlop Sport racquets and was using the Dunlop Biomimetic 200 Plus. However, in the beginning of 2012, he stopped the contract with Dunlop and returned to using the Prince Ozone Pro Tour.\n\nAt the 2014 BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells California, Davydenko was playing with a Babolat AeroPro Drive GT.\n\nDavydenko wore Asics shoes and clothing towards the end of his career.\n\nIn January 2007, Davydenko was fined AU$10,000 and apologised to Sydney International organisers after criticising the tournament for being \"too small\" and withdrawing from the tournament due to injury.\n\nThe ATP launched a match fixing investigation of Davydenko's match against Martín Vassallo Argüello in Sopot of 2 August 2007, after several large bets were placed at an online British gambling company, Betfair, in Argüello's favour after Davydenko had won the first set 6–2. Davydenko withdrew from the match during the third set with a foot injury. Although Davydenko had suffered three first-round defeats in his last three tournaments, was injured in an earlier-round match, and showed signs of injury in the second set, it did not make sense to Betfair that such a heavy betting volume would go in Argüello's direction at that point of time in the match. Per its agreement with the ATP, Betfair notified the Tour. It has since been revealed that nine people based in Russia had bet US$1.5M on Davydenko losing while two unknown people would gain US$6M from the loss. A total of $7M was wagered on the match, ten times the usual amount. Due to these irregularities, all bets were voided. On September 11, 2008, Davydenko, along with Argüello, were cleared of any involvement in match-fixing. The inquiry, which lasted over a year, was the longest ever held into match-fixing in tennis.\n\nFurther controversy also surrounded Davydenko after one of his matches at St. Petersburg Open in October 2007. During his 1–6, 7–5, 6–1 defeat by Marin Čilić, he was given a code violation by umpire Jean-Philippe Dercq for not giving his best effort. He was later fined $2000 by the ATP, but the fine was rescinded upon appeal. The following week, he lost 6–2, 6–2 to Marcos Baghdatis at the Paris Masters. This generated some controversy, as Davydenko was cautioned by the umpire to do his best during the match.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924891", "title": "SK8-TV", "text": "SK8-TV\n\nSK8-TV is a program shown on Nickelodeon that began in 1990 and was originally hosted by Matthew Lillard (who went by the name Matthew Lynn at the time) and Skatemaster Tate. It was a skateboard variety show that featured on-set interviews as well as off site action segments. Various techniques were introduced to television in SK8-TV including hand-held cameras and the use of multi-format film and video. The set for the show was built on location at the Pink Motel in Sun Valley, California, which was famous for its large fish shaped pool that was ideal for skateboarding. It hosted a wide variety of skateboarders such as Christian Hosoi, Natas Kaupas, a young Tony Hawk and many others that went on to become famous and well known. It was created and produced by original Z-Boys Nathan Pratt and Mark Ashton Hunt from Binder Entertainment, directed by Stacy Peralta, who later went on to direct the retrospective documentary \"Dogtown and Z-Boys\" with production design by C. R. Stecyk III. It later resurfaced on the now-defunct Nick GAS channel in 1999 and aired until 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924894", "title": "AND gate", "text": "AND gate\n\nThe AND gate is a basic digital logic gate that implements logical conjunction - it behaves according to the truth table to the right. A HIGH output (1) results only if all the inputs to the AND gate are HIGH (1). If none or not all inputs to the AND gate are HIGH, a LOW output results. The function can be extended to any number of inputs.\n\nThere are three symbols for AND gates: the American (ANSI or 'military') symbol and the IEC ('European' or 'rectangular') symbol, as well as the deprecated DIN symbol. Additional inputs can be added as needed. For more information see Logic Gate Symbols. It can also be denoted as symbol \"^\" or \"&\".\n\nThe AND gate with inputs \"A\" and \"B\" and output \"C\" implements the logical expression formula_1. This expression also may be denoted as C=A^B or C=A&B.\n\nAn AND gate is usually designed using N-channel (pictured) or P-channel MOSFETs. The digital inputs a and b cause the output F to have the same result as the AND function.\n\nformula_2 is the analytical representation of AND gate:\n\n\nIf no specific AND gates are available, one can be made from NAND or NOR gates, because NAND and NOR gates are \"universal gates,\" meaning that they can be used to make all the others.\n\nAND gates are available in IC packages. The 7408 IC is a well known QUAD 2-Input AND GATES and contains four independent gates each of which performs the logic AND function. \n"}
{"id": "1924895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924895", "title": "2×4 (Einstürzende Neubauten album)", "text": "2×4 (Einstürzende Neubauten album)\n\n2X4 is a collection of concert recordings by the German group Einstürzende Neubauten. ROIR released \"2X4\" in 1984 in cassette-only format (as was the case for all early ROIR releases). The live tracks were recorded in various European cities between 1980 and 1983. Kurt Loder wrote the liner notes. The album was re-released on CD in 1997.\n\nThe title refers to the four tracks on each side of the cassette (or possibly to dimensional lumber, which the band was likely to use as a part of its instrumentation).\n\n"}
{"id": "1924898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924898", "title": "Put (band)", "text": "Put (band)\n\nPut is a Croatian pop group from Rijeka.\n\nIt was selected from members of Putokazi, in order to appear at 1993 Eurovision Song Contest as the very first representative of independent Croatia, singing \"Don't Ever Cry\". The members of the group were Vivien Galletta, Angela Jeličić, Melita Sedić, Naim Ajra, Petar Cucak Migliaccio and Olja Desic.\n"}
{"id": "1924900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924900", "title": "Iconolatry", "text": "Iconolatry\n\nIconolatry (Greek εἰκών \"eikon\", \"picture or image,\" and λατρεία \"latreia\", \"veritable (full) worship or adoration\") designates the idolatric worship or adoration of icons. In the history of Christianity, iconolatry was manifested mainly in popular worship, as a superstitious belief in the divine nature of icons. It was practiced as a direct adoration of icons, and other objects representing various saints, angels and the God. One of extreme practices of iconolatry was scraping parts of icons into the Holy Communion.\n\nIconolatry is the opposite of iconoclasm, and also should not be confused with iconophilia, designating the moderate veneration of icons. Both extreme positions, iconolatry and iconoclasm, were rejected in 787 by the Second Council of Nicaea, being the seventh Ecumenical Council. The Council decided that holy icons should not be destroyed, as was advocated and practiced by the Byzantine iconoclasm, nor veritable (full) worshiped or adored (; ), as was practiced by iconolatry, but to be only venerated as symbolic representations of God, angels, or saints.\n\nIcon in Greek simply denotes a picture but has now come to be closely associated with religious art used by the Orthodox and Roman Catholic Churches. Icons are used by Orthodox Churches to assist in prayer and worship of God. Icon (image) is the same word used in the Bible in , .\n\nThe Orthodox Church (while finally reinstating the icons) held at least two Church councils to decide on the proper use of icons. The Council of Hieria in 754 expressly forbade the making of icons, and ordered all pictures of Jesus and the saints to be removed from the churches, saying that they ought instead to be decorated with pictures of birds, flowers, and fruit. This council was held near Constantinople, and all attending bishops were from the Constantinople Patriarchate. The other patriarchs refused to send any delegates.\n\nThe Second Council of Nicaea held in 787 reversed the decisions of that council. This Council of Church leaders (bishops) was a key step towards an alternate understanding of the use of religious art in the Church. An early Church council defined veneration of icons based on the sacred mystery of the Incarnation of Jesus Christ. The Person of Jesus was thought to reveal not only the Word of God (), but the image of God (). Pre-Christian scriptures defined idolatry as worshipping of false gods. Church leaders defended images of Christ on the basis that they were representations of the true incarnation God and clarified the relationship between an image and the one depicted by the image. The principle of respected worship is that, in honoring an image, the honor is to paid not to the image itself, but the one who is portrayed. After the period of Iconoclasm was over, respected veneration of icons spread to Serbia, Bulgaria, and to distant Russia.\n\nDepictions of icons bearing the image of God the Father were forbidden in the Orthodox Church, unless depicted in the context of the Revelation or Apocalypse of Saint John, where God the Father is described as an older version of Jesus. Some prefer the depiction of God in the icon type of Rublev's Holy Trinity. Others believe that, as no-one has ever seen God the Father, he should never be depicted in icons, while Jesus, who was seen by human eyes, is allowed to be pictured.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924901", "title": "OR gate", "text": "OR gate\n\nThe OR gate is a digital logic gate that implements logical disjunctionit behaves according to the adjacent truth table. A HIGH output (1) results if one or both the inputs to the gate are HIGH (1). If neither input is high, a LOW output (0) results. In another sense, the function of OR effectively finds the \"maximum\" between two binary digits, just as the complementary AND function finds the \"minimum\".\n\nThere are two symbols of OR gates: the American (ANSI or 'military') symbol and the IEC ('European' or 'rectangular') symbol, as well as the deprecated DIN symbol. For more information see Logic Gate Symbols.\n\nOR gates are basic logic gates, and are available in TTL and CMOS ICs logic families. The standard 4000 series CMOS IC is the 4071, which includes four independent two-input OR gates. The TTL device is the 7432. There are many offshoots of the original 7432 OR gate, all having the same pinout but different internal architecture, allowing them to operate in different voltage ranges and/or at higher speeds. In addition to the standard 2-input OR gate, 3- and 4-input OR gates are also available. In the CMOS series, these are:\n\nVariations include:\n\nformula_1 is the analytical representation of OR gate:\n\nIf no specific OR gates are available, one can be made from NAND or NOR gates in the configuration shown in the image below. Any logic gate can be made from a combination of NAND or NOR gates.\n\nWith active low open collector logic outputs, as used for control signals in many circuits, an OR function can be produced by wiring together several outputs. This arrangement is called a \"wired OR\". This implementation of an OR function typically is also found in integrated circuits of N or P-type only transistor processes. \n\n"}
{"id": "1924905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924905", "title": "Jonathan M. Marks", "text": "Jonathan M. Marks\n\nJonathan M. Marks (born 1955) is an American biological anthropologist at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. He is a significant figure in anthropology, especially on the topic of race. Marks is skeptical of genetic explanations of human behavior, of \"race\" as a biological category, and of science as a rationalistic endeavor. \n\nBorn in 1955, Marks studied at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and took graduate degrees in genetics and anthropology from the University of Arizona, completing his doctorate in 1984.\n\nMarks did post-doctoral research in the genetics department at UC-Davis from 1984-1987, then taught at Yale for 10 years and Berkeley for 3, before settling in Charlotte where he is now a professor at the University of North Carolina-Charlotte.\n\nMarks is a leading figure in anthropology, especially when it comes to public discussions of race. His work has been praised by such social scientists as Alondra Nelson, Agustín Fuentes, Barbara J. King, and Holly Dunsworth.\n\nMarks has also served on the Board of Directors of the Indigenous Peoples Council on Biocolonialism, Nixon, Nevada.\n\nIn 2012, he received the First Citizens Bank Scholars Medal, honoring his career of intellectual inquiry.\n\nMarks is skeptical of scientists’ understanding of genetics and how genes relate to individual humans or to human groups. He contends that genetic differences do not adequately describe the relationships between humans and chimpanzees because the two species are 98% similar genetically but very different physically and behaviorally.\n\nMarks published works include many scholarly articles and essays. He is an outspoken critic of scientific racism, and has prominently argued against the idea that \"race\" is a natural category. In Marks's view, \"race\" is a negotiation between patterns of biological variation and patterns of perceived difference. He argues that race and human diversity are different subjects, and do not map on to one another well.\n\nAs described in his book \"Is Science Racist?\", Marks considers science to have four epistemic qualities: naturalism, experimentalism, rationalism, and a primary value on accuracy. In this book and in \"Why I Am Not a Scientist\", he argues that anthropologists are ambiguously scientists. Rather, their purpose is use both scientific and humanistic practice to understand the human condition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924911", "title": "Gemma (botany)", "text": "Gemma (botany)\n\nA gemma (plural \"gemmae\") is a single cell, or a mass of cells, or a modified bud of tissue, that detaches from the parent and develops into a new individual. This type of asexual reproduction is referred to as fragmentation. It is a means of asexual propagation in plants. These structures are commonly found in fungi, algae, liverworts and mosses, but also in some flowering plants such as pygmy sundews and some species of butterworts. Vascular plants have many other methods of asexual reproduction including bulbils and turions.\n\nThe production of gemmae is a widespread means of asexual reproduction in both liverworts and mosses. In liverworts such as \"Marchantia\", the flattened plant body or thallus is a haploid gametophyte with gemma cups scattered about its upper surface. The gemma cups are cup-like structures containing gemmae. The gemmae are small discs of haploid tissue, and they directly give rise to new gametophytes. They are dispersed from gemma cups by rainfall.\n\nThe gemmae are bilaterally symmetrical and are not differentiated into dorsal and ventral surfaces. The mature gemmae fall on the ground and if conditions are suitable their germination starts immediately. The surface of the gemma which comes in contact of the soil gives out many rhizoids. This surface eventually becomes the lower(ventral) surface of the thallus. Meanwhile, the apical cells present in the two lateral notches become active and form two thalli in opposite directions. \n\n"}
{"id": "1924921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924921", "title": "Tony Cetinski", "text": "Tony Cetinski\n\nAnthony \"Tony\" Cetinski (born 31 May 1969) is a Croatian pop singer.\nToday, he is one of the most popular male singers in Croatia and countries of the former Yugoslavia.\n\nBorn into a family of musicians in Pula (then SR Croatia, SFR Yugoslavia), Cetinski began singing when he was 15 years old with various local groups. He moved from Rovinj to Zagreb in 1991 to start his career, and quickly became one of Croatia's leading pop stars. In 1994 he represented Croatia at the Eurovision Song Contest with the song \"Nek' ti bude ljubav sva\". In 2003 Tony released his eighth studio album \"A sada\" with 14 tracks: \"Blago onom tko te ima\", \"Moje sve\", \"Ostani zauvijek\", \"Sve bih opet\", \"Rijeka ljubavi\", \"Daj mi sve\", \"Zauvijek\", \"Nebo iznad nas\", \"Zvijezda\", \"Sve svoje snove\", \"Iz dana u dan\", \"Ti\", \"Reci da li znaš\" and \"O sole mio\".\n\nAt the 10th Croatian Radio Festival in 2006, Cetinski won all three prizes in pop-rock category: HRF Grand Prix – pop-rock, Listener's award and Music Editors award. He also recorded the song \"Lagala nas mala\" as a duet with the late Toše Proeski. This song appears on both of Toše Proeski's 2005 albums \"Po tebe\" and the Croatian edition \"Pratim te\". The song was also done as a remix by DeeJay Time.\n\nIn 2009 Cetinski won the Porin award for best male vocal performance with his song \"\"Ako to se zove ljubav\"\". Cetinski sold out two concerts in Arena Zagreb the same year with more than 30,000 people attending.\nTony is married to Dubravka Cetinski. \n\nHe is a devout Roman Catholic. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924927", "title": "Valiasr Street", "text": "Valiasr Street\n\nValiasr Street () or Pahlavi Street () is a tree-lined street in Tehran, Iran, dividing the metropolis into western and eastern parts built in 1922 to 1927, considering the end of asphalt plan it ended in 1933. It is considered one of Tehran's main thoroughfares and commercial centres. It is also the longest street in the Middle East, and was reported as one of the longest in the world by former BBC (now Al Jazeera) journalist Rageh Omaar during the television documentary \"Welcome to Tehran\".\n\nThe street was built by Reza Shah Pahlavi's order and called the Pahlavi Street. After the 1979 Islamic Revolution the street's name was changed initially to Mossadeq Street (in reference to former nationalist prime minister Mohammad Mossadegh) and later to Valiasr (a reference to the 12th Shi'ite Imam). This vibrant, hub-like street is lined with many shops, restaurants, parks and cultural centers are situated along this long avenue.\n\nValiasr Avenue is the main Shopping street in Tehran and whole Iran. Many foreign chain stores have branches on this street like Benetton Group (three stores), Reebok, Adidas, etc. Many important shopping centers of Tehran are located on the Valiasr street like the Tandis Center (located at northeast point of the street at Tajrish Sq.), the Safavieh Mall, the Eskan Shopping center and many more. Many luxury jewellery and accessories stores such as Rolex and Tag Heuer are located on this street. Furthermore, hundreds of other local stores are located at Valiasr.\n\n\nValiasr runs from the Tehran's railway station (1117 meters elevation above sea level) in the south of the city to the Tajrish square (1612 meters elevation above sea level) in the north.\n\nValiasr runs for 12 miles (19.3 kilometers), north to south, and is filled with traffic at all hours, even until the early hours of the morning. The shops stay open late and the kiosks sell fresh fruit juice, coffee and newspapers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924929", "title": "Maja Blagdan", "text": "Maja Blagdan\n\nMaja Blagdan (born 16 May 1968) is a Croatian pop singer. She began her singing career in a rock band, Stijene, in 1986. Later she had a solo career. Her first solo album was released in 1993.\n\nShe represented Croatia at the Eurovision Song Contest 1996 held in Oslo. Her song \"Sveta ljubav\" (Holy Love) finished 4th with 98 points.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924934", "title": "List of Austrian mountain climbers", "text": "List of Austrian mountain climbers\n\nThis is a list of Austrian mountaineers. On 5 of the 14 Eight-thousanders Austrians have made the first ascent, more than any other nation can claim. Out of the total of 9 Austrian mountaineers who made first ascents of Eight-thousanders, 3 have been members of the Edelweiss Club Salzburg, an association of mountaineers founded in Salzburg in 1881\nEight-thousanders Austrian First Ascent\n\nOther Austrian mountaineers\n\n"}
{"id": "1924953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924953", "title": "Psychic bid", "text": "Psychic bid\n\nPsychic bid (also psych, pronounced to rhyme with \"like\") is a bid in contract bridge that grossly misstates the power and/or suit lengths of one's hand. It is used deliberately to deceive the opponents. Normally, the psychic bid is made with a weak hand, overstating its overall strength, the length and strength in a particular suit, or both. (The noun is occasionally misspelled as \"psyche\", through confusion with Psyche, a character in a myth concerning Venus and Cupid.)\n\nAs an early frequent user of the technique, Dorothy Rice Sims is often thought to be the originator of the psychic bid; however, according to bridge player and writer, Albert Morehead, \"She did not actually invent the psychic bid, though it is generally credited to her, but she did give it its name and she wrote the first and only book about it.\" and is regarded as having coined the term \"psychic\".\n\nAfter two successive passes, this hand might be opened with 1 as a psych, trying to stop opponents from reaching a likely game or even slam. Some might open with a 1 psych, to confuse matters further. Of course, there is always a danger that the partner will double the opponents on the basis of opener's presumed strength, or support the psychic opening at too high a level.\n\nNorth opens 1 and South can see that game in notrump is probably the best prospect. South might support clubs directly, bid 2NT, or temporize with 1 or 1. But South might instead bid 1, a psych that attempts to talk the opponents out of a diamond lead against 3NT.\n\nRight-hand opponent opens 1. Instead of preempting in diamonds, South can bid 1NT to confuse matters, running to diamonds if doubled. This type of psych is referred to as the comic notrump.\n\nSome psychic bids are so common that they are often referred to as \"mini-psychs\". For example, many would consider a hand such as to be an automatic 1 bid after partner opens 1 and the right-hand opponent doubles for takeout—it is made in an attempt to talk the opponents out of their likely spade fit, subsequently escaping to 3 if necessary.\n\nPer rules of the game, the partner of a player who has psyched must not take advantage of any special knowledge of the partnership's habits. So a partnership that uses occasional psychic bids must take care to ensure full disclosure — not only of its formal bidding system but also of its habits. For example, if a partnership tends to psych under certain circumstances, it is much better prepared to recognize a psych, and to cope with it, than are its opponents. The game's Laws and Proprieties therefore require disclosure of the partnership's tendency.\n\nIn duplicate bridge, sponsoring organizations often impose a number of restrictions on psychic bids. For example, psychs of strong artificial opening bids (such as strong two clubs) are not allowed by the American Contract Bridge League (ACBL). In addition, if the partner is perceived to have bid abnormally due to taking account of a psych, then the score may be adjusted. Also, partnership agreements to use a \"check bid\" or psychic control to verify the psych may either be banned entirely (as by the ACBL) or limited in their usage (as by the World Bridge Federation, which designates them brown sticker conventions).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924969", "title": "Rickard Engfors", "text": "Rickard Engfors\n\nRickard Engfors (born November 22, 1976 in Haninge, Stockholm) is a Swedish model, stylist and former drag queen.\n\nHis career began in 1996 as an artist in Swedish drag troupe After Dark and he was quickly appointed to \"Christer Lindarws crown prince\" and was also known as \"Sweden's best looking girl\". He has performed for royalty, won awards for his artistic efforts and shared the stage with many of Sweden's most beloved artists.\n\nHe acts as female lead singer in the music video of the 2003 single Pass This On by The Knife. In 2004 the Swedish fashion house Panos Emporio chose Rickard as its house model for a swimwear range, which caused so much controversy that it was re-shot using a Greek model called Aleka.\n\nEngfors participated in Melodifestivalen 2005 with the song Ready for Me.\n\n\"Scandinavian drag artists\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1924975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924975", "title": "2005 Monaco Grand Prix", "text": "2005 Monaco Grand Prix\n\nThe 2005 Monaco Grand Prix (formally the LXIII Grand Prix de Monaco) was a Formula One motor race held on 22 May 2005 at the Circuit de Monaco in Monte Carlo, Monaco. The 78-lap race was the sixth round of the 2005 Formula One season and the 63rd running of the Monaco Grand Prix. It was won by polesitter and McLaren driver Kimi Räikkönen. Williams driver Nick Heidfeld completed the race in second position whilst his teammate, Mark Webber, completed the podium by finishing in third place.\n\nThis was the first Monaco Grand Prix held after the death of Prince Rainier III. His death was the reason why the Princely Family did not attend the Grand Prix.\n\nIn practice, Christijan Albers lost his car out coming from turn 4 and crashed. Juan Pablo Montoya, Jacques Villeneuve, David Coulthard and Ralf Schumacher crashed as they were coming up high from Beau Rivage. Montoya was judged to be the cause of this incident and thus was forced to start the race from the back of the grid.\n\nPolesitter Kimi Räikkönen led the field from the start of the race, and though he was at first closely followed by Fernando Alonso, he was more than five seconds ahead by the twentieth lap. Meanwhile, Narain Karthikeyan retired with a hydraulic failure. The race progressed otherwise uneventfully, with Fernando Alonso followed by Giancarlo Fisichella, Jarno Trulli, and Mark Webber, until the twenty-third lap, when Christijan Albers spun his Minardi into a wall at Mirabeau, blocking about two-thirds of the width of the track. David Coulthard, arriving behind him, swerved and successfully stopped his Red Bull without damage; however, Michael Schumacher plowed into Coulthard, breaking off his own nosecone and damaging the Red Bull's suspension beyond repair. As more drivers reached the blocked turn, the Safety Car was deployed so that marshals could remove Albers' car.\n\nBoth Renault drivers pitted immediately, but Räikkönen - acting on instructions from McLaren chief strategist Neil Martin - continued on in what was to prove a winning move. Though this seemingly put Räikkönen in a bad spot, as all of his close competitors had pitted, he fought back with a series of brilliant laps that would give him a 34.7-second lead by the time he pitted on lap 42. Alonso, whose car was substantially slower as it was full of fuel, and whose rear tyres were wearing rapidly, was unable to catch up, and Räikkönen, after pitting, returned to the track still 13 seconds ahead. He would go on to win the race having led every lap of it.\n\nNick Heidfeld worked his way up from sixth grid position, passing his own teammate in the pits after Williams called him in a lap earlier whilst Alonso was badly holding the two Williams drivers up. After Heidfeld's stop, a superb overtaking manoeuvre into the Nouvelle chicane put him ahead of Alonso. Webber tried to follow suit a lap later, but on the first attempt Alonso cut the corner and stayed in front. On the second attempt Alonso cut the corner again, this time clearly intentionally, but Webber eventually succeeded in overtaking him and claiming his first career podium in Formula One and scoring Williams last double podium finish until the 2014 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix over nine years later. Alonso straggled into fourth, his rear tyres almost entirely bald. Montoya advanced from sixteenth on the grid to an eventual fifth, finishing on Alonso's tail, followed by Michael and Ralf Schumacher, who crossed the line almost side-by-side.\n\nBoth Red Bull Racing cars ran with the \"\" livery and, for this race, the Red Bull Racing pit crew dressed up as Imperial Stormtroopers. It didn't help the team's fortunes, as this was the first race where they failed to score points.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924982", "title": "A Happy Death", "text": "A Happy Death\n\nA Happy Death (original title La mort heureuse) is a novel by Absurdist French writer-philosopher Albert Camus. The existentialist topic of the book is the \"will to happiness,\" the conscious creation of one's happiness, and the need of time (and money) to do so. It draws on memories of the author including his job at the maritime commission in Algiers, his suffering from tuberculosis, and his travels in Europe.\n\nCamus composed and reworked the novel between 1936 and 1938 but then decided not to publish it. It was eventually published in 1971, over 11 years after the author's death. The English translation by Richard Howard appeared in 1972.\n\n\"A Happy Death\" was Camus' first novel and was clearly the precursor to his most famous work, \"The Stranger\", published in 1942. The main character in \"A Happy Death\" is named \"Patrice Mersault\", similar to \"The Stranger\"'s \"Meursault\"; both are French Algerian court clerks who kill another man. \"A Happy Death\" is written in the third person, whereas \"The Stranger\" is written in the first person. The novel has just over 100 pages and consists of two parts.\n\nPart 1, titled \"Natural death\", describes the monotone and empty life of Patrice Mersault with his boring office job and a meaningless relationship with his girlfriend Marthe. Mersault gets to know the rich invalid Roland Zagreus (Zagreus is a character of Greek mythology) who shows Mersault a way out: \"Only it takes time to be happy. A lot of time. Happiness, too, is a long patience. And in almost every case, we use up our lives making money, when we should be using our money to gain time.\" Zagreus implies that his life is a meaningless waste, and so Meursault decides to kill him in order to create his own happiness with the rich man's money.\n\nPart 2, titled \"Conscious death\", follows Mersault's subsequent trip to Europe. Traveling by train from city to city, he is unable to find peace and decides to return to Algiers, to live in a house high above the sea with three young female friends. Everybody here has only one goal: the pursuit of happiness by abandoning the world. Yet Mersault needs solitude. He marries a pleasant woman named Lucienne whom he does not love, buys a house in a village by the sea, and moves in alone. \"At this hour of night, his life seemed so remote to him, he was so solitary and indifferent to everything and to himself as well, that Mersault felt he had at last attained what he was seeking, that the peace which filled him now was born of that patient self-abandonment he had pursued and achieved with the help of this warm world so willing to deny him without anger.\" \nSeverely ill, he dies a happy death: \"And stone among the stones, he returned in the joy of his heart to the truth of the motionless worlds.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1924983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924983", "title": "Braceville Township, Trumbull County, Ohio", "text": "Braceville Township, Trumbull County, Ohio\n\nBraceville Township is one of the twenty-four townships of Trumbull County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 2,887 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the southwestern part of the county, it borders the following townships and village:\n\nA small part of the city of Newton Falls is located in southern Braceville Township, and the unincorporated community of Center of the World lies in the township's east. In 1990, the Turnpike Interchange Census-designated place [CDP] was located in Braceville Township; however, this ceased to be a CDP after the 1990 Census.\n\nBraceville Township covers an area of . The Ravenna Training and Logistics Site covers the southwest corner of the township.\n\nBraceville Township was established in the 1810s, and named after Jonathan Brace, a land agent. It is the only Braceville Township statewide.\n\nBraceville Township was formed from the Connecticut Western Reserve.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924986", "title": "E.N.I. (band)", "text": "E.N.I. (band)\n\nE.N.I. is Croatian pop band from Rijeka.\n\nLike the Rijeka group Put four years earlier, E.N.I. was created out of Putokazi in order to compete in at the Eurovision Song Contest 1997 with the song \"Probudi me\". \n\nIn the campaign for 2000 parliamentary elections they, together with many other rock musicians, supported Social Democratic Party of Croatia and other opposition parties. They also appeared at 2004 Zagreb Pride parade and festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924995", "title": "Indian classical drama", "text": "Indian classical drama\n\nThe term Indian classical drama refers to the tradition of dramatic literature and performance in ancient India. The origin of dramatic performance in the Indian subcontinent can be traced back to as early as 200 BCE. Its drama is regarded as the highest achievement of Sanskrit literature. Buddhist philosopher Asvaghosa who composed Buddhacarita is considered to have been the first Sanskrit dramatist.\n\nDespite its name, a classical Sanskrit drama uses both Sanskrit and Prakrit languages giving it a bilingual nature. Sanskrit drama utilised stock characters, such as the hero (\"nayaka\"), heroine (\"nayika\"), or clown (\"vidusaka\"). Actors may have specialised in a particular type. Mahābhāṣya by Patañjali contains the earliest reference to what may have been the seeds of Sanskrit drama. This treatise on grammar provides a feasible date for the beginnings of theatre in India.\n\nKālidāsa in the 4th-5th century CE, was arguably one of ancient India's greatest Sanskrit dramatists. Three famous romantic plays written by Kālidāsa are the \"Mālavikāgnimitram\" (\"Mālavikā and Agnimitra\"), \"Vikramōrvaśīyam\" (\"Pertaining to Vikrama and Urvashi\"), and \"Abhijñānaśākuntalam\" (\"The Recognition of Shakuntala\"). The last was inspired by a story in the \"Mahabharata\" and is the most famous. It was the first to be translated into English and German. \"Śakuntalā\" (in English translation) influenced Goethe's \"Faust\" (1808–1832). The next great Indian dramatist was Bhavabhuti (c. 7th century CE). He is said to have written the following three plays: \"Malati-Madhava\", \"Mahaviracharita\" and \"Uttararamacarita\". Among these three, the last two cover between them the entire epic of \"Ramayana\". The powerful Indian emperor Harsha (606–648) is credited with having written three plays: the comedy \"Ratnavali\", \"Priyadarsika\", and the Buddhist drama \"Nagananda\". Other famous Sanskrit dramatists include Śhudraka, Bhasa, and Asvaghosa. Though numerous plays written by these playwrights are still available, little is known about the authors themselves.\n\nShatapatha Brahmana (~800–700 BCE) has verses in chapter 13.2 written in the form of a play between two actors. Early Buddhist literature provides the earliest evidence for the existence of Indian theatre. The Pali suttas (ranging in date from the 5th to 3rd centuries BCE) refer to the existence of troupes of actors (led by a chief actor), who performed dramas on a stage. It is indicated that these dramas incorporated dance, but were listed as a distinct form of performance, alongside dancing, singing, and story recitations.\n\nThe earliest-surviving fragments of Sanskrit drama date from c.200 BCE. The wealth of archeological evidence from earlier periods offers no indication of the existence of a tradition of theatre. The \"Vedas\" (the earliest Indian literature, from between 1500 and 600 BCE) contain no hint of it; although a small number of hymns are composed in a form of dialogue, the rituals of the Vedic period do not appear to have developed into theatre. The \"Mahābhāṣya\" by Patañjali contains the earliest reference to what may have been the seeds of Sanskrit drama. This treatise on grammar from 140 BCE provides a feasible date for the beginnings of theatre in India.\n\nSince the time of Alexander the Great, the Indian subcontinent came into direct contact with Greek culture. This has led to a scholarly debate about how much influence Ancient Greek drama had upon the development of Indian theatre.\n\nMajor source of evidence for Sanskrit theatre is \"A Treatise on Theatre\" (\"Nātyaśāstra\"), a compendium whose date of composition is uncertain (estimates range from 200 BCE to 200 CE) and whose authorship is attributed to Bharata Muni. The \"Treatise\" is the most complete work of dramaturgy in the ancient world. It addresses acting, dance, music, dramatic construction, architecture, costuming, make-up, props, the organisation of companies, the audience, competitions, and offers a mythological account of the origin of theatre. In doing so, it provides indications about the nature of actual theatrical practices. Sanskrit theatre was performed on sacred ground by priests who had been trained in the necessary skills (dance, music, and recitation) in an hereditary process. Its aim was both to educate and to entertain.\n\nUnder the patronage of royal courts, performers belonged to professional companies that were directed by a stage manager (\"sutradhara\"), who may also have acted. This task was thought of as being analogous to that of a puppeteer—the literal meaning of \"\"sutradhara\"\" is \"holder of the strings or threads\". The performers were trained rigorously in vocal and physical technique. There were no prohibitions against female performers; companies were all-male, all-female, and of mixed gender. Certain sentiments were considered inappropriate for men to enact, however, and were thought better suited to women. Some performers played characters their own age, while others played characters younger or older than themselves. Of all the elements of theatre, the \"Treatise\" gives most attention to acting (\"abhinaya\"), which consists of two styles: realistic (\"lokadharmi\") and conventional (\"natyadharmi\"), though the major focus is on the latter.\n\nThe theory of \"rasa\" described in the text has been a major influence on the modern theatre of India as well as Indian cinema, particularly Bollywood.\n\nOne of the earliest known Sanskrit plays, this play was composed by Śudraka in the 2nd century BC. Rife with romance, sex, royal intrigue and comedy, the juicy plot of the play has numerous twists and turns. The main story is about a young man named Charudatta, and his love for Vasantasena, a rich courtesan or nagarvadhu. The love affair is complicated by a royal courtier, who is also attracted to Vasantasena. The plot is further complicated by thieves and mistaken identities, and thus making it a greatly hilarious and entertaining play. It invited widespread admiration when staged in New York in 1924. The play was made into a 1984 Hindi movie \"Utsav\", directed by Girish Karnad. The Indian play depicted in the 2001 film \"Moulin Rouge!\" may have been based on \"The Little Clay Cart\".\n\nThe plays written by Bhāsa were known to historians only through the references of later writers, as the manuscripts themselves were lost. Manuscripts of 13 plays written by him were discovered in an old library in Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum) in 1913 by the scholar Ganapati Sastri. A 14th play was later discovered and attributed to Bhāsa, but its authorship is disputed.\n\nBhāsa's most famous plays are \"Svapnavasavadattam (Swapnavāsadatta)\" (\"Vasavadatta's dream\"), \"Pancharātra\", and \"Pratijna Yaugandharayaanam\" (\"The vows of Yaugandharayana\"). Some other plays being \"Pratimanātaka, Abhishekanātaka, Bālacharita, Dūtavākya, Karnabhāra, Dūtaghatotkacha, Chārudatta, Madhyamavyāyoga\" and \"Ūrubhaṅga\".\n\n\"Karnabharam\" is a critically acclaimed play and it is being subjected to lot of experimentation by the modern theatre groups in India.\n\nBhāsa is considered to be one of the best Sanskrit playwrights, second only to Kalidasa. He is earlier than Kalidasa and is dated to the 3rd or 4th century CE.\n\nKālidāsa (4th-5th century CE) is easily the greatest poet and playwright in Sanskrit, and occupies the same position in Sanskrit literature that Shakespeare occupies in English literature. He deals primarily with famous Hindu legends and themes; three famous plays by Kālidāsa are \"Vikramōrvaśīyam\" (\"Vikrama and Urvashi\"), \"Mālavikāgnimitram\" (\"Malavika and Agnimitra\"), and the play that he is most known for: \"Abhijñānaśākuntalam\" (\"The Recognition of Shakuntala\"). The last named play is considered to be greatest play in Sanskrit. More than a millennium later, it would so powerfully impress the famous German writer Goethe that he would write:\n\nKālidāsa also wrote two large epic poems, \"Raghuvaṃśa\" (\"The Genealogy of Raghu\") and \"Kumārasambhava\" (\"Birth of Kumara\"), and two smaller epics, \"Ṛitusaṃhāra\" (\"Medley of Seasons\") and \"Meghadūta\" \"(The Cloud Messenger)\", another 'perfect' work.\n\nKālidāsa's writing is characterized by the usage of simple but beautiful Sanskrit, and by his extensive use of similes. His similes have earned him the saying, \"Upama Kalidasasya\" (Kālidāsa \"owns\" simile).\nThe full śloka reads: \"upamā Kālidāsasya, Bhāraver artha gauravam | Daṇḍinah padalālityam, Māghe shanti trayoguṇah ||\"\n\nAmongst Sanskrit plays, the historical play \"Mudrarakshasa\" is unique because it contains political intrigue and is full of life, action and sustained interest. The time period of composition is prior to 800 C.E. In the play, Chandragupta Maurya is ruling from Pataliputra, having deposed the last of the Nanda kings. \"Rakshasa\" the minister of Nanda, attempts to avenge his late master. Chanakya, the minister of Chandragupta succeeds in winning over Rakshasa to his master's side.\n\nOther great plays include \"Ratnavali\", \"Nagananda\" and \"Priyadarsika\" by Sri Harsha (7th century CE), Mahendra Vikram Varman \"Mattavilasa Prahasana\", Shakti Bhadra's \"Āścaryacūḍāmaṇi\", Kulasekhara's \"Subhadra Dhananjaya\" and \"Tapatisamvarana\", Neelakanta's \"Kalyana Saugandhika\" and \"Sri Krishna Charita\".\n\nSanskrit plays were very popular and were staged in ancient times all over India. Now the only surviving ancient Sanskrit drama theatre is Koodiyattam, which is preserved in Kerala by the Chakyar community. This form of Sanskrit drama is thought to be at least 2000 years old and is one of the oldest living theatrical traditions in the world. All major Sanskrit plays such as that of Bhasa, Sri Harsha, Shakti Bhadra etc. are performed in Koodiyattam. Guru \"Nātyāchārya Vidūshakaratnam Padma Shri\" Māni Mādhava Chākyār choreographed and directed plays like Kalidasa's \"Abhijñānaśākuntala\", \"Vikramorvaśīya\" and \"Mālavikāgnimitra\"; Bhasa's \"Swapnavāsadatta\" and \"Pancharātra\" for the first time in the history of Koodiyattam. He popularised Koodiyattam and rejuvenated the only surviving Sanskrit drama theatre in India.\n\nOne of the hypotheses (as yet without consensus) of the origins of the \"Trivandrum plays\" of Bhasa is that these 13 plays were adapted from their original sources and brought to Kerala for choreography in the Koodiyattam tradition.\n\nManmohan Acharya, a modern Sanskrit playwright has written many plays and dance dramas. Some worth-mentioning plays are \"Arjuna-Pratijnaa, Shrita-kamalam, Pada-pallavam, Divya-Jayadevam, Pingalaa, Mrtyuh, Sthitaprajnah, Tantra-mahasaktih, Purva-sakuntalam, Uttara-sakuntalam\" and \"Raavanah\". \nVidyadhar Shastri wrote three Sanskrit plays viz. \"Purnanandam\", \"Kalidainyam\" and \"Durbala Balam\".\n\nPrafulla Kumar Mishra has written the plays \"Chitrangada\" and \"Karuna\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925000", "title": "Wo Hop Shek", "text": "Wo Hop Shek\n\nWo Hop Shek () is an area in the south of Fanling, Hong Kong. It consists of villages and recently developed housing estates. The area is famous for its large public cemetery, Wo Hop Shek Public Cemetery, on the nearby hillside. Every year, during the Ching Ming Festival and Chung Yeung Festival, many people come to visit their ancestors.\n\nIn 1950–1951, a Wo Hop Shek Branch () (in fact only a long siding) of Kowloon-Canton Railway was built to transport bodies of civilians killed in World War II, and later to cater the visitor in Ching Ming Festival and Chung Yeung Festival. The whole single track branch was built upon an embankment. It branched off south of Fanling Station, at the start of the curve. The station at Wo Hop Shek was the most modern of all stations in Hong Kong at the time it was built, and instead of being a brick built structure as other stations were it was of cement and steel. Special vehicles were built to carry the bodies. The branch was abandoned after the railway was electrified in 1983. No traces can be found now of the line, but the site of the station survives as a roundabout. The start of the branch is now marked by a red gate visible on the Fanling side of the Jockey Club Road bridge, which used to be a level crossing.\n\nIn 1996, Gallant Garden (or \"Ho Yuen\", in Cantonese), in Wo Hop Shek Public Cemetery, was established for the civil servants who die of injuries during their duty. In 2000, permanent earth burial was extended to both civil servants and non-civil servants who died of exceptional bravery on duty. There is also a big Buddhist-Taoist monastery built near the cemetery. There are many shops in the villages which makes stone graves.\n\nThey are mostly public housing estates built after 1983, as reflected on the fact that part of the original trackbed of the railway branch is occupied by two of the estates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925005", "title": "Gelastocoridae", "text": "Gelastocoridae\n\nThe Gelastocoridae (toad bugs) is a family of about 100 species of insects in the suborder Heteroptera. These fall into two genera, about 15 species of \"Gelastocoris\" from the New World and 85 of \"Nerthra\" from the Old World. They are reminiscent of toads both in the warty appearance and hopping movements of some species.\n\nGelastocoridae are riparian insects, generally found at the margins of streams and ponds, where they are predators of small insects. Gelastocoridae catch their prey by leaping on top of them and grasping them with their modified front legs. Members of the family are found throughout the world, but their highest diversity is in the tropics.\n\nNymphs of many species cover themselves with a layer of sand grains. Apart from the no doubt considerable physical protection that the armour affords them, the layer of sand renders them effectively invisible on the ground unless they move at the wrong moment.\n\nGelastocoridae are short ( long) and stout, with large protuberant eyes and cryptic coloration. Like other Heteroptera, they have hemelytra for their forewings and piercing-sucking mouthparts. Their antennae are hidden.\n"}
{"id": "1925011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925011", "title": "Goran Karan", "text": "Goran Karan\n\nGoran Karan (born 2 April 1964) is a Croatian vocalist from Split. He specializes in songs influenced by Dalmatian folk music and is known for his powerful and refined tenor voice. Karan's collaboration with composer Zdenko Runjić led to some of his most acclaimed work, which won him several awards.\n\nKaran was the lead singer of Croatian rock group Big Blue, before becoming a solo artist in 1997.\n\nIn 2000 he represented Croatia at Eurovision Song Contest, after winning the Croatian pre-selection Dora. In the Eurovision Song Contest, he won the ninth place with his song \"Ostani\" (\"Stay\").\n\nIn 2005 he was one of the judges in \"Hrvatski idol\", Croatian version of Pop Idol. Karan's song \"Ružo moja bila\" won the 2005 Split Festival song competition, as well as 2005 Sunčane skale festival in Herceg Novi.\n\nIn summer 2007, deeply moved by the Kornati fire tragedy, in which 13 volunteer firemen perished, composed in the spur of the moment the song \"Ovo nije kraj\" (\"This Is Not the End\"), gathered under the name Split Star a group of famous singers (Oliver Dragojević, Marko Perković Thompson, Tedi Spalato, Dražen Zečić, Alen Nižetić, Hari Rončević) from the Split area, that performed it with him in a music video, all of this in less than fifteen days .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925017", "title": "EasyJet Switzerland", "text": "EasyJet Switzerland\n\nEasyJet Switzerland SA, styled as easyJet, is a Swiss low-cost airline based in Meyrin, Geneva. It operates scheduled flights as an EasyJet franchisee from Geneva Airport and EuroAirport Basel–Mulhouse–Freiburg.\n\nThe airline was established on 18 May 1988 as TEA Switzerland and started operations on 23 March 1989 as part of the TEA group of airlines which provided charter flights from various European destinations. In March 1998, easyJet took a 40% stake in the airline, which began franchise services on 1 April 1999. In 2013, the airline was owned by private investors (51%) and EasyJet plc (49%) and had 770 employees.\n\nAs of October 2019, the EasyJet Switzerland fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nOver the years, the former TEA Switzerland and later EasyJet Switzerland operated the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "1925023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925023", "title": "Marking out", "text": "Marking out\n\nMarking out or layout means the process of transferring a design or pattern to a workpiece, as the first step in the manufacturing process. It is performed in many industries or hobbies although in the repetition industries the machine's initial setup is designed to remove the need to mark out every individual piece.\n\nMarking out consists of transferring the dimensions from the plan to the workpiece in preparation for the next step, machining or manufacture.\n\nTypical tools include:\n\nAs welding does not always require the use of fine tolerances, marking out is usually performed by using centre punches, hammers, tape measures and chalk.\n\nThe \"chalk\" is actually a small pre-cut block of talc (soapstone). These talc blocks can be sharpened to a stronger point than the softer blackboard chalk. The color of the chalk provides good contrast against the dark color of the hot rolled steel that is generally used.\n\nIn carpentry and joinery practice a pencil is used for marking while in cabinetmaking a marking knife provides for greater accuracy. A storey pole is used to lay out repeated measurements such as the location of joints in timber framing, courses of siding such as wood shingles and clapboards, the heights of doorjambs and the courses of bricks in masonry. Carpenters typically mark out framing members \"on-center\", the measurements are to the centers of each member.\n"}
{"id": "1925024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925024", "title": "Koto (traditional clothing)", "text": "Koto (traditional clothing)\n\nThe koto, kotomisse or kotomisi is a traditional dress from the Afro-Surinamese women or Creoles in Suriname.\n\nDifferent kotos exist for various occasions like weddings or funerals. The development of the koto as regular dress is not complete but it is still used in special occasions like the koto-dansi.\n\nWith the koto, women wear a head or body covering called an \"angisa\" or \"anisa\". The folding of the angisa sends a social message, for example “Let them talk.”\n\nFor men the traditional clothing is the pangani. \n\n"}
{"id": "1925026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925026", "title": "Samprati", "text": "Samprati\n\nSamprati () was an emperor of the Maurya dynasty. He was the son of Ashoka's blind son, Kunala, and succeeded his cousin, Dasharatha, as emperor of the Maurya Empire.\n\nKunala was the son of one of Ashoka's queens, Padmavati (who was Jain), but was blinded in a conspiracy to remove his claim to the throne. Thus, Kunala was replaced by Dasharatha as the heir to the throne. Kunala lived in Ujjain with his \"Dhai Maa\". Samprati was brought up there. Years after being denied the throne, Kunala and Samprati approached Ashoka's court in an attempt to claim the throne. Ashoka could not deliver the throne to his blind son, but promised Samprati would be heir apparent after Dasharatha. After Dasharatha's death, Samprati inherited the throne of the Maurya Empire.\n\nAccording to the Jain tradition he ruled for 53 years. The Jaina text mentions that he ruled both from Pataliputra and Ujjain. According to a Jain text, the provinces of Surashtra, Maharashtra, Andhra, and the Mysore region broke away from the empire shortly after Ashoka's death (i.e., during Dasharatha's reign), but were reconquered by Samprati, who later deployed soldiers disguised as Jain monks for wide spread of Jainism.\n\nSamprati is regarded for his patronage and efforts to spread Jainism in east India. While in one source, he is described as nominally a Jain from birth (\"Sthaviravali\" 9.53), most accounts emphasize his conversion at the hands of the Jain monk \"Suhastisuri\", the eighth leader of the congregation established by lord Mahavira Swami. After his conversion he was credited with actively spreading Jainism to many parts of India and beyond, both by making it possible for monks to travel to barbarian lands, and by building and renovating thousands of temples and establishing millions of idols. He was a disciple of Suhastisuriji.\n\nAround 1100 CE \"Devachandrasuri\" of the \"Purnatalla Gaccha\" told the story of Samprati in his commentary on the \"Textbook on Fundamental Purity (Mulashuddhi Prakarana)\", in a chapter on the virtues of building temples. A century later, \"Amradevasuri\" of the \"Brihad Gaccha\" included the story of Samprati in his commentary to the \"Treasury of Stories (Akhyana Manikosha)\". In 1204, \"Malayaprabhasuri\", a disciple of \"Manatungasuri\" of the \"Purnima Gaccha\", wrote an extensive Prakrit commentary on his teacher's \"Deeds of Jayanti (Jayanti Carita)\", in which he included the story of Samprati as an example of the virtue of compassion (Caudhari 1973: 201-2). There are also some anonymous and undated medieval texts devoted solely to the story of Samprati, such as the 461-verse Sanskrit \"Deeds of King Samprati (Samprati Nripa Charitra)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1925030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925030", "title": "Lex Titia", "text": "Lex Titia\n\nThe lex Titia was a Roman law passed on 27 November 43 BC, that legalised the Second Triumvirate of Octavian, Mark Antony, and Marcus Aemilius Lepidus for a period of five years. The triumvirate established by the law was renewed in 38 BC. Unlike the First Triumvirate, which was a private arrangement among three men, this was a legal instrument which vested the three men with dictatorial powers.\n\nThe Second Triumvirate, nominally a \"three-man commission for restoring the constitution of the republic\" (\"triumviri rei publicae constituendae\") was given the power to make or annul laws without the need for approval from the Senate or the people, insulated their judicial decisions from appeal, allowed the Triumvirs to name magistrates at will, and manage state lands. Although the three members possessed the full powers of their office, unlike the normal republican magistracies, the triumvirs could not veto one another.\n\nWhile the constitutional machinery of the republic was not dismantled by the \"lex Titia\", it never recovered, and over the next two decades, would transform into the constitution of the Roman Empire. Certainly, it can be argued that in Roman constitutional theory, the law's passage was simply an exercise of the sovereign people's legislative authority. The passing of the \"lex Titia\" marked the \"de jure\" end of the Roman Republic, though in practice it had already been repeatedly subverted by prior legislation, such as that which conferred dictatorships on past generals, such as Sulla and Julius Caesar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925032", "title": "D. Wayne Lukas", "text": "D. Wayne Lukas\n\nDarrell Wayne Lukas (born September 2, 1935 in Antigo, Wisconsin) is an American horse trainer and a U.S. Racing Hall of Fame inductee. He has won twenty Breeders' Cup races, received five Eclipse Awards for his accomplishments, and his horses have won 25 year-end Eclipse Awards. He was inducted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2007.\n\nBorn and raised on a small farm, Lukas grew up with an interest in horses. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin–Madison with a master's degree in education then taught high school where for nine years he was a head basketball coach. He began training quarter horses in California in 1968 and after 10 years of achievement that saw him train 24 world champions, he switched to training thoroughbreds. The first trainer to earn more than $100 million in purse money, he has been the year's top money winner 14 times. Lukas got his big break in 1980 when he won the Preakness Stakes on Codex. His horses have won the Kentucky Derby four times, the Preakness Stakes on six occasions, and have claimed victory four times in the Belmont Stakes, including winning all three of the Classics in 1995 with Thunder Gulch (Kentucky Derby, Belmont Stakes) and Timber Country (Preakness), making him the first trainer to sweep the Triple Crown Classic races with two different horses in a season. In 2013, he surpassed Sunny Jim Fitzsimmons for the most Triple Crown race victories, with 14.\n\nHe has won Breeder's Cup races a record 20 times. Fillies Lukas has trained have won the Kentucky Oaks four times. Three of his horses—Lady's Secret in 1986, Criminal Type in 1990 and Charismatic in 1999—won the Eclipse Award for Horse of the Year. He has a total of 25 horses that have won various Eclipse Awards. He has won the Eclipse Award for Outstanding Trainer four times. In 1999, the same year his horse Charismatic came within 2 lengths of the Triple Crown, he was inducted into the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. He was inducted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2007, becoming the first person to enter both the Thoroughbred and Quarter Horse halls of fame. In 2013 he was awarded the Eclipse Award of Merit for his accomplishments.\n\nIn 2014, at age 78, in his acceptance speech for the 2013 Eclipse Award of Merit, he stated, \"[w]hen they start giving you awards...they are trying to get you to retire. Well, you young trainers get ready because I'm not retiring. We're coming after you, so you'd better get up a little more early in the morning from now on. We're coming after you with a vengeance.\"\n\nLukas has been married four times. He had one son, Jeff (1957–2016), and two grandchildren, with his first wife. In December 1993, Lukas' derby contender Tabasco Cat seriously injured Jeff Lukas, who worked for his father as an assistant trainer and was the elder Lukas' hard-driving right-hand man. In a shedrow accident at Santa Anita Park, the colt broke loose and when Jeff Lukas tried to stop him, the horse slammed into him, throwing him into the air and when Jeff landed on the concrete, he suffered a skull fracture which left him in a coma for several weeks. He suffered permanent brain damage; he had changes in personality, vision loss, and damage to his memory. By spring of 1994, he had recovered enough that he attempted to return to horse racing, but after a series of less-demanding jobs ending in 2003, it was clear he could not work safely around racehorses. He also tried living and working near horse farms, but his disabilities were too severe for him to be safe around horses at all. He ultimately moved to Atoka, Oklahoma, in 2007 to work for David Burrage, who had been the accountant and general manager for Lukas Racing Stables. By that time, Burrage was a banker and owned the First Bank in Atoka, which employed Lukas. His father bought him a home there and Jeff lived a quiet life until his death at age 58 in March 2016.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925036", "title": "Bagler", "text": "Bagler\n\nThe Bagli Party or Bagler (Old Norse: \"Baglarr\", Norwegian Bokmål: \"Bagler\", Norwegian Nynorsk: \"Baglar\") was a faction or party during the Norwegian Civil Wars. The Bagler faction was made up principally of the Norwegian aristocracy, clergy and merchants.\nIt was formed in Skåne, then part of Denmark, in 1196 principally by Bishop Nicholas Arnesson of Oslo and Archbishop Erik Ivarsson (ca. 1130–1213) of Nidaros around the pretender Inge Magnusson (nicknamed the Baglar-King) to depose King Sverre Sigurdsson. It contested with the Birkebeiners, essentially a faction of peasants, led by the pretender King Sverre, for control in a Norwegian civil war during the late 12th century. Sverris saga provided Sverre a royal lineage as putative bastard son of the late king Sigurd II of Norway, which in the Norway of the time provided him a claim to the throne. Historians generally agree with the consensus of his time that he was a pretender/ impostor.\n\nThe civil wars period of Norwegian history lasted from 1130 to 1217. During this period there were several interlocked conflicts of varying scale and intensity. The background for these conflicts were the unclear Norwegian succession laws, social conditions and the struggle between church and king. There were then two main parties, firstly known by varying names or no names at all, but finally condensed into parties of Bagler and Birkebeiner. The rallying point regularly was a royal son, who was set up as the head figure of the party in question, to oppose the rule of the king from the contesting party.\n\nFrom a socio-historical perspective, Bagler can be interpreted as conservatives against the results of developments such as the rapid increase in landless border men (\"markamenn\"), who settled along the Swedish border and made their living by pillaging the rich old settlements. That lawless population became the foremost basis of the Birkebeiner. Bagler also favoured the church and its privileges and possessions.\n\nViken and Vestlandet, where social distinctions were growing deeper, were gaining more power at the expense of Trøndelag, a region where the social tensions were not as marked. The wealthier classes, particularly in Viken, were the basis of the Bagler party. The powerful old Trønder families were simply being left behind by their peers in the south, who had acquired a strong leader in the Vestland earl Erling Skakke in the mid-12th century. The antecedents of the Bagli party had been supporting the rule of King Inge I of Norway and after him, King Magnus V of Norway (killed 1184) and the latter's father and regent, earl Erling Skakke (killed 1179).\n\nThe Birkebein faction had been formed in 1174 to depose Magnus and Erling. The Birkebeiner continued earl Erling's centralization which underscores the geographical motivations behind the conflicting parties. The Birkebein policy during Sverre did not seek a social revolution, only to move the centre of power back to Trøndelag.\nAround the year 1200, these rival groups shared the identical but opposite goal of controlling the entire country. King Sverre managed to acquire control of much of Norway, but in Hedmark and Østerdal, the Baglers remained powerful. Upon Sverre's death in 1202, the Bagler power increased. Sverre's successor, King Haakon III of Norway, died after a two-year reign in 1204, leaving his posthumous son Haakon Haakonsson in Hamar, which was under Bagler control. In 1206, a group of the Birkebeiners set off on a dangerous voyage through treacherous mountains and forests, taking the now two-year-old Haakon Haakonsson to safety in Trondheim. Norwegian history credits the Birkebeiners' bravery with preserving the life of the boy who later became King Haakon IV of Norway.\n\nThe Birkebeins managed to hold some power, despite short reigns of their monarchs after Sverre. In 1209, a pact was made between Bagler and Birkebeiner, which recognized Bagler pretender Philip Simonsson as ruler of Oppland and Viken in Eastern Norway, without the title of king, and recognized Birkebeiner's Inge Bårdsson as King Inge II of Norway. They both died in 1217 and Birkebeiner-born Haakon IV ascended the throne, relatively unopposed, under the regency of Duke Skule Baardsson. Later in 1240, Haakon IV ended the civil wars and weakened the role of the aristocracy in Norway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925039", "title": "Toggenburg", "text": "Toggenburg\n\nToggenburg is a region of Switzerland. It corresponds to the upper valley of the river Thur and that of its main tributary, the Necker. Since 1 January 2003, Toggenburg has been a constituency (\"Wahlkreis\") of the canton of St. Gallen (SFOS number 1727).\n\nThe valley descends in a northwestern direction from the watershed between the Rhine and the Thur, and is enclosed on the northeast by the chain of the Säntis () and on the southwest by that of the Churfirsten () and of the Speer (). It is a fertile valley of about in length from the source of the river to Wil on the railway line between Winterthur and St. Gallen. The upper half is traversed by an excellent road, while from Nesslau there is a railway to Wil ().\n\nAt Wildhaus, the highest village (), the house wherein Huldrych Zwingli, the Swiss Reformer, was born in 1484, is still shown. Other villages are Lichtensteig, Kirchberg and Wattwil.\n\nThere are traces of the paleolithic Mousterian Industry throughout the Appenzell Alps, in the Toggenburg notably in Wildenmannlisloch cave.\n\nThe upper Thur valley was part of the province of Raetia in the Roman era, and was reached by Alemannic-speaking settlers only in the early medieval period. This is evidenced by a substantial substrate of Romance toponyms in the upper Toggenburg (upstream of Stein).\n\nThe name of the region is derived from that of the House of Toggenburg (named for their castle near Kirchberg) who ruled over parts of the Toggenburg region since the 12th century, in the 13th century taking the title of counts (\"comes\") and extending their domain to include all of the upper Thur valley.\nThe extinction of the main line of the counts of Toggenburg (1436) led to the Old Zürich War (1440–46) ultimately resulting in the temporary expulsion of Zürich from the Swiss confederacy. Eventually, the Toggenburg passed to the lord of Raron (in Valais), who sold it to the abbot of St. Gall in 1468.\n\nPart of the Toggenburg followed the Swiss Reformation led by Zwingli, and the valley declared itself independent in 1530, but was forced to re-submit to the Abbot of St. Gall in 1538. The Abbot was, however, pressured into toleration of either confession, so that the Toggenburg became one of the few regions of Switzerland where Catholicism and Protestantism have a tradition of co-existence.\n\nIn 1707, the Toggenburg again declared its independence of St. Gall, in reaction to the Abbey's plans to build a road across the Ricken Pass, which was seen as a strategic arrangement towards a Catholic military alliance. The ensuing Toggenburg war of 1712 resulted in a balance of power between Catholic and Protestant cantons, ultimately leading to the formation of Switzerland as a federal state.\n\nIn the Helvetic Republic, the Toggenburg was divided between the cantons of Säntis and Linth. The parts were re-united as part of the canton of St. Gallen in 1803.\n\nSchüblig, a type of sausage is a tradition in the area.\n\nThe Toggenburg \"Wahlkreis\" has a population of (as of ). Of the foreign population, (), 584 are from Germany, 952 are from Italy, 3,124 are from ex-Yugoslavia, 167 are from Austria, 1,137 are from Turkey, and 1,123 are from another country. Of the Swiss national languages (), 41,718 speak German, 107 people speak French, 673 people speak Italian, and 47 people speak Romansh.\n\nThe age distribution, , is; 6,296 children or 13.7% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 7,444 teenagers or 16.2% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 5,046 people or 11.0% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 6,784 people or 14.8% are between 30 and 39, 6,390 people or 13.9% are between 40 and 49, and 4,926 people or 10.7% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 3,773 people or 8.2% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 3,269 people or 7.1% are between 70 and 79, there are 1,652 people or 3.6% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 326 people or 0.7% who are between 90 and 99, and 1 person who is 100 or more.\n\nOut of the total population in the region, , the highest education level completed by 11,393 people (24.8% of the population) was Primary, while 15,123 (32.9%) have completed Secondary, 3,627 (7.9%) have attended a Tertiary school, and 2,291 (5.0%) are not in school. The remainder did not answer this question.\n\nFrom the , 21,238 or 46.3% are Roman Catholic, while 15,930 or 34.7% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there are 29 individuals (or about 0.06% of the population) who belong to the Christian Catholic faith, there are 939 individuals (or about 2.05% of the population) who belong to the Orthodox Church, and there are 1,033 individuals (or about 2.25% of the population) who belong to another Christian church. There are 11 individuals (or about 0.02% of the population) who are Jewish, and 2,889 (or about 6.29% of the population) who are Islamic. There are 245 individuals (or about 0.53% of the population) who belong to another church (not listed on the census), 2,183 (or about 4.76% of the population) belong to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 1,410 individuals (or about 3.07% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nSince 1 January 2013, the Toggenburg district has consisted of twelve municipalities:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925041", "title": "Toggenburg goat", "text": "Toggenburg goat\n\nThe Toggenburg or Toggenburger is a Swiss breed of dairy goat. Its name derives from that of the Toggenburg region of the Canton of St. Gallen, where it is thought to have originated. It is among the most productive breeds of dairy goat and is distributed world-wide, in at least fifty countries in all continents.\n\nThe Toggenburg is the traditional goat breed of the Toggenburg and Werdenberg regions of the Canton of St. Gallen in eastern Switzerland. The herd-book was started in 1890. At first, the goats were often dark-coated, sometimes with white markings; there may have been some cross-breeding with Appenzell and Chamois-coloured stock in neighbouring areas. The typical mouse-grey colour with white facial markings was fixed by selective breeding in the twentieth century.\n\nThere were 850 goats in the Toggenburg and the Werdenberg region of 3000 in Switzerland, which is down from 20,000 in the 1950s. The club St. Gallen Goat Breeders Association, that was founded in 1901, registers the breed. The Verein Ziegenfreunde was formed to protect the breed and unite breed owners.\n\nBritish Toggenburgs are heavier and have improved milk quality. By the middle of 2002, 4146 Toggenburgs had been registered with the New Zealand Dairy Goat Breeders Association.\n\nThe Toggenburg is of medium size. Coat colour ranges from light brown to mouse grey, with white Swiss markings to the face, lower legs and tail area. Tassels may be present; billies and nannies may be naturally horned or polled (hornless).\n\nThe Toggenburg is a highly productive dairy breed. The breed standard calls for minimum milk yield of per lactation, with a minimum fat content of and minimum protein content of .\n"}
{"id": "1925042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925042", "title": "Shalishuka", "text": "Shalishuka\n\nShalishuka () Maurya was a ruler of the Indian Maurya dynasty. He ruled from 215–202 BCE. He was the successor of Sunil Maurya. While the Yuga Purana section of the Gargi Samhita mentions him as a quarrelsome, unrighteous ruler, he is also noted as being of \"righteous words\" but \"unrighteous conduct\" due to his patronage of Jainism. \n\nAccording to the Puranas he was succeeded by Devavarman.\n"}
{"id": "1925043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925043", "title": "Westfield College", "text": "Westfield College\n\nWestfield College was a small college situated in Kidderpore Avenue, Hampstead, London, and was a constituent college of the University of London from 1882 to 1989. The college originally admitted only women as students and became coeducational in 1964. In 1989, Westfield College merged with Queen Mary College. The merged institution was named Queen Mary and Westfield College until 2013, when the name was legally changed to Queen Mary University of London.\n\nThe college was founded in 1882 by Constance Louise Maynard (1849–1935) and Ann Dudin Brown. Dudin Brown had intended to found a missionary school but she had been persuaded otherwise by Maynard and Mary Petrie. They worked with the Metcalfe sisters. Dudin Brown was the founding benefactress and council member from 1882 to 1917. Until the mid-1980s residences were still segregated.\n\nIn the mid-to-late 1980s, the University of London underwent considerable reorganisation, and many smaller colleges were merged. Consequently, Westfield was merged with Queen Mary College in 1989, forming Queen Mary and Westfield College. Most student accommodation, administrative offices and several academic departments continued to be based at the Hampstead campus until 1992, however, and the College retained its separate identity. The new, combined, College was finally located at Queen Mary's site in Mile End, East London from 1992 onwards. However, some departments moved to King's College London and many academic staff moved to other colleges, such as Royal Holloway College.\n\nA history of the college called \"Castle Adamant in Hampstead\" was published in 1983.\n\n\nKing's College London took over the former Westfield site, which has been divided up over the years. The majority of the south side of the site (The Queen's Building and other teaching blocks) was demolished in the early 1990s to make way for The Westfield Apartments, a block of luxury private flats. The remainder of the south side (the Caroline Skeel Library, Ellison, Temple, Chesney and Stocks buildings) was used by King's College as student accommodation and as an archive. The north side of the site (Queen Mother Hall, Bay House, Old House, Maynard, Lady Chapman, Orchard I and II, Dudin-Brown and Skeel buildings) remains in use as student accommodation, with Orchard I and II renamed for Lord Cameron and Rosalind Franklin, respectively. Until 2005, the Old House was home to the London Jewish Cultural Centre.\n\nThe Westfield College name was lost following the 2013 change of the merged institution's legal name to Queen Mary University of London. The new college's student accommodation complex (opened in 2004) is named the \"Westfield Student Village\" as a reminder of the history of Westfield College. Moreover, the Westfield Trust Prize, an academic cash prize given to outstanding undergraduate or postgraduates studying at Queen Mary, has been established in memory of the college.\n\nOne of the University buildings, the non-denominational chapel built in 1929, was sold and became part of the Hampstead Manor development with its 156 homes of various types and sizes. Because it had deteriorated, the building was taken apart, re-built with modifications and renovated by the new owners. The Chapel was on the market in early 2020 for £7.5 million. The Skeel Library, a Grade II listed property built in 1903-1904, also became part of the Hampstead Manor, and was also converted into a four bedroom family home.\n\n"}
{"id": "1925046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925046", "title": "WHUS", "text": "WHUS\n\nWHUS is a non-commercial educational FM college radio station. It transmits with 4,400 watts on 91.7 MHz from the University of Connecticut (UConn) in Storrs to audiences in Connecticut, southern Massachusetts and western Rhode Island. WHUS operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year as a community radio station that features members of the student body and the local community.\n\nWHUS radio also streams 24/7 online and is available on the WHUS Radio smartphone app. \n\nWHUS broadcasts over 100 shows featuring a diverse mix of music, from polka to hip-hop. In 2014 WHUS added a second online streaming station, WHUS-2, to accommodate additional DJs. From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on weekdays WHUS airs public affairs and talk programs. It also provides commercial-free coverage of ten sports at UConn. \n\nWHUS has four departments: Music, News, Sports and Talk. The News department has about 15 members and focuses on local news stories, particularly the UConn community. The news team is responsible for finding stories, interviewing, writing and audio production. WHUS Sports travels across the country, providing play-by-play updates, covering UConn men's and women's basketball and football. They also cover men's and women's soccer, hockey and baseball. In addition to their on-air productions, WHUS hosts multiple concerts at UConn each semester, exposing the community to unique bands and artists. \n\nIn 2014 WHUS opened a multimedia production studio for video and audio recording and mixing. This resulted in the creation of the WHUS Promotions, Training, Online and Tech/IT Departments.\n\nThe WHUS Promotions department has two areas of concentration: the marketing and events departments. The marketing department and street team focus on advertising, branding and marketing. The Events department plans and orchestrates the concerts and speakers held throughout the semester. They also help connect WHUS DJs with other organizations for events on campus. The Training department works with the other departments, training in broadcast, media production and management. The Online department produces online content reflective of WHUS' broadcast and non-broadcast activities. Tech/IT educates students on server maintenance, computer support and the functioning of broadcast equipment.\n\nWHUS's debut as a non-commercial FM station occurred in 1957. However, organized radio broadcasting at the University of Connecticut began in the early 1920s.\n\nOn June 1, 1923 the university, then called Connecticut Agricultural College, was issued a license for a new AM station in Storrs, with sequentially assigned call letters of WABL. The station initially operated on 1060 kHz with 100-watts from an on-campus antenna supported by two steel towers. In 1925 power was increased to 500 watts and the call letters changed to WCAC.\n\nOn April 30, 1936 WCAC's license was voluntarily surrendered for cancellation, due to frustrations over restricted operating hours and constant frequency and power changes mandated by the Federal Radio Commission (FRC) and its 1934 successor the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), that made it impossible for the college to achieve its goal of developing a state-wide educational service.\n\nAround the time that WCAC went off the air, students at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island were developing a campus-wide broadcast service called \"The Brown Network\". This employed \"carrier current\" transmissions, using multiple very low power AM band radio transmitters that fed their signals into building electrical wires, for reception by any standard radios that were close by. Because of their extremely limited coverage, the FCC did not require carrier current stations to be licensed. Station installations soon spread to other college campuses, especially in the northeastern United States. Representatives from the University of Connecticut traveled to Brown to investigate the idea, and decided to establish a station at Storrs. In February 1940 the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System (IBS) was formed to coordinate activities between twelve college carrier current stations and to solicit advertisers interested in sponsoring programs geared toward their student audiences, with the University of Connecticut as one of the charter members.\n\nThe University of Connecticut station initially identified itself as both the \"Husky Network\" and \"UCBS\", which stood for the \"University of Connecticut Broadcasting System\". It began broadcasting on April 8, 1940, using student-built equipment installed by a group headed by LaVerge Williams. The station was initially funded by the Student Senate, but in the fall of 1941 became financially independent by selling airtime to advertisers. A May 1943 review of the \"Husky Network\" stated that the station was operating from 7:00-8:30 a.m. and 5:00-11:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, for a total of 37½ hours per week. However, equipment shortages due to the outbreak of World War II, as well as staff entering the military, caused the station to cease operations until after the war.\n\nOperations were reactivated in May 1946, under the guidance of Dan Harris, operating on 560 kHz from 4-10 p.m. A 1948 review stated that transmitters were operating on both 560 and 640 kHz, with advertisers that included local grocery, drug, and stationary stores as well as restaurants. The station now identified itself as \"WHUS\", although because it did not need a license these call letters were not formally assigned by the FCC. The studios were moved from the basement of Koons Hall to the new Student Union Building in 1952. Between 1954 and 1956, there was another hiatus in broadcasting owing to technical difficulties in complying with FCC restrictions on signal strength. Eventually low power AM broadcasting was resumed at 670 kHz.\n\nAM programming was predominant through the late 1960s, although during periods when the AM and FM stations were carrying the same program, provisions had to be made to avoid airing commercials on the FM side, which was only licensed for non-commercial operation. In 1963 twenty-four-hour-a-day broadcasting was started on WHUS (AM) with the use of automatic reverse tape reels that provided 6 hours of programming. However, by the mid-1970s the closed-carrier AM broadcasting system had fallen into disrepair and was discontinued.\n\nIn 1957 the university received a license for a 10-watt non-commercial FM station operating on 90.5 MHz, which was now formally issued the WHUS call letters by the FCC. This new authorization meant that station coverage was no longer limited to just the campus. WHUS moved to 91.7 MHz in 1966, increased power to 1,250 watts in 1968, then to 3,200 watts in 1974.\n\nIn the mid-1970s student managers decided to operate the station 24 hours a day year round, adding non-student volunteers to staff and produce programs. WHUS became a \"community\" station. Beginning about 1975, a major refurbishment of the studios upgraded the mostly mono vintage equipment so that in 1977 FM-stereo broadcasting could begin. \n\nIn 1997, WHUS built a new tower that allowed its signal to reach a radius. This expansion into the Hartford area helped grow its audience. During the summer of 1998, WHUS began webcasting its air signal over the Internet. The station moved to an old farmhouse on the North Campus in 2002 for the remodeling of the Student Union. In 2006 the station's website, WHUS.org, acquired a new design and a schedule database system, which allowed dynamic displays of currently playing and upcoming shows. In 2007, the station moved into new state-of-the-art studios in the remodeled Student Union.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2013, WHUS was voted \"Best College Radio\" by the readers of the Hartford Advocate each year except 2006, when it received a second place award. In December 2009, WHUS was recognized as a finalist in the University of Connecticut's Provost's Award for Excellence in Community Engagement. \n\nAt the 2014 Intercollegiate Broadcast System Awards in NYC, WHUS Studio Sessions won \"Best Live Performance\" and \"Most Creative Program.\" WHUS was also a finalist in the \"Best Use of Social Media,\" \"Best Sports Broadcast,\" and \"Best Radio Drama\" categories that year.\n\nIn 2015, WHUS won \"Best News Delivery\" and \"Best Facebook Page\" at the College Media Association Apple Awards. \n\n"}
{"id": "1925047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925047", "title": "Devavarman", "text": "Devavarman\n\nDevavarman (or Devadharman) was a king of the Maurya Empire. He ruled in the period 202–195 BC. According to the Puranas, he was the successor of Shalishuka Maurya and reigned for seven years. He was succeeded by Shatadhanvan.\n"}
{"id": "1925048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925048", "title": "Everything Is Illuminated (film)", "text": "Everything Is Illuminated (film)\n\nEverything Is Illuminated is a 2005 biographical comedy-drama film, written and directed by Liev Schreiber and starring Elijah Wood and Eugene Hütz. It was adapted from the novel of the same name by Jonathan Safran Foer, and was the debut film of Liev Schreiber both as a director and as a screenwriter.\n\nJonathan Safran Foer (Elijah Wood), a young American Jew, goes on a quest to find the woman, Augustina, who saved his grandfather, Safran Foer, during the Holocaust in a small Ukrainian town called Trachimbrod that was wiped off the map when the Nazis liquidated Eastern European shtetls. His guides are a cranky, antisemitic grandfather (Boris Leskin), his deranged Border Collie named Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., and his over-enthusiastic grandson, Alex (Eugene Hütz), whose fractured command of English, passion for American pop culture, and constant chatter threaten to make the worst of every situation. The guides are not very knowledgeable about the subject of finding Jews, and usually just attempt to scam them by taking them on long journeys, but after hearing about Jonathan's compelling story, they decide they actually want to help him. After traveling through much of rural Ukraine, they eventually find Augustina's sister, Lista (Laryssa Lauret), who leads them to where Augustina was killed by Nazi soldiers after her father refused to spit on the Torah. Alex's grandfather kills himself after it was revealed he was Jewish and managed to survive the war himself by hiding his religion. Jonathan returns home after saying farewell to Alex, to whom he has grown close. Both Jonathan and Alex sprinkle soil gathered from the site of the massacre on their respective grandfathers' graves. Alex's grandfather is given a Jewish burial.\n\nThe score for \"Everything Is Illuminated\" features eight original tracks composed by Paul Cantelon, along with songs by Russian ska punk band Leningrad, Arkady Severny, Csókolom, Tin Hat Trio, and Gogol Bordello, whose lead singer Eugene Hütz plays Alex. The band members of Gogol Bordello play the band in the train station where the character Alex has come to meet his US client, Jonathan Foer. DeVotchKa's single \"How It Ends\" is featured in the trailer, but not in the official soundtrack.\n\n\"American Chronicle\" counted the film among the \"rare films that encapsulate the emotion of discovery and drama with humor\", while \"Time Out New York\" called it Liev Schreiber's \"unbelievably assured debut as a director\". Roger Ebert praised the film, assigning it 3 and a half stars out of 4, and suggested that one might well see it a second time (as he did) \"to understand the journey it takes\".\n\nThe film lost money at the box office, as the gross receipts never surpassed even the small budget of the production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925050", "title": "Edelweiss Air", "text": "Edelweiss Air\n\nEdelweiss Air is a Swiss leisure airline sister company of Swiss International Air Lines. It operates flights to European and intercontinental destinations from its base at Zurich Airport.\n\nThe airline was founded on 19 October 1995 in Bassersdorf, Switzerland, with just one aircraft, a McDonnell Douglas MD-83. The company's name is derived from the Swiss unofficial national flower, the Edelweiss, which is also painted on its aircraft.\n\nThe fleet was subsequently expanded and renewed. In 1998, new Airbus A320-200s were introduced to replace the MD-83s, and in 1999 long-haul flights were commenced using the Airbus A330-200.\n\nFor seven consecutive years between 2001 and 2008, Edelweiss Air received the golden \"Travelstar Award\" for its excellent achievements.\n\nUntil November 2008, Edelweiss Air was wholly owned by Kuoni Travel Ltd and had 190 employees, when the operating rights were sold to Swiss International Air Lines, in exchange for sale rights of hotel capacities via the Swiss sales network. Following Swiss International Airlines being acquired by the German Lufthansa Group in 2005, Edelweiss Air also became a subsidiary of Europe's largest airline group at the same time it was acquired by Swiss.\n\nAs of March 2011, Edelweiss Air added the larger Airbus A330-300 to its fleet, with an order having been placed on 5 April 2010. In July 2015, it was announced that Edelweiss would receive four Airbus A340-300s between 2017 and 2018 previously operated by its parent Swiss International Air Lines. The aircraft was used to expand the route network.\n\nIn November 2015, Edelweiss introduced a revised livery on one of its Airbus A320-200s which will be applied on their entire fleet. In December 2016, Edelweiss Air phased out their sole Airbus A330-200, which has been handed over to Brussels Airlines and was replaced by Airbus A340-300s inherited from parent Swiss.\n\nAs of August 2019, the Edelweiss Air fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "1925053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925053", "title": "Abbeylara", "text": "Abbeylara\n\nAbbeylara () is a village in the easternmost portion of County Longford, Ireland, located about three kilometers east of Granard on the R396 regional road. Its name is derived from a monastery, the great Abbey of Lerha, founded in 1205 by Hiberno-Norman magnate, Risteárd de Tiúit, for Cistercian monks. The monastery was dissolved in 1539, although its ruins are still apparent on approach to the village. An ancient earthwork, the Duncla (Irish \"Dún-chlaí\" meaning \"fortified ditch\") or Black Pig's Dyke, which runs south-eastwards from Lough Gowna to Lough Kinale, goes through the larger parish of Abbeylara, and passes about one kilometre north of the village.\n\nBecause of its proximity to Lough Kinale and Lough Derragh, with a plentiful supply of trout, tench, bream and pike, Abbeylara attracts anglers and local angling clubs hold regular competitions.\n\nAbbeylara GFC are the local Gaelic football club.\n\nOn 20 April 2000, the Gardaí (police) shot dead local man John Carthy in a siege at his home.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925055", "title": "Shatadhanvan", "text": "Shatadhanvan\n\nShatadhanvan () or Shatadhanus was a king of the Maurya dynasty. He ruled from 195–187 BC. According to the Puranas, he was the successor of Devavarman Maurya and reigned for eight years. He was succeeded by Brihadratha Maurya.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1925064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925064", "title": "Carlos Martínez de Irujo, 1st Marquess of Casa Irujo", "text": "Carlos Martínez de Irujo, 1st Marquess of Casa Irujo\n\nCarlos Martínez de Irujo y Tacón, 1st Marquess of Casa Irujo (Cartagena 1763 – Madrid 1824), was a Spanish Prime Minister and diplomat, Knight of the Order of Carlos III and public official.\n\nHis father was Manuel Martinez de Irujo y and his mother Narcisa Tacón y Gamiz (born Beriain, Navarre, 1740). He had two siblings, Narcisa Martínez de Irujo y Tacón and María Rafaela Martínez de Irujo y Tacón.\n\nCasa Irujo (often spelled Yrujo) was the Spanish minister to the United States from 1796 to 1807. Casa Irujo changed positions and became minister at Rio de Janeiro and then Paris.\n\nHe was Secretary of state (Prime Minister) of Spain (\"ministro de estado\") three times, first in 1812, then in an interim capacity from 1818 to 1819, and finally for a few weeks from December 1823 until his death in January 1824.\n\nIn 1794 while an attaché at the Spanish embassy in London he had an illegitimate daughter named Lavinia de Irujo. Lavinia herself later gave birth to two daughters Fredericka and Frances out of wedlock, the father being Major Charles Jones (father of Ernest Jones, a poet, dramatist and novelist.) There are several drawings of Lavinia by the artist Henry Fuseli (1741-1825).\n\nIn 1798 Don Carlos married Sarah McKean, the daughter of Pennsylvania governor Thomas McKean. The couple have been described as \" intriguers of the highest order.\" Their son Carlos Martínez de Irujo y McKean (1802-1855), Duque of Sotomayor, became prime minister of Spain for a short period in 1847.\n\n\"He was an obstinate, impetuous and rather vain little person with reddish hair; enormously wealthy, endlessly touchy, extremely intelligent and vastly attractive … he liked America, he understood it and enjoyed it; he was tremendously popular at Philadelphia, and at Washington when he condescended to appear there; he was on intimate terms at the President's House. If he lost his temper from time to time, and thought nothing of haranguing the country through the newspapers, he served his King with energetic loyalty; he went about his business with dignity and shrewdness; he never forgot the respect due to his official person, however much he might indulge his democratic tendencies in private intercourse; he was the only Minister of the first rank in America, and consequently the\nleading figure in the diplomatic corps; he contributed to American society the brilliant qualities of his elegant and felicitous personality; he was a very great gentleman.\"\n\n— from \"Aaron Burr\", Samuel H. Wandell, Meade Minnigerode, 1925.\n\nYrujo was doubly and trebly attached to the Administration. Proud as a typical Spaniard should be, and mingling and infusion of vanity with his pride; irascible, headstrong, indiscreet as was possible for a diplomatist, and afraid of no prince or president; young, able, quick, and aggressive; devoted to his King and country; a flighty and dangerous friend, but a most troublesome enemy; always in difficulties, but in spite of fantastic outbursts always respectable,—Yrujo needed only the contrast of characters such as those of Pickering or Madison to make him the most entertaining figure in Washington politics. He loved the rough-and-tumble of democratic habits, and remembered his diplomatic dignity only when he could use it as a weapon against a secretary of state. If he thought the Government to need assistance or warning, he wrote communications to the newspapers in a style which long experience had made familiar to the public and irritating to the Government whose acts he criticized.\n\n"}
{"id": "1925069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925069", "title": "Rajiv Gandhi Foundation", "text": "Rajiv Gandhi Foundation\n\nThe Rajiv Gandhi Foundation was established on 21 June 1991. The foundation works on a range of issues including literacy, health, disability, empowerment of the underprivileged, livelihoods and natural resource management. Its current focus areas are Education, Disability and Natural resource management. All donations to the Foundation are tax deductible to the extent of 50 percent under section 80G of the Income Tax Act.\n\nGujarat was recognised the state with the most economic freedom by the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation. The foundation is headed by Sonia Gandhi, who is the leader of the Indian National Congress Party. \n\nThe Rajiv Gandhi Foundation was set up to carry forward the legacy of former Prime Minister of India Rajiv Gandhi. The Jawahar Bhawan Trust met in July, 1991 and passed a resolution inviting the Foundation to work out of Jawahar Bhawan. \nThe Foundation constituted a group of 8 founding Trustees. They were Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Amitabh Bachchan, Suman Dubey, N.K.Seshan and Sunil Nehru. In 1992, P. V. Narasimha Rao, Shankarrao Chavan, P. Chidambaram, V. Krishnamurthy, Sam Pitroda, Dr. Sekhar Raha, Mani Shankar Aiyar, Montek Singh Ahluwalia and R. P. Goenka were also inducted as Trustees.\n\nIn August 1991, the Foundation setup Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Contemporary Studies (RGICS) to provide research based ideas, analysis, policy and practical programmes into contemporary issues. RGICS programmes cover economic reform, science and technology, social issues, public affairs and international relations. The Institute organises conferences, lectures, workshops, short studies and projects and invites experts to lend their insight into the contemporary issues. It also encourages research scholars, scientists, economists and social scientists to undertake projects which can provide inputs towards policy framing and decision making. Some of the speakers include Robert McNamara, Nelson Mandela, Hillary Clinton, John Kenneth Galbraith, Margaret Thatcher and Edward Said.\n\n\n\nThe Foundation enables physically challenged young people to access better opportunities by awarding motorised vehicles. It was initiated with the support of corporate bodies and concerned individuals in 1992 and has helped over 2400 individuals access higher education and attain financial independence. On 22 August 2015 Rahul Gandhi awarded vehicles to 100 individuals from 20 states.\n\nThe Interact scholarship program supports children affected by conflict across the country. After 2005, it included another 160 children affected by the tsunami in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Puducherry. As of 2016, the Foundation supports 2086 children across Andhra Pradesh, Manipur, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Nagaland, Jammu & Kashmir, Gujarat, Puducherry and the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. In addition to scholarships, on-going psycho-social support, orientation in and exposure to, various professions, placements, academic support, and internships are also provided.\n\nThe Rajiv Gandhi Foundation has been working on issues of livelihoods and Natural Resource Management since 2001. This programme was implemented in backward villages in Jaipur, Pali and Karoli districts of Rajasthan which faced serious environmental degradation. A third party evaluation revealed the significant impact in the lives of the targeted families. In order to scale up this transformative work, RGF set up Gram Gaurav on 19 December 2011. Gram Gaurav currently works in 74 villages located in Dang region of Karauli and Dholpur districts to augment water resources, conserve soil and enhance agriculture production.\n\nThe Foundation, in collaboration with Cambridge Commonwealth Trust offers two scholarships for Indian students to pursue master's degree at the University of Cambridge. The selection process follows well defined criteria, including experience, education and leadership potential.\n\nSince 1993, the Foundation has set up 1648 libraries in villages and slums across 22 states in India. In 2013, RGF partnered with Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and worked with the public libraries in Barabanki and Rai Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh.\n\nThe Foundation has been working with ten partners across the country to introduce a capability based learning approach for children. This initiative has focused on redefining the assessment frameworks and learning approach and focusing on continuous comprehensive evaluation. A cluster approach has been adopted in selecting schools (covering 15-20 schools in a cluster) and works on capacity building of teachers.\n"}
{"id": "1925071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925071", "title": "Robert E. Lee High School", "text": "Robert E. Lee High School\n\nRobert E. Lee High School may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925077", "title": "Next (2005 TV series)", "text": "Next (2005 TV series)\n\nNext is a dating game show produced by Kallissa Miller with her production company Kallissa Productions, which ran on MTV from 2005 to 2008.\n\n\"Next\" dealt with a contestant going on blind dates with possibly up to five other single people, known as \"the daters\", who were secluded on a RV, referred to as the \"Next Bus\". The added twist was that the date could end at any time by the contestant shouting \"next\".\n\nEach episode featured two segments, featuring a single man or woman as the prime contestant, and five other single men or women as the daters. The segment began with the prime contestant describing themselves to the audience. They would usually explain a hobby that they enjoy and what they like and dislike in a person, often chiding that they would \"next\" a person if they had this attribute.\n\nThen, the five daters described themselves to the audience.\n\nThe five daters were secluded in the \"Next Bus\" (which was always in a very short walking distance from the date location), and the contestant was at a location where the date will be held. (Most typically in an outdoor urban setting, which generally throughout the segment took place in that area alone, but in some cases date locations were at multiple diverse locations sometimes.) In a preselected fashion, the five daters were put into an order to go on a date with the contestant.\n\nWhen a dater leaves the bus for their date, as they are exiting out of the RV door, the screen pauses momentarily and personal facts are captioned on the screen. The dater then exits and introduces themselves to the contestant. The date begins at this exact moment, and a timer is shown at the bottom of the screen, (which captures the length of the date). The date usually varied, but most of the time, it consisted of a challenge or an activity that the contestant asked the dater to participate in. However, it wasn't uncommon for a date to feature the two people conversing or eating a meal as well or in addition to that.\n\nUnlike most dating shows to where usually a contestant goes on a date with someone then afterwards decides what happens after, the contestant in Next is in full control to how long, or even if a dater is on the date.\n\nA date is concluded only by two methods. Either a dater is \"nexted\" by the contestant, (in which if this person were one of the first four of the five daters, the segment continues and another dater would then immediately leave the RV to date the contestant; if not, the segment would immediately be over;) or the dater is offered a proposition from the contestant to go on another date/continue relations outside the program, or to essentially \"next\" themselves and reject the contestant. (This can only be done once, and once only to one dater, and the segment is over shortly after this.)\n\nIn the sense of a date ending from being \"nexted\":\n\nIf at any time (which could be within seconds or even hours) during the date in which the contestant feels that the dater isn't a match, (which a contestant can next a dater for warranted or unwarranted reasons; usually it's whether it is from lack of attraction, a bad first impression, a problem that happens during the date, not participating in a task or activity, or learning more about the daters personal life as the date goes along) he or she would be rejected for the rest of the program by the contestant and exclaim \"next,\" and the date would immediately end. (If the contestant was riding in a vehicle which would caravan the secluded daters on the RV to a date location, the vehicle will immediately pull over, and the dater would get out of the vehicle and get on the RV which would be in front of or behind the vehicle.)\n\nWhen the date ends, the timer immediately stops and morphs into a dollar amount. The daters on the RV who were \"nexted\", will receive $1 for every minute the date lasted (indicated from the timer on the bottom of the screen). If a dater was \"nexted\" before one minute, they received one dollar.\n\nThe dater would be sent back to the RV. Once back in the RV, the dater would usually say either a positive or negative thing about the person to give the remaining daters an idea about the contestant.\n\nOn select occasions, a dater for apparent or for no apparent reasons would ask to end the date and/or hint for themselves to be \"nexted\", despite the fact the contestant did not want to. So in essence, the contestant who by the rules of the show is the only person allowed to end a date, this is a way for a dater to circumvent, and end the date themselves. This in turn would most likely have the contestant \"next\" the person due to this.\n\nIn the sense of a date ending from a dater being propositioned from a contestant for a second date:\n\nDuring the date, if a contestant felt that they had an extreme connection/chemistry to an RV dater, the timer would stop and be morphed into a dollar amount (which would correlate to a dollar for every minute the date lasted. If the date was less than a minute, it would be one dollar) and the date would officially end, but not with the dater being \"nexted\".\n\nThe contestant would then say, \"You have been on a date with me for (\"X\" number of minutes). You can either take the (\"X\"amount of money) and run, or go on a second date.\"\n\nThe screen would then pause on the dater and a review of their date would play, including flashbacks of positive and negative aspects of the date. Also, comments from daters on the RV about the contestant would air. At this point, the dater would opt to either take the money (similar to as if they were \"nexted\"), or forfeit that money and go on a second date with contestant.\n\nThe tables would then essentially turn, and a dater would have the chance to either reject a contestant, or exchange the same feelings the contestant had.\n\nIf the dater decides to reject the contestant for any reason, they take the money they earned from the date, and he or she will go back to the RV just as if they were \"nexted\" and tell the daters what happened. The contestant would then be left alone by themselves. On the other hand, if the dater chose to go on a second date, the dater would forfeit the money they earned from the date, and dater would walk away together with the contestant, and the remaining daters on the RV would usually say rude or impolite things to the contestant and/or the dater. The segment then shortly ends after either scenario.\n\nThe contestant can ask any dater for a second date. They can be the first or the last. The contestant can also do this at any time during the date, whether it's within seconds of meeting the person, or hours into the date.\n\nHowever, the contestant is only allowed to select one person out of the five to proposition a second date to, (regardless if the dater accepted or rejected their offer for a second date) and after doing this, they are not allowed to meet the remaining daters on the RV (if any).\n\nIf the dater offered a second date by the contestant was not the final person in the dating order, the remaining dater(s) never get to meet the contestant or go on a date with him or her.\n\nA segment would usually end with the contestant giving a proposition to a dater to go on a second date, but the segment could also essentially end if the person \"nexted\" all five contestants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925080", "title": "Queens (Nova Scotia provincial electoral district)", "text": "Queens (Nova Scotia provincial electoral district)\n\nQueens is a former provincial electoral district in Nova Scotia, Canada which existed between 1867-2013. It elected one member to the Nova Scotia House of Assembly. In its last configuration, the electoral district included the entirety of Queens County.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished following the 2012 electoral boundary review and was largely replaced by the new electoral district of Queens-Shelburne.\n\n\nThe electoral district was represented by the following Members of the Legislative Assembly:\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1925081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925081", "title": "Urban township (Ohio)", "text": "Urban township (Ohio)\n\nAn urban township is a designation of a unit of local government in Ohio as prescribed by chapter 504 of the Ohio Revised Code. Chapter 504 outlines the procedures for an Ohio civil township to adopt limited home rule government. At least 5,000 people are required to reside in unincorporated areas of a township for that township to adopt limited home rule government. If 15,000 or more people live in unincorporated areas of a township, that township may qualify as an urban township under O.R.C. § 504.01(B) or (D). \n\n"}
{"id": "1925088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925088", "title": "Omphalomancy", "text": "Omphalomancy\n\nOmphalomancy is a method of divination meant to determine how many children a mother may have during her lifetime, based on the belief that the shape of the navel can reveal this information. This is most commonly done with newborn infants, by noting the markings on the newborn's navel.\n"}
{"id": "1925090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925090", "title": "Cator", "text": "Cator\n\nCator is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1925092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925092", "title": "ASL Airlines Switzerland", "text": "ASL Airlines Switzerland\n\nASL Airlines Switzerland AG was a Swiss passenger charter and freight airline. It operated regular express parcel services from Switzerland and Germany to the main hubs in Europe. It also specialised in operations for humanitarian organisations, the oil industry and other special operations. Its main base was EuroAirport Basel-Mulhouse-Freiburg. Its head office was in Bottmingen, Basel-Landschaft.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1984. It was part of the FARNAIR Group, which comprises four airlines, FARNAIR Switzerland and FARNAIR Hungary, Quikjet India and a share of 45% in K-Mile Air Company Ltd. plus FARNAIR Handling and FARNAIR Training operating under the widely recognised \"FARNAIR Europe\" trademark. FARNAIR's main freighter activities include operating European network feeder services for the integrator and third party logistics industries and ad-hoc charters for manufacturers and freight forwarders where immediate launch is required. The main passenger activities include supplying aircraft to governmental and relief agencies, ACMI services for regional airlines and ad-hoc flights for the events industry with an ATR72, 46 seats turboprop aircraft.\n\nIn December 2014 the FARNAIR Group was acquired by Ireland-based ASL Aviation Group. On 4 June 2015, ASL Aviation Group announced that Farnair Switzerland will be rebranded as ASL Airlines Switzerland.\n\nThe airline's head office moved to Bottmingen, Basel-Landschaft, in proximity to EuroAirport Basel-Mulhouse-Freiburg, on August 2015. The airline's head office used to be on the Swiss side of EuroAirport Basel then in Allschwil, Basel-Landschaft.\n\nASL Airlines Switzerland ceased all operations on 1 February 2018.\n\nAs of October 2016, the ASL Airlines Switzerland fleet comprised the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "1925095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925095", "title": "Bunia", "text": "Bunia\n\nBunia is the capital city of Ituri Province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). It was part of the Orientale Province until that province's dissolution.\n\nIt lies at an elevation of 1275 m on a plateau about 30 km west of Lake Albert in the Albertine Rift, and about 25 km east of the Ituri Forest.\n\nThe city is at the center of the Ituri conflict between the Lendu and Hema. In the Second Congo War the city and district were the scene of much fighting and many civilian deaths from this conflict, and related clashes between militias and Uganda-based forces. Consequently, the city is the base of one of the largest United Nations peace-keeping forces in Africa, and its headquarters in northeastern DRC. The area's natural resources include gold mines over which militias and foreign forces have been fighting.\n\nThe main dirt highways connecting north-eastern DR Congo with Kisangani to the west and Butembo and Goma to the south pass through Bunia, but have fallen into disrepair and are virtually impassable, especially after the frequent rains.\n\nBunia is only 40 km from the Ugandan border running down Lake Albert, but there are no road connections across the Great Rift Valley to the closest Ugandan towns of Toro and Fort Portal. Instead a dirt highway going north-east reaches Arua and Gulu north of the lake. Before the war made the route impassable, this was the chief trade route between the DRC and Uganda, as well between the DRC and Juba in South Sudan, and Bunia was an important market city, for cross-border trade as well as internal trade.\n\nThe supposed route of the Lagos-Mombasa Highway passes just to the south of Bunia, emphasising its potential as a centre of trade, but that transnational highway does not exist as a viable route through the DRC.\n\nBunia is linked to the small port of Kasenyi on Lake Albert by a 60-kilometre dirt track via Bogoro, which has a spectacular and dangerous 600-metre descent of the western escarpment of the Great Rift Valley. Kasenyi has a jetty from which boat transport can link with Mahagi-Port at the north end of the lake, and with Butiaba on the Ugandan side and Pakwach on the Albert Nile.\n\nGiven the poor state of the roads, and the total lack of railway transport, Bunia Airport is of prime importance.\n\nMount Hoyo is 35 km south-west of Bunia. The Shari River flows along the northwestern outskirts of the city. The Ituri River flows around 35 km west of Bunia. The confluence of the Shari and Ituri is about 45 km south-southwest of Bunia.\n\nAlthough Bunia is about 170 km north of the Equator, the city was featured in the BBC television travel documentary \"Equator\" made in 2006, since it was one of the few places near the Equator in eastern DRC where the safety of the TV crew could be assured, by the presence of the large UN peace-keeping force.\n\nBunia has a number of universities, the largest being the University of Bunia (UNIBU) followed by the private Université Shalom de Bunia (USB) which offers the largest library in Bunia (about 40,000 volumes) with an online catalog.\n\n"}
{"id": "1925096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925096", "title": "Subodh Mukherjee", "text": "Subodh Mukherjee\n\nSubodh Mukherjee (14 April 1921 – 21 May 2005) was a renowned filmmaker (producer and director) of Bengali origin. He was the brother of the leading producer-director Sashadhar Mukherjee. \n\nMukherjee was a devotee of the school of movie-making that believed that films were all about great storytelling. In the first two decades of his career, he had a high success percentage, but like so many movie-makers of his generation, he floundered from the seventies and quit in 1985. \n\n"}
{"id": "1925097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925097", "title": "Sibylle Berg", "text": "Sibylle Berg\n\nSibylle Berg (born 2 June 1968 in Weimar<ref>\n"}
{"id": "1925102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925102", "title": "So Taguchi", "text": "So Taguchi\n\nTaguchi is the second Japanese-born player to win a World Series after Tadahito Iguchi in 2005. Taguchi is also the first Japanese player to win two World Series with different teams – with the St. Louis Cardinals in 2006 and the Philadelphia Phillies in 2008.\n\nTaguchi was born and raised in Nishinomiya, Hyōgo, Japan. He graduated from Kwansei Gakuin University in his hometown, with a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration. He was a teammate of Ichiro Suzuki when the two played for the Orix BlueWave in the Pacific League of NPB. Although he was drafted by the BlueWave as an infielder, he was moved to the outfield later in his career.\n\nHe was signed by the St. Louis Cardinals as a free agent in at the age of 33, a year in which he rose through the minor league system, playing for the New Haven Ravens and the Memphis Redbirds, compiling a .262 batting average, with 6 home runs and 51 RBI. He eventually earned a call-up on September 7, and recorded the first hit of his major league career in the second inning against the Chicago Cubs. Taguchi became the first (and to date only) Japanese-born player in Cardinal history. He originally requested to wear the number 6, but he couldn't because it was retired for Stan Musial, nor could he turn 6 upside down because 9 is retired for Enos Slaughter. He could not wear the number he had at the Olympics because 1 was retired for Ozzie Smith. He was also unable to double 6 as Rick Ankiel was on the roster that year. Finally, he decided to wear 99.\nTaguchi got another brief call-up in , then got more playing time with the Cardinals in , appearing in 109 games. He was included on the '04 Cardinals postseason roster, and appeared in two games of the 2004 World Series, which the Cardinals lost to the Boston Red Sox in a four-game sweep. In , injuries to outfielders Larry Walker and Reggie Sanders opened up manager Tony La Russa's lineup card, and Taguchi became an everyday player. He responded with his best season, batting .288 in 396 at-bats with eight home runs and fifty-three RBI, and contributing with his stellar defense at all three outfield positions as the Cardinals won 100 games and had the best record in the National League.\n\nCardinal radio announcer Mike Shannon took to calling Taguchi \"the So-man\" and praising his hard work and extreme personal courtesy. By habit Taguchi would even give a little bow to the umpire whenever he stepped up to the plate. His modest and happy demeanor, as well as shyness due to struggling with English in interviews early on, endeared him to St. Louis fans.\n\nIn , Taguchi's playing time declined somewhat, his at-bat total falling to 316 from 396 the year before. However, Taguchi would make the playoff roster for the Cardinals for the third year in a row, and have a heroic postseason moment: on October 13, 2006, he hit the go-ahead home run off Billy Wagner in the top of the 9th inning of Game 2 of the NLCS. The home run gave the Cardinals a 7–6 lead in a game they would win 9-6. Taguchi played in four of five games of the 2006 World Series for the Cardinals, hitting .182, and won a World Series ring as the Cardinals defeated the Detroit Tigers four games to one. Taguchi agreed to a one-year deal worth $925,000 with the St. Louis Cardinals for the season.\n\nTaguchi returned to the Cardinals in 2007 and had another solid season, batting .290 as a part-time player, with 307 at-bats in 130 games. He was one of manager Tony La Russa's most valuable pinch-hitters; of 46 games in 2007 where he's shown to have had just 1 AB, Taguchi picked up 15 hits. Taguchi played 617 innings in the field, with 41 starts (and 22 other appearances) in center (where Jim Edmonds was banged up) and 21 starts (20 other) in left (where the Cardinals hadn't settled on one player until 2008 and Skip Schumaker). Taguchi played sparingly in right field (2 starts, 6 other) and part of a game at 2B.\n\nAfter the 2007 season ended, the Cardinals declined Taguchi's option for , then decided to forgo arbitration and release Taguchi on December 5, 2007, after Taguchi's agent had requested his release earlier in the week.\n\nOn December 23, 2007, Taguchi was signed to a one-year deal by the Philadelphia Phillies with an option for . Taguchi's numbers fell off sharply, his batting average dropping from .290 in 2007 to .220 in 2008, and he got only 91 at-bats for the whole season. However, he was included on Philadelphia's postseason roster and won his second championship ring when the Phillies won the 2008 World Series. (Taguchi was 0-for-4 pinch-hitting in the NLCS and did not appear in the World Series.)\n\nShortly after winning the World Series, the Phillies decided to decline Taguchi's option and make him a free agent.\n\nTaguchi agreed to a minor league contract with the Chicago Cubs for the season, and was invited to spring training. Taguchi was signed in part to provide a Japanese teammate for Cub outfielder Kosuke Fukudome. Taguchi did not make the Cubs roster and was optioned to Triple-A. After spending most of the season in the minors, Taguchi, who hit .248 with four home runs and 24 RBI in 85 games in the minors, was called up to the Cubs on September 16, 2009, replacing the injured Sam Fuld. He appeared in 12 games and got 3 hits in 11 at-bats.\n\nIn January 2010 Taguchi's old team, the Orix BlueWave (since merged with the Kintetsu Buffaloes to form the Orix Buffaloes), announced that they had signed Taguchi to return and play for them in 2010.\n\nOn July 31, 2012, Taguchi announced his retirement on his official blog.\n\nIn September 2012 Taguchi embarked on a new career as a baseball commentator. By 2013, Taguchi was employed by Japanese broadcaster NHK to announce Major League Baseball games.\n\nTaguchi learned English from his wife, Emiko, a former television reporter who speaks it fluently. He also practiced by watching films such as \"Finding Nemo\" and \"Monsters, Inc.\" They have one son, Kan, born December 24, 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1925106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925106", "title": "Laguna de Términos", "text": "Laguna de Términos\n\nLaguna de Términos is the largest and one of biologically the richest tidal lagoons located entirely on the Gulf Coast of Mexico, as measured by water volume. Exchanging water with several rivers and lagoons, the Laguna is part of the most important hydrographic river basin in Mexico. It is important commercially, as well as ecologically by serving as a refuge for an extensive number of flora and fauna; its mangroves provide an important role as a refuge for migratory birds.\n\nThe Boca de Términos was discovered during Juan de Grijalva's expedition in 1518.\n\nLaguna de Términos (\"Lagoon of Terminus\", as it is the end of regional rivers) is made up of a series of rich, sediment-laden lagoons and tidal estuaries connected by two channels to the Bay of Campeche in the southern part of the Gulf of Mexico, in Carmen Municipality in the southwestern part of the Mexican state of Campeche. Its shores are swampy and support mangroves. It is fed by several freshwater rivers, including the Mezcapala, Grijalva and Usumacinta Rivers, and includes several lagoons such as Pom, Atasta, Puerto Rico, Este and Panlau. It is long, wide, and covers an area of . Every nine days, approximately 50% of the lagoon's water volume is renewed, primarily through the effect of ocean tides.\n\nOn the surrounding barrier islands, beach ridges, and mangrove coastline there are several Late Postclassic Maya sites. The city of Ciudad del Carmen is located on Isla del Carmen, between the lagoon and the Bay of Campeche.\n\nTwenty-nine percent of the lagoon is covered with seagrass. The lagoon was designated as a federally protected area for flora and fauna in 1994 by the Mexican government because of the importance of the biological ecosystems provided by its estuaries. There have been 1,468 identified fauna species found within the protected area of Laguna de Términos; 30 species are endemic to Mexico and 89 are threatened; 132 species are considered to be commercially important. There are 279 bird, 74 insect (considered an incomplete listing), and 34 mammal species identified. At least 367 species of fish are listed.\n\nIt is a known breeding and nursery area for the yellow stingray (\"Urobatis jamaicensis\"); seagrass is reported to be important for its parturition.\n\nCampeche and Tabasco holds wetlands consisting of mangrove zones, swamps, and lagoons serving as important habitats for aquatic reptiles such as crocodiles (American, Morelet's, brown caiman). Nationally endangered hawksbill, green sea, and Kemp's ridley sea turtles come on sandy shores to lay eggs especially setting a special protection on Kemp's ridley turtles.\n\nMangroves around the Lagoon of Términos provides a migratory collider for at least 33% of the Mississippi - migratory birds.\n\nOf about 134 mammalian species from 27 families present in the area, rare and endangered species include felines (jaguar, ocelot, margay), primates (Geoffroy's spider monkey), and marine mammals including cetaceans and the West Indian manatee.\n\nBottlenose dolphins (\"Tursiops truncatus\") are known to visit the lagoon regularly, but their safety could be endangered due to several artificial factors. A conservation group called Instituto Via Delphi which is specially designed for protection of local dolphins along Mexican gulf regions were founded to focus understanding of biology of these dolphins and to strengthen their protection.\n\nThe biggest influence on the area and a possible threat are the operations of state-owned oil company, Pemex operating within the protected area. The drilling of oil wells and the construction of pipelines can destroy habitat. Additionally, oil spills are a continual threat. Other possible threats include habitat change through population growth in the surrounding area. Laguna de Términos Flora and Fauna Protection Area as a whole is considered to be critically threatened.\n\nAlthough Pemex is both the biggest influence and the biggest threat to the protected area and its biodiversity, it is also economically important to Mexico. Currently there is a petroleum boom which presents an opportunity for the management of the protected area to offer to cooperate with the industry and coordinate use of the resources. There are local residents and non-governmental organizations who are aware of the potential problems and who are a strong voice, with public protests against Pemex plans that emphasize the destruction to ecosystems and quality of life at other Pemex locations. Pemex has acknowledged that they must take into account the opinions of the protected area's management and other voices when planning projects so as to minimize negative environment impacts.\n\nLocal populations of crocodiles and sea turtles in the areas are in serious danger due to their value for commercial industries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925112", "title": "Westfield High School", "text": "Westfield High School\n\nWestfield High School may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1925118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925118", "title": "Butyllithium", "text": "Butyllithium\n\nButyllithium may refer to one of 5 isomeric organolithium reagents of which 3 are commonly used in chemical synthesis:\n\n"}
{"id": "1925120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925120", "title": "Multitap", "text": "Multitap\n\nA multitap is a video game console peripheral that increases the number of controller ports available to the player, allowing additional controllers to be used in play, similar to a USB hub or a power strip. A multitap often takes the form of a box with three or more controller ports which is then connected to a controller port on the console itself.\n\nMainly sports games have supported multitaps due to the multiplayer aspect of some sport games, though some role-playing video games and first person shooters have taken advantage of multitap support.\n\nThe earliest multi-controller adapter was the Joypair by HAL Laboratory, released in Japan for Nintendo's Family Computer in 1985, which allows two additional controllers to be plugged into the console's DA-15 expansion port. Originally the Joypair was only intended to allow two players to use specialized controllers (specifically HAL's controllers) in place of the standard Famicom joypads (which were hardwired into the console itself), but \"Nekketsu Kōkō Dodgeball Bu\" (the Japanese version of \"Super Dodge Ball\") utilized it to allow up to four players to participate in the game's Bean Ball mode.Hori later released the Twin Adapter in 1989 as an alternative to the Joypair, while certain controllers (such as the ASCII Stick series and certain models of the Family Champ joysticks) came equipped with an additional expansion port that allowed for users to connect an additional controller into them. A more conventional 4-Players Adapter for the Famicom was eventually released by Hori in 1990, which allowed up to four controllers to be plugged into the expansion port (allowing each player to utilize a specialized joypad if they desired). During the same year, Nintendo released their own first-party adapters for the Nintendo Entertainment System in North America: the NES Four Score and the NES Satellite. Despite the fact that the HVC-101 model of the Famicom uses the same controller ports as the NES, 4-player Famicom games are not compatible with the NES multitaps.\n\nThe Multitap (the first device to be marketed with such a name) by NEC Home Electronics for the PC Engine, which launched alongside the platform in Japan on October 30, 1987, was the first multi-controller adapter made specifically for multiplayer support, allowing up to five controllers to be plugged into the console. Because the console itself only has one controller port as standard, the Multitap was a necessity for games that supported more than one player. As a result, various inexpensive alternatives to the Multitap were released for the PC Engine by third-party companies, such as the Battle Tap by Big Club and the Joy Tap 3 by Hudson Soft, which featured less controller ports than the first-party Multitap, but these were gradually phased out as more games started to allow up to five players. The first PC Engine game to allow more than two players simultaneously was \"\" in August 1988 (ten months after the launch of the system), which allowed up to four players in a doubles match, while \"Dungeon Explorer\" in 1989 was the first game to fully allow up to five players. The Multitap was redesigned into the TurboTap for the North American market with the launch of the TurboGrafx-16 in 1989, and later as the DuoTap for the TurboDuo in 1992 (the different models were due to the change in controller ports between the TurboGrafx-16 and the TurboDuo).\nHudson Soft manufactured the Super Multitap, a multiplayer adapter for the Super NES in 1993. The adapter connects to the second controller port of the SNES control deck (leaving the first one free), resulting in a total of five controller ports (much like the original Multitap for the PC Engine). It was produced primarily for \"Super Bomberman\", which had a prior installment on the PC Engine (simply titled \"Bomberman\") that featured a five-player battle mode, although the SNES game only supported up to four players (the series did not support five players on the SNES until \"Super Bomberman 3\", which was released only in Japan and the PAL region). The Super Multitap has a switch for 2P Mode and 5P Mode, allowing it to remain connected into the console without affecting incompatible games. While no Nintendo-produced version of the peripheral was ever produced (nor were there any first-party games that supported it), various other SNES multitaps were later produced by other companies (both, licensed and unlicensed) such as the Hori Multitap (released by Bulletproof Software in North America as the Super Links) and the Multi-Adaptor Auto. One particular unlicensed model, the Tribal Tap 6 Player Adaptor by Naki, added a fraudulent sixth controller port that was promoted as a selling point against competing multitap models, even though no licensed SNES game ever supported more than five players.\nTwo independently developed multitaps were released for the Sega Genesis also in 1993. The 4-Way Play (which utilized both controller ports) was developed by Electronic Arts without license from Sega and was made specifically for their lineup of sports games (such as \"Madden NFL '94\"), whereas the Team Player (known as the SegaTap in Japan) was developed by Tengen for \"Gauntlet IV\" and sold by Sega as a first-party product. In contrast to the 4-Way Play, the Team Player only required one controller port (leaving an additional port free for a fifth player, much like the Super Multitap) and also acted as a splitter that allowed users to switch between multiple input devices (such as a mouse or a light gun) connected to the console at the same time. The original model of the Team Player (MK-1654) was incompatible with games that required the 4-Way Play, so a revision (MK-1647) was later produced that solved this issue by adding a second controller cord and an \"Extra\" setting for 4-Way Play compatibility. While most Team Player-compatible titles only supported up to four players (with some games such as \"Columns III\" supporting up to five), Konami's \"Double Dribble: The Playoff Season\" and Sega's \"Egawa Suguru's Super League CD\" (a Japan-exclusive baseball game for Mega CD) both allow up to eight players with the use of two Team Player adapters (one in each controller port). In addition to these multitaps, Codemasters released a series of Genesis cartridges known as the J-Cart with two additional controller ports installed on them, allowing users to plug in additional controllers on them without the need of an adapter. A total of six games were released in J-Cart format.\n\nA few games released for the Amiga home computer system after 1995 included support for custom-built multitaps. Instructions for how to build a multitap were included in the manual to classic Amiga racing sequel \"Super Skidmarks\". The Amiga multitap would plug into the computer's parallel port and provide two additional ports for use. Earlier, the Amiga version of \"Bomberman\", \"Dynablaster\" had already included support for a similar device, as demonstrated on Season 2, Episode 5 of TV's GamesMaster.\n\nThe original PlayStation Multitap was one of the earliest peripherals released for the platform. It featured not only four additional controller ports, but also four memory card slots for each of them as well. Like the Team Player adapter for the Genesis, two PlayStation Multitaps could be used at the same time for up to eight controllers and memory cards, although very few games allowed for more than five players.\nA six-controller adapter was released for the Sega Saturn (sold as the Multi-Player Adaptor in the United States and as the Multi Terminal 6 in Japan), which features the most controller ports out of all the multitaps made by first party manufacturers. The most famous Saturn game to make use of the multitap was \"Saturn Bomberman\", which supports up to 10 players (requires two multitaps) simultaneously. A number of sports games such as \"NFL Quarterback Club 96\" support the maximum of 12 players. The \"Sega Saturn Multiplayer Task Force (SSMTF)\" is a small but enthusiastic group of developers who have released homebrew games dedicated to utilizing the Saturn's multitap. \n\nOne of the first multitaps for personal computers, the Gravis Interface Protocol (officially abbreviated GrIP) from Advanced Gravis Computer Technology, has six ports, four for digital Gravis-brand gamepads (e.g. the Gravis PC GamePad), and two pass-through ports for analog joysticks.\n\nThe Nintendo 64 did not have any official multitaps released for it, as the console featured four controller ports by default (the first console to do so since the Bally Astrocade). As a result, many four-player games were released for the system. Dreamcast and the original Xbox would follow the N64's example by including four controller ports as default as well, as did Nintendo's succeeding console, the GameCube.\n\nDespite this, the PlayStation 2 was released with only two controller ports like its predecessor, so a Multitap was still produced for the console. Because of compatibility issues, the original PS2 Multitap (SCPH-10090) for the early models of the console only worked specifically on PS2 games, meaning that the original PlayStation or PS one Multitap was still required for the games on the previous console. For the \"slimline\" model of the PS2, a new Multitap (SCPH-70120) was made that supported both, PS and PS2 games.\n\nAll three seventh generation consoles abandoned the use of conventional wired controller in favor of having wireless controllers as standard, although the maximum number of detected controllers varies with each platform. The Xbox 360 console can detect up to four wireless controllers, as well as three wired controllers via USB connection. The Wii, which uses a motion-sensitive remote controller known as the Wii Remote, could detect up to four wireless controllers, but also had four controller ports that were compatible with GameCube controllers. The PlayStation 3 could support up to seven wireless controllers.\n\nFor the eighth generation consoles, the maximum number of wireless controllers detected by the PlayStation 4 was reduced to four, while the ones detected by the Xbox One was raised to eight. The Wii U can support up to seven Wii Remotes or Wii U Pro Controllers in addition to the GamePad, for a total of eight wireless controllers. The Wii U does not feature GameCube controller ports by default, but a GameCube Controller Adapter was primarily made for \"Super Smash Bros. for Wii U\" that connects up to four GameCube controllers via the Wii U's USB port. Through the use of a USB hub and two adapters, up to eight GameCube controllers can be used. The Nintendo Switch supports up to eight controllers, in any combination of individual Joy-Con controllers or Pro Controllers.\n\nMany systems were not designed with multitaps in mind, and so require some clever design to work. Because of this, games usually have to be specially written to include multitap support.\n\nThe most common way of implementing 8 and 16 bit multitaps is to multiplex the signals from each attached controller in some way. Some systems have unused lines available on the controller port, designed for future expansion, which can be used. Another popular technique is to serialise the data from each controller. Since the NES and Super NES both use a serial bus for standard controllers, creating a multitap is simply a case of increasing the amount of serial data available to the console. In that way, an almost unlimited number of extra controllers can be connected.\n\nLater systems used more complex buses, such as the Nintendo 64 serial bus, the Dreamcast Maple Bus or USB. These buses tend to be more modular and can already support more than one device per port, making the multitap little more than a hub.\n\n"}
{"id": "1925125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925125", "title": "Metoposcopy", "text": "Metoposcopy\n\nMetoposcopy is a form of divination in which the diviner predicts personality, character, and destiny, based on the pattern of lines on the subject's forehead. It was in use in the Classical era, and was widespread in the Middle Ages, reaching its zenith in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nPliny mentions a \"metoposcopos\", described by Appion the Grammarian, who (\"a thing incredible to be spoken\") could judge a person's age and how much longer they would live. According to Suetonius, another practitioner determined that Titus, and not Britannicus, would become Emperor. Juvenal was disdainful, and considered metoposcopy to be plebeian.\n\nMetoposcopy is prominently featured in the Zohar. Isaac Luria (1534 - 1572), a Syrian rabbi considered to be the founder of contemporary Kabbalah, practised a form of metoposcopy in which he interpreted the appearance of Hebrew letters on the forehead.\n\nMetoposcopy was developed by the 16th century Italian polymath Gerolamo Cardano, considered to be one of the foremost mathematicians of the Renaissance. His seminal work \"Metoposcopia libris tredecim, et octingentis faciei humanae eiconibus complexa\", illustrated with engravings of 800 foreheads, was written in 1558 and published posthumously in 1658. Giovanni Antonio Magini was also interested in the subject. Many metoposcopy books were published in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nJean Bodin denounced metoposcopy in his influential work \"De la démonomanie des sorciers\" (1580). The practise was banned by Pope Sixtus V in 1586.\n\n\n"}
