{"id": "1952472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952472", "title": "Restoration literature", "text": "Restoration literature\n\nRestoration literature is the English literature written during the historical period commonly referred to as the English Restoration (1660–1689), which corresponds to the last years of Stuart reign in England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland. In general, the term is used to denote roughly homogenous styles of literature that centre on a celebration of or reaction to the restored court of Charles II. It is a literature that includes extremes, for it encompasses both \"Paradise Lost\" and the Earl of Rochester's \"Sodom\", the high-spirited sexual comedy of \"The Country Wife\" and the moral wisdom of \"The Pilgrim's Progress\". It saw Locke's \"Treatises of Government\", the founding of the Royal Society, the experiments and holy meditations of Robert Boyle, the hysterical attacks on theatres from Jeremy Collier, and the pioneering of literary criticism from John Dryden and John Dennis. The period witnessed news become a commodity, the essay develop into a periodical art form, and the beginnings of textual criticism.\n\nThe dates for Restoration literature are a matter of convention, and they differ markedly from genre to genre. Thus, the \"Restoration\" in drama may last until 1700, while in poetry it may last only until 1666 (see 1666 in poetry) and the \"annus mirabilis\"; and in prose it might end in 1688, with the increasing tensions over succession and the corresponding rise in journalism and periodicals, or not until 1700, when those periodicals grew more stabilized. In general, scholars use the term \"Restoration\" to denote the literature that began and flourished under Charles II, whether that literature was the laudatory ode that gained a new life with restored aristocracy, the eschatological literature that showed an increasing despair among Puritans, or the literature of rapid communication and trade that followed in the wake of England's mercantile empire.\n\nDuring the Interregnum, England had been dominated by Puritan literature and the intermittent presence of official censorship (for example, Milton's \"Areopagitica\" and his later retraction of that statement). While some of the Puritan ministers of Oliver Cromwell wrote poetry that was elaborate and carnal (such as Andrew Marvell's poem, \"To His Coy Mistress\"), such poetry was not published. Similarly, some of the poets who published with the Restoration produced their poetry during the Interregnum. The official break in literary culture caused by censorship and radically moralist standards effectively created a gap in literary tradition. At the time of the Civil War, poetry had been dominated by metaphysical poetry of the John Donne, George Herbert, and Richard Lovelace sort. Drama had developed the late Elizabethan theatre traditions and had begun to mount increasingly topical and political plays (for example, the drama of Thomas Middleton). The Interregnum put a stop, or at least a caesura, to these lines of influence and allowed a seemingly fresh start for all forms of literature after the Restoration.\n\nThe last years of the Interregnum were turbulent, as were the last years of the Restoration period, and those who did not go into exile were called upon to change their religious beliefs more than once. With each religious preference came a different sort of literature, both in prose and poetry (the theatres were closed during the Interregnum). When Cromwell died and his son, Richard Cromwell, threatened to become Lord Protector, politicians and public figures scrambled to show themselves as allies or enemies of the new regime. Printed literature was dominated by odes in poetry, and religious writing in prose. The industry of religious tract writing, despite official efforts, did not reduce its output. Figures such as the founder of the Society of Friends, George Fox, were jailed by the Cromwellian authorities and published at their own peril.\n\nDuring the Interregnum, the royalist forces attached to the court of Charles I went into exile with the twenty-year-old Charles II and conducted a brisk business in intelligence and fund-raising for an eventual return to England. Some of the royalist ladies installed themselves in convents in Holland and France that offered safe haven for indigent and travelling nobles and allies. The men similarly stationed themselves in Holland and France, with the court-in-exile being established in The Hague before setting up more permanently in Paris. The nobility who travelled with (and later travelled to) Charles II were therefore lodged for more than a decade in the midst of the continent's literary scene. As Holland and France in the 17th century were little alike, so the influences picked up by courtiers in exile and the travellers who sent intelligence and money to them were not monolithic. Charles spent his time attending plays in France, and he developed a taste for Spanish plays. Those nobles living in Holland began to learn about mercantile exchange as well as the tolerant, rationalist prose debates that circulated in that officially tolerant nation. John Bramhall, for example, had been a strongly high church theologian, and yet, in exile, he debated willingly with Thomas Hobbes and came into the Restored church as tolerant in practice as he was severe in argument. Courtiers also received an exposure to the Roman Catholic Church and its liturgy and pageants, as well as, to a lesser extent, Italian poetry.\n\nWhen Charles II became king in 1660, the sense of novelty in literature was tempered by a sense of suddenly participating in European literature in a way that England had not before. One of Charles's first moves was to reopen the theatres and to grant letters patent giving mandates for the theatre owners and managers. Thomas Killigrew received one of the patents, establishing the King's Company and opening the first patent theatre at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane; Sir William Davenant received the other, establishing the Duke of York's theatre company and opening his patent theatre in Lincoln's Inn Fields. Drama was public and a matter of royal concern, and therefore both theatres were charged with producing a certain number of old plays, and Davenant was charged with presenting material that would be morally uplifting. Additionally, the position of Poet Laureate was recreated, complete with payment by a barrel of \"sack\" (Spanish white wine), and the requirement for birthday odes.\n\nCharles II was a man who prided himself on his wit and his worldliness. He was well known as a philanderer as well. Highly witty, playful, and sexually wise poetry thus had court sanction. Charles and his brother James, the Duke of York and future King of England, also sponsored mathematics and natural philosophy, and so spirited scepticism and investigation into nature were favoured by the court. Charles II sponsored the Royal Society, which courtiers were eager to join (for example, the noted diarist Samuel Pepys was a member), just as Royal Society members moved in court. Charles and his court had also learned the lessons of exile. Charles was High Church (and secretly vowed to convert to Roman Catholicism on his death) and James was crypto-Catholic, but royal policy was generally tolerant of religious and political dissenters. While Charles II did have his own version of the Test Act, he was slow to jail or persecute Puritans, preferring merely to keep them from public office (and therefore to try to rob them of their Parliamentary positions). As a consequence, the prose literature of dissent, political theory, and economics increased in Charles II's reign.\n\nAuthors moved in two directions in reaction to Charles's return. On the one hand, there was an attempt at recovering the English literature of the Jacobean period, as if there had been no disruption; but, on the other, there was a powerful sense of novelty, and authors approached Gallic models of literature and elevated the literature of wit (particularly satire and parody). The novelty would show in the literature of sceptical inquiry, and the Gallicism would show in the introduction of Neoclassicism into English writing and criticism.\n\nThe Restoration is an unusual historical period, as its literature is bounded by a specific political event: the restoration of the Stewie monarchy. It is unusual in another way, as well, for it is a time when the influence of that king's presence and personality permeated literary society to such an extent that, almost uniquely, literature reflects the court. The adversaries of the restoration, the Puritans and democrats and republicans, similarly respond to the peculiarities of the king and the king's personality. Therefore, a top-down view of the literary history of the Restoration has more validity than that of most literary epochs. \"The Restoration\" as a critical concept covers the duration of the effect of Charles and Charles's manner. This effect extended beyond his death, in some instances, and not as long as his life, in others.\n\nThe Restoration was an age of poetry. Not only was poetry the most popular form of literature, but it was also the most \"significant\" form of literature, as poems affected political events and immediately reflected the times. It was, to its own people, an age dominated only by the king, and not by any single genius. Throughout the period, the lyric, ariel, historical, and epic poem was being developed.\n\nEven without the introduction of Neo-classical criticism, English poets were aware that they had no national epic. Edmund Spenser's \"Faerie Queene\" was well known, but England, unlike France with \"The Song of Roland\" or Spain with the \"Cantar de Mio Cid\" or, most of all, Italy with the \"Aeneid\", had no epic poem of national origins. Several poets attempted to supply this void.\nSir William Davenant was the first Restoration poet to attempt an epic. His unfinished \"Gondibert\" was of epic length, and it was admired by Hobbes. However, it also used the ballad form, and other poets, as well as critics, were very quick to condemn this rhyme scheme as unflattering and unheroic (Dryden \"Epic\"). The prefaces to \"Gondibert\" show the struggle for a formal epic structure, as well as how the early Restoration saw themselves in relation to Classical literature.\n\nAlthough today he is studied separately from the Restoration period, John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" was published during that time. Milton no less than Davenant wished to write the English epic, and chose blank verse as his form. Milton rejected the cause of English exceptionalism: his \"Paradise Lost\" seeks to tell the story of all mankind, and his pride is in Christianity rather than Englishness.\n\nSignificantly, Milton began with an attempt at writing an epic on King Arthur, for that was the matter of English national founding. While Milton rejected that subject, in the end, others made the attempt. Richard Blackmore wrote both a \"Prince Arthur\" and \"King Arthur\". Both attempts were long, soporific, and failed both critically and popularly. Indeed, the poetry was so slow that the author became known as \"Never-ending Blackmore\" (see Alexander Pope's lambasting of Blackmore in \"The Dunciad\").\n\nThe Restoration period ended without an English epic. \"Beowulf\" may now be called the English epic, but the work was unknown to Restoration authors, and Old English was incomprehensible to them.\n\nLyric poetry, in which the poet speaks of his or her own feelings in the first person and expresses a mood, was not especially common in the Restoration period. Poets expressed their points of view in other forms, usually public or formally disguised poetic forms such as odes, pastoral poetry, and ariel verse. One of the characteristics of the period is its devaluation of individual sentiment and psychology in favour of public utterance and philosophy. The sorts of lyric poetry found later in the Churchyard Poets would, in the Restoration, only exist as pastorals.\n\nFormally, the Restoration period had a preferred rhyme scheme. Rhyming couplets in iambic pentameter was by far the most popular structure for poetry of all types. Neo-Classicism meant that poets attempted adaptations of Classical meters, but the rhyming couplet in iambic pentameter held a near monopoly. According to Dryden (\"Preface to \"The Conquest of Grenada\"\"), the rhyming couplet in iambic pentameter has the right restraint and dignity for a lofty subject, and its rhyme allowed for a complete, coherent statement to be made. Dryden was struggling with the issue of what later critics in the Augustan period would call \"decorum\": the fitness of form to subject (q.v. Dryden \"Epic\"). It is the same struggle that Davenant faced in his \"Gondibert\". Dryden's solution was a closed couplet in iambic pentameter that would have a minimum of enjambment. This form was called the \"heroic couplet,\" because it was suitable for heroic subjects. Additionally, the age also developed the mock-heroic couplet. After 1672 and Samuel Butler's \"Hudibras\", iambic tetrameter couplets with unusual or unexpected rhymes became known as Hudibrastic verse. It was a formal parody of heroic verse, and it was primarily used for satire. Jonathan Swift would use the Hudibrastic form almost exclusively for his poetry.\n\nAlthough Dryden's reputation is greater today, contemporaries saw the 1670s and 1680s as the age of courtier poets in general, and Edmund Waller was as praised as any. Dryden, Rochester, Buckingham, and Dorset dominated verse, and all were attached to the court of Charles. Aphra Behn, Matthew Prior, and Robert Gould, by contrast, were outsiders who were profoundly royalist. The court poets follow no one particular style, except that they all show sexual awareness, a willingness to satirise, and a dependence upon wit to dominate their opponents. Each of these poets wrote for the stage as well as the page. Of these, Behn, Dryden, Rochester, and Gould deserve some separate mention.\nDryden was prolific; and he was often accused of plagiarism. Both before and after his Laureateship, he wrote public odes. He attempted the Jacobean pastoral along the lines of Walter Raleigh and Philip Sidney, but his greatest successes and fame came from his attempts at apologetics for the restored court and the Established Church. His \"Absalom and Achitophel\" and \"Religio Laici\" both served the King directly by making controversial royal actions seem reasonable. He also pioneered the mock-heroic. Although Samuel Butler had invented the mock-heroic in English with \"Hudibras\" (written during the Interregnum but published in the Restoration), Dryden's \"MacFlecknoe\" set up the satirical parody. Dryden was himself not of noble blood, and he was never awarded the honours that he had been promised by the King (nor was he repaid the loans he had made to the King), but he did as much as any peer to serve Charles II. Even when James II came to the throne and Roman Catholicism was on the rise, Dryden attempted to serve the court, and his \"The Hind and the Panther\" praised the Roman church above all others. After that point, Dryden suffered for his conversions, and he was the victim of many satires.\nBuckingham wrote some court poetry, but he, like Dorset, was a patron of poetry more than a poet. Rochester, meanwhile, was a prolix and outrageous poet. Rochester's poetry is almost always sexually frank and is frequently political. Inasmuch as the Restoration came after the Interregnum, the very sexual explicitness of Rochester's verse was a political statement and a thumb in the eye of Puritans. His poetry often assumes a lyric pose, as he pretends to write in sadness over his own impotence (\"The Disabled Debauchee\") or sexual conquests, but most of Rochester's poetry is a parody of an existing, Classically authorised form. He has a mock topographical poem (\"Ramble in St James Park\", which is about the dangers of darkness for a man intent on copulation and the historical compulsion of that plot of ground as a place for fornication), several mock odes (\"To Signore Dildo,\" concerning the public burning of a crate of \"contraband\" from France on the London docks), and mock pastorals. Rochester's interest was in inversion, disruption, and the superiority of wit as much as it was in hedonism. Rochester's venality led to an early death, and he was later frequently invoked as the exemplar of a Restoration rake.\n\nAphra Behn modelled the rake Willmore in her play \"The Rover\" on Rochester; and while she was best known publicly for her drama (in the 1670s, only Dryden's plays were staged more often than hers), Behn wrote a great deal of poetry that would be the basis of her later reputation. Edward Bysshe would include numerous quotations from her verse in his \"Art of English Poetry\" (1702). While her poetry was occasionally sexually frank, it was never as graphic or intentionally lurid and titillating as Rochester's. Rather, her poetry was, like the court's ethos, playful and honest about sexual desire. One of the most remarkable aspects of Behn's success in court poetry, however, is that Behn was herself a commoner. She had no more relation to peers than Dryden, and possibly quite a bit less. As a woman, a commoner, and Kentish, she is remarkable for her success in moving in the same circles as the King himself. As Janet Todd and others have shown, she was likely a spy for the Royalist side during the Interregnum. She was certainly a spy for Charles II in the Second Anglo-Dutch War, but found her services unrewarded (in fact, she may have spent time in debtor's prison) and turned to writing to support herself. Her ability to write poetry that stands among the best of the age gives some lie to the notion that the Restoration was an age of female illiteracy and verse composed and read only by peers.\n\nIf Behn is a curious exception to the rule of noble verse, Robert Gould breaks that rule altogether. Gould was born of a common family and orphaned at the age of thirteen. He had no schooling at all and worked as a domestic servant, first as a footman and then, probably, in the pantry. However, he was attached to the Earl of Dorset's household, and Gould somehow learned to read and write, as well as possibly to read and write Latin. In the 1680s and 1690s, Gould's poetry was very popular. He attempted to write odes for money, but his great success came with \"Love Given O'er, or A Satyr Upon ... Woman\" in 1692. It was a partial adaptation of a satire by Juvenal, but with an immense amount of explicit invective against women. The misogyny in this poem is some of the harshest and most visceral in English poetry: the poem sold out all editions. Gould also wrote a \"Satyr on the Play House\" (reprinted in Montagu Sommers's \"The London Stage\") with detailed descriptions of the actions and actors involved in the Restoration stage. He followed the success of \"Love Given O'er\" with a series of misogynistic poems, all of which have specific, graphic, and witty denunciations of female behaviour. His poetry has \"virgin\" brides who, upon their wedding nights, have \"the straight gate so wide/ It's been leapt by all mankind,\" noblewomen who have money but prefer to pay the coachman with oral sex, and noblewomen having sex in their coaches and having the cobblestones heighten their pleasures. Gould's career was brief, but his success was not a novelty of subliterary misogyny. After Dryden's conversion to Roman Catholicism, Gould even engaged in a poison pen battle with the Laureate. His \"Jack Squab\" (the Laureate getting paid with squab as well as sack and implying that Dryden would sell his soul for a dinner) attacked Dryden's faithlessness viciously, and Dryden and his friends replied. That a footman even \"could\" conduct a verse war is remarkable. That he did so without, apparently, any prompting from his patron is astonishing.\n\nRoger L'Estrange (per above) was a significant translator, and he also produced verse translations. Others, such as Richard Blackmore, were admired for their \"sentence\" (declamation and sentiment) but have not been remembered. Also, Elkannah Settle was, in the Restoration, a lively and promising political satirist, though his reputation has not fared well since his day. After booksellers began hiring authors and sponsoring specific translations, the shops filled quickly with poetry from hirelings. Similarly, as periodical literature began to assert itself as a political force, a number of now anonymous poets produced topical, specifically occasional verse.\n\nThe largest and most important form of \"incunabula\" of the era was satire. There were great dangers in being associated with satire and its publication was generally done anonymously. To begin with, defamation law cast a wide net, and it was difficult for a satirist to avoid prosecution if he were proven to have written a piece that seemed to criticise a noble. More dangerously, wealthy individuals would often respond to satire by having the suspected poet physically attacked by ruffians. The Earl of Rochester hired such thugs to attack John Dryden suspected of having written \"An Essay on Satire\". A consequence of this anonymity is that a great many poems, some of them of merit, are unpublished and largely unknown. Political satires against The Cabal, against Sunderland's government, and, most especially, against James II's rumoured conversion to Roman Catholicism, are uncollected. However, such poetry was a vital part of the vigorous Restoration scene, and it was an age of energetic and voluminous satire.\n\nProse in the Restoration period is dominated by Christian religious writing, but the Restoration also saw the beginnings of two genres that would dominate later periods: fiction and journalism. Religious writing often strayed into political and economic writing, just as political and economic writing implied or directly addressed religion.\n\nThe Restoration saw the publication of a number of significant pieces of political and philosophical writing that had been spurred by the actions of the Interregnum. Additionally, the court's adoption of Neo-classicism and empirical science led to a receptiveness toward significant philosophical works.\n\nThomas Sprat wrote his \"History of the Royal Society\" in 1667 and set forth, in a single document, the goals of empirical science ever after. He expressed grave suspicions of adjectives, nebulous terminology, and all language that might be subjective. He praised a spare, clean, and precise vocabulary for science and explanations that are as comprehensible as possible. In Sprat's account, the Royal Society explicitly rejected anything that seemed like scholasticism. For Sprat, as for a number of the founders of the Royal Society, science was Protestant: its reasons and explanations had to be comprehensible to all. There would be no priests in science, and anyone could reproduce the experiments and hear their lessons. Similarly, he emphasised the need for conciseness in description, as well as reproducibility of experiments.\nWilliam Temple, after he retired from being what today would be called Secretary of State, wrote several bucolic prose works in praise of retirement, contemplation, and direct observation of nature. He also brought the Ancients and Moderns quarrel into English with his \"Reflections on Ancient and Modern Learning\". The debates that followed in the wake of this quarrel would inspire many of the major authors of the first half of the 18th century (most notably Swift and Alexander Pope).\n\nThe Restoration was also the time when John Locke wrote many of his philosophical works. Locke's empiricism was an attempt at understanding the basis of human understanding itself and thereby devising a proper manner for making sound decisions. These same scientific methods led Locke to his \"Two Treatises of Government\", which later inspired the thinkers in the American Revolution. As with his work on understanding, Locke moves from the most basic units of society toward the more elaborate, and, like Thomas Hobbes, he emphasises the plastic nature of the social contract. For an age that had seen absolute monarchy overthrown, democracy attempted, democracy corrupted, and limited monarchy restored; only a flexible basis for government could be satisfying.\n\nThe Restoration moderated most of the more strident sectarian writing, but radicalism persisted after the Restoration. Puritan authors such as John Milton were forced to retire from public life or adapt, and those Diggers, Fifth Monarchist, Leveller, Quaker, and Anabaptist authors who had preached against monarchy and who had participated directly in the regicide of Charles I were partially suppressed. Consequently, violent writings were forced underground, and many of those who had served in the Interregnum attenuated their positions in the Restoration.\n\nFox, and William Penn, made public vows of pacifism and preached a new theology of peace and love. Other Puritans contented themselves with being able to meet freely and act on local parishes. They distanced themselves from the harshest sides of their religion that had led to the abuses of Cromwell's reign. Two religious authors stand out beyond the others in this time: John Bunyan and Izaak Walton.\n\nBunyan's \"The Pilgrim's Progress\" is an allegory of personal salvation and a guide to the Christian life. Instead of any focus on eschatology or divine retribution, Bunyan instead writes about how the individual saint can prevail against the temptations of mind and body that threaten damnation. The book is written in a straightforward narrative and shows influence from both drama and biography, and yet it also shows an awareness of the allegorical tradition found in Edmund Spenser.\nIzaak Walton's \"The Compleat Angler\" is similarly introspective. Ostensibly, his book is a guide to fishing, but readers treasured its contents for their descriptions of nature and serenity. There are few analogues to this prose work. On the surface, it appears to be in the tradition of other guide books (several of which appeared in the Restoration, including Charles Cotton's \"The Compleat Gamester\", which is one of the earliest attempts at settling the rules of card games), but, like \"Pilgrim's Progress\", its main business is guiding the individual.\n\nMore court-oriented religious prose included sermon collections and a great literature of debate over the convocation and issues before the House of Lords. The Act of First Fruits and Fifths, the Test Act, the Act of Uniformity 1662, and others engaged the leading divines of the day. Robert Boyle, notable as a scientist, also wrote his \"Meditations\" on God, and this work was immensely popular as devotional literature well beyond the Restoration. (Indeed, it is today perhaps most famous for Jonathan Swift's parody of it in \"Meditation Upon a Broomstick\".) Devotional literature in general sold well and attests a wide literacy rate among the English middle classes.\n\nDuring the Restoration period, the most common manner of getting news would have been a broadsheet publication. A single, large sheet of paper might have a written, usually partisan, account of an event. However, the period saw the beginnings of the first professional and periodical (meaning that the publication was regular) journalism in England. Journalism develops late, generally around the time of William of Orange's claiming the throne in 1689. Coincidentally or by design, England began to have newspapers just when William came to court from Amsterdam, where there were already newspapers being published.\n\nThe early efforts at news sheets and periodicals were spotty. Roger L'Estrange produced both \"The News\" and \"City Mercury\", but neither of them was a sustained effort. Henry Muddiman was the first to succeed in a regular news paper with the \"London Gazette\". In 1665, Muddiman produced the \"Oxford Gazette\" as a digest of news of the royal court, which was in Oxford to avoid the plague in London. When the court moved back to Whitehall later in the year, the title \"London Gazette\" was adopted (and is still in use today). Muddiman had begun as a journalist in the Interregnum and had been the official journalist of the Long Parliament (in the form of \"The Parliamentary Intelligencer\"). Although Muddiman's productions are the first regular news accounts, they are still not the first modern newspaper, as the work was sent in manuscript by post to subscribers and was not a printed sheet for general sale to the public. That had to wait for \"The Athenian Mercury\".\nSporadic essays combined with news had been published throughout the Restoration period, but \"The Athenian Mercury\" was the first regularly published periodical in England. John Dunton and the \"Athenian Society\" (actually a mathematician, minister, and philosopher paid by Dunton for their work) began publishing in 1691, just after the reign of William III and Mary II began. In addition to news reports, \"The Athenian Mercury\" allowed readers to send in questions anonymously and receive a printed answer. The questions mainly dealt with love and health, but there were some bizarre and intentionally amusing questions as well (e.g. a question on why a person shivers after urination, written in rhyming couplets). The questions section allowed the journal to sell well and to be profitable. Therefore, it ran for six years, produced four books that spun off from the columns, and then received a bound publication as \"The Athenian Oracle\". He also published the first periodical designed for women \"The Ladies' Mercury\".\n\n\"The Athenian Mercury\" set the stage for the later \"Spectator\", \"Gray's Inn Journal\", \"Temple Bar Journal\", and scores of politically oriented journals, such as the original \"The Guardian\", \"The Observer\", \"The Freeholder\", \"Mist's Journal\", and many others. Also, \"The Athenian Mercury\" published poetry from contributors, and it was the first to publish the poetry of Jonathan Swift and Elizabeth Singer Rowe. The trend of newspapers would similarly explode in subsequent years; a number of these later papers had runs of a single day and were composed entirely as a method of planting political attacks (Pope called them \"Sons of a day\" in \"Dunciad B\").• Later Romantic writers, who valued the idea of originality, also prized the meaning of \"revolution\" which signified a violent break with the past and often represented their work as offering just such a break with tradition. However, changes to literary forms and content occurred much more gradually than this use of the word \"revolution\" might suggest.\n\nAlthough it is impossible to satisfactorily date the beginning of the novel in English, long fiction and fictional biographies began to distinguish themselves from other forms in England during the Restoration period. An existing tradition of \"Romance\" fiction in France and Spain was popular in England. Ludovico Ariosto's \"Orlando Furioso\" engendered prose narratives of love, peril, and revenge, and Gauthier de Costes, seigneur de la Calprenède's novels were quite popular during the Interregnum and beyond.\n\nThe \"Romance\" was considered a feminine form, and women were taxed with reading \"novels\" as a vice. Inasmuch as these novels were largely read in French or in translation from French, they were associated with effeminacy. However, novels slowly divested themselves of the Arthurian and chivalric trappings and came to centre on more ordinary or picaresque figures. One of the most significant figures in the rise of the novel in the Restoration period is Aphra Behn. She was not only the first professional female novelist, but she may also be among the first professional novelists of either sex in England.\nBehn's first novel was \"Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and His Sister\" in 1684. This was an epistolary novel documenting the amours of a scandalous nobleman who was unfaithful to his wife with her sister (thus making his lover his sister-in-law rather than biological sister). The novel is highly romantic, sexually explicit, and political. Behn wrote the novel in two parts, with the second part showing a distinctly different style from the first. Behn also wrote several \"Histories\" of fictional figures, such as her \"The History of a Nun\". As the genre of \"novel\" did not exist, these histories were prose fictions based on biography. However, her most famous novel was \"Oroonoko\" in 1688. This was a fictional biography, published as a \"true history\", of an African king who had been enslaved in Suriname, a colony Behn herself had visited.\n\nBehn's novels show the influence of tragedy and her experiences as a dramatist. Later novels by Daniel Defoe would adopt the same narrative framework, although his choice of biography would be tempered by his experience as a journalist writing \"true histories\" of criminals.\n\nOther forms of fiction were also popular. Available to readers were versions of the stories of \"Reynard the Fox\", as well as various indigenous folk tales, such as the various Dick Whittington and Tom Thumb fables. Most of these were in verse, but some circulated in prose. These largely anonymous or folk compositions circulated as chapbooks.\n\nAlong with the figures mentioned above, the Restoration period saw the beginnings of explicitly political writing and hack writing. Roger L'Estrange was a pamphleteer who became the surveyor of presses and licenser of the press after the Restoration. In 1663–6, L'Estrange published \"The News\" (which was not regular in its appearance, see above). When he was implicated in the Popish Plot and fled England, he published \"The Observator\" (1681–1687) to attack Titus Oates and the Puritans. L'Estrange's most important contributions to literature, however, came with his translations. He translated Erasmus in 1680, Quevedo in 1668, and, most famously and importantly, Aesop's \"Fables\" in 1692 and 1699. This last set off a small craze for writing new fables, and particularly political fables.\n\nAlso during the later part of the period, Charles Gildon and Edmund Curll began their work on hireling \"Lives.\" Curll was a bookseller (what today would be called a publisher), and he paid authors to produce biographies, translations, and the like. Similarly, Gildon, who was an occasional friend of Restoration authors, produced biographies with wholesale inventions in them. This writing for pay was despised by the literary authors, who called it \"hack\" writing.\n\nThe return of the stage-struck Charles II to power in 1660 was a major event in English theatre history. As soon as the previous Puritan regime's ban on public stage representations was lifted, the drama recreated itself quickly and abundantly. Two theatre companies, the King's and the Duke's Company, were established in London, with two luxurious playhouses built to designs by Christopher Wren and fitted with moveable scenery and thunder and lightning machines.\n\nTraditionally, Restoration plays have been studied by genre rather than chronology, more or less as if they were all contemporary, but scholars today insist on the rapid evolvement of drama in the period and on the importance of social and political factors affecting it. (Unless otherwise indicated, the account below is based on Hume's influential \"Development of English Drama in the Late Seventeenth Century\", 1976.) The influence of theatre company competition and playhouse economics is also acknowledged, as is the significance of the appearance of the first professional actresses (see Howe).\n\nIn the 1660s and 1670s, the London scene was vitalised by the competition between the two patent companies. The need to rise to the challenges of the other house made playwrights and managers extremely responsive to public taste, and theatrical fashions fluctuated almost week by week. The mid-1670s were a high point of both quantity and quality, with John Dryden's \"Aureng-zebe\" (1675), William Wycherley's \"The Country Wife\" (1675) and \"The Plain Dealer\" (1676), George Etherege's \"The Man of Mode\" (1676), and Aphra Behn's \"The Rover\" (1677), all within a few seasons.\n\nFrom 1682 the production of new plays dropped sharply, affected both by a merger between the two companies and by the political turmoil of the Popish Plot (1678) and the Exclusion crisis (1682). The 1680s were especially lean years for comedy, the only exception being the remarkable career of Aphra Behn, whose achievement as the first professional British woman dramatist has been the subject of much recent study. There was a swing away from comedy to serious political drama, reflecting preoccupations and divisions following on the political crisis. The few comedies produced also tended to be political in focus, the whig dramatist Thomas Shadwell sparring with the tories John Dryden and Aphra Behn.\n\nIn the calmer times after 1688, Londoners were again ready to be amused by stage performance, but the single \"United Company\" was not well prepared to offer it. No longer powered by competition, the company had lost momentum and been taken over by predatory investors (\"Adventurers\"), while management in the form of the autocratic Christopher Rich attempted to finance a tangle of \"farmed\" shares and sleeping partners by slashing actors' salaries. The upshot of this mismanagement was that the disgruntled actors set up their own co-operative company in 1695. A few years of re-invigorated two-company competition followed which allowed a brief second flowering of the drama, especially comedy. Comedies like William Congreve's \"Love For Love\" (1695) and \"The Way of the World\" (1700), and John Vanbrugh's \"The Relapse\" (1696) and \"The Provoked Wife\" (1697) were \"softer\" and more middle class in ethos, very different from the aristocratic extravaganza twenty years earlier, and aimed at a wider audience. If \"Restoration literature\" is the literature that reflects and reflects upon the court of Charles II, Restoration drama arguably ends before Charles II's death, as the playhouse moved rapidly from the domain of courtiers to the domain of the city middle classes. On the other hand, Restoration drama shows altogether more fluidity and rapidity than other types of literature, and so, even more than in other types of literature, its movements should never be viewed as absolute. Each decade has brilliant exceptions to every rule and entirely forgettable confirmations of it.\n\nGenre in Restoration drama is peculiar. Authors labelled their works according to the old tags, \"comedy\" and \"drama\" and, especially, \"history\", but these plays defied the old categories. From 1660 onwards, new dramatic genres arose, mutated, and intermixed very rapidly. In tragedy, the leading style in the early Restoration period was the male-dominated heroic drama, exemplified by John Dryden's \"The Conquest of Granada\" (1670) and \"Aureng-Zebe\" (1675) which celebrated powerful, aggressively masculine heroes and their pursuit of glory both as rulers and conquerors, and as lovers. These plays were sometimes called by their authors' histories or tragedies, and contemporary critics will call them after Dryden's term of \"Heroic drama\". Heroic dramas centred on the actions of men of decisive natures, men whose physical and (sometimes) intellectual qualities made them natural leaders. In one sense, this was a reflection of an idealised king such as Charles or Charles's courtiers might have imagined. However, such dashing heroes were also seen by the audiences as occasionally standing in for noble rebels who would redress injustice with the sword. The plays were, however, tragic in the strictest definition, even though they were not necessarily sad.\n\nIn the 1670s and 1680s, a gradual shift occurred from heroic to pathetic tragedy, where the focus was on love and domestic concerns, even though the main characters might often be public figures. After the phenomenal success of Elizabeth Barry in moving the audience to tears in the role of Monimia in Thomas Otway's \"The Orphan\" (1680), \"she-tragedies\" (a term coined by Nicholas Rowe), which focused on the sufferings of an innocent and virtuous woman, became the dominant form of pathetic tragedy. Elizabeth Howe has argued that the most important explanation for the shift in taste was the emergence of tragic actresses whose popularity made it unavoidable for dramatists to create major roles for them. With the conjunction of the playwright \"master of pathos\" Thomas Otway and the great tragedienne Elizabeth Barry in \"The Orphan\", the focus shifted from hero to heroine. Prominent she-tragedies include John Banks's \"Virtue Betrayed, or, Anna Bullen\" (1682) (about the execution of Anne Boleyn), Thomas Southerne's \"The Fatal Marriage\" (1694), and Nicholas Rowe's \"The Fair Penitent\" (1703) and \"Lady Jane Grey\", 1715.\n\nWhile she-tragedies were more comfortably tragic, in that they showed women who suffered for no fault of their own and featured tragic flaws that were emotional rather than moral or intellectual, their success did not mean that more overtly political tragedy was not staged. The Exclusion crisis brought with it a number of tragic implications in real politics, and therefore any treatment of, for example, the Earl of Essex (several versions of which were circulated and briefly acted at non-patent theatres) could be read as seditious. Thomas Otway's \"Venice Preserv'd\" of 1682 was a royalist political play that, like Dryden's \"Absalom and Achitophel\", seemed to praise the king for his actions in the \"meal tub plot\". Otway's play had the floating city of Venice stand in for the river town of London, and it had the dark senatorial plotters of the play stand in for the Earl of Shaftesbury. It even managed to figure in the Duke of Monmouth, Charles's illegitimate, war-hero son who was favoured by many as Charles's successor over the Roman Catholic James. \"Venice Preserv'd\" is, in a sense, the perfect synthesis of the older politically royalist tragedies and histories of Dryden and the newer she-tragedies of feminine suffering, for, although the plot seems to be a political allegory, the action centres on a woman who cares for a man in conflict, and most of the scenes and dialogue concern her pitiable sufferings at his hands.\n\nRestoration comedy is notorious for its sexual explicitness, a quality encouraged by Charles II personally and by the rakish aristocratic ethos of his court. The best-known plays of the early Restoration period are the unsentimental or \"hard\" comedies of John Dryden, William Wycherley, and George Etherege, which reflect the atmosphere at Court, and celebrate an aristocratic macho lifestyle of unremitting sexual intrigue and conquest. The Earl of Rochester, real-life Restoration rake, courtier and poet, is flatteringly portrayed in Etherege's \"Man of Mode\" (1676) as a riotous, witty, intellectual, and sexually irresistible aristocrat, a template for posterity's idea of the glamorous Restoration rake (actually never a very common character in Restoration comedy). Wycherley's \"The Plain Dealer\" (1676), a variation on the theme of Molière's \"Le misanthrope\", was highly regarded for its uncompromising satire and earned Wycherley the appellation \"Plain Dealer\" Wycherley or \"Manly\" Wycherley, after the play's main character Manly. The single writer who most supports the charge of obscenity levelled then and now at Restoration comedy is probably Wycherley.\n\nDuring the second wave of Restoration comedy in the 1690s, the \"softer\" comedies of William Congreve and John Vanbrugh reflected mutating cultural perceptions and great social change. The playwrights of the 1690s set out to appeal to more socially mixed audiences with a strong middle-class element, and to female spectators, for instance by moving the war between the sexes from the arena of intrigue into that of marriage. The focus in comedy is less on young lovers outwitting the older generation, more on marital relations after the wedding bells. In Congreve's plays, the give-and-take set pieces of couples still testing their attraction for each other have mutated into witty prenuptial debates on the eve of marriage, as in the famous \"Proviso\" scene in \"The Way of the World\" (1700).\n\nRestoration drama had a bad reputation for three centuries. The \"incongruous\" mixing of comedy and tragedy beloved by Restoration audiences was decried. The Victorians denounced the comedy as too indecent for the stage, and the standard reference work of the early 20th century, \"The Cambridge History of English and American Literature\", dismissed the tragedy as being of \"a level of dulness and lubricity never surpassed before or since\". Today, the Restoration total theatre experience is again valued, both by postmodern literary critics and on the stage.\n\nThe Restoration spectacular, or elaborately staged \"machine play\", hit the London public stage in the late 17th-century Restoration period, enthralling audiences with action, music, dance, moveable scenery, baroque illusionistic painting, gorgeous costumes, and special effects such as trapdoor tricks, \"flying\" actors, and fireworks. From the start, these shows had ill reputations as vulgar and commercial threats to the witty, \"legitimate\" Restoration dramas. They drew Londoners in unprecedented numbers, however, and left them dazzled and delighted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952474", "title": "Live at the Kings Head Inn", "text": "Live at the Kings Head Inn\n\nLive at the King's Head Inn is Avail's first live album, released on Old Glory Records in 1994 on 10\" Vinyl and reissued by Jade Tree Records in 2006 as bonus tracks to the Dixie album reissue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952482", "title": "ICC World Cup Qualifier", "text": "ICC World Cup Qualifier\n\nThe ICC World Cup Qualifier (previously called the ICC Trophy) is a One-Day International (ODI) cricket tournament that serves as the culmination of the qualifying process for the Cricket World Cup. It is usually played in the year before the World Cup.\n\nAt every World Cup, a set number of teams qualify automatically, with other teams having to qualify through a process that has the World Cup Qualifier as its culmination. Until recently, automatic qualification was granted to all full members of the International Cricket Council (ICC). However, for the 2019 Cricket World Cup, only the top eight teams in the ICC ODI Championship were given automatic qualification, meaning ICC full members played in the Qualifier for the first time. The other places in the Qualifier are given to the best teams in the World Cricket League, which has been in operation since 2007. The number of World Cup berths determined by the Qualifier currently stands at two; in the past, it has ranged from one (1982–1990) to five (2005).\n\nIn September 2018, the ICC confirmed that all matches in the ICC World Cup Qualifier will have ODI status, regardless if a team does not have ODI status prior to the start of an individual tournament event.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952487", "title": "WMDO-CD", "text": "WMDO-CD\n\nWMDO-CD, virtual channel 47 (UHF digital channel 44), is a low-powered, Class A UniMás-affiliated television station licensed to the American capital city of Washington, District of Columbia. Owned by Entravision Communications, it is a sister station to Silver Spring, Maryland-licensed SonLife Broadcasting Network affiliate WJAL (channel 68); Entravision also operates Arlington, Virginia-licensed Univision-owned station WFDC-DT (channel 14) under a local marketing agreement (LMA) with the Univision Local Media subsidiary of Univision Communications. The three stations share studios on Constitution Avenue near the Capitol Building; WMDO-CD shares transmitter facilities with Jewelry Television affiliate WIAV-CD (channel 58) in the Tenleytown section of Washington's northwest quadrant.\n\nWMDO-CD's over-the-air signal is very weak, but the station is carried on many cable systems throughout the market, including Maryland, Virginia and southern Delaware.\n\nThe station first signed on the air as W14AA on UHF channel 14 in 1976. First owned by Central Virginia Educational Television Corporation, it rebroadcast the signal of PBS member station WNVT from a transmitter in Arlington, Virginia. WNVT's transmitter was located in Independent Hill, Virginia and was difficult to receive in the built-up parts of the Washington metropolitan area. \n\nAs Washington's original channel 14, WFAN-TV, had gone dark in 1972, CVETC attempted to have the vacant full-power allocation moved to Fairfax. This request was denied; in 1980, it began building what was to become WNVC on channel 56 instead, and W14AA was no longer necessary. CVETC used the translator to broadcast Congressional hearings until WNVC went on the air June 6, 1981.\n\nLos Cerezos Television Co. signed on station KA2XEH on channel 56 on June 29, 1980. The station relayed the programming of the Spanish International Network (SIN, as Univision was then known) via a satellite feed of flagship KWEX-TV in San Antonio, Texas. At the time, television translators were limited to the same rules as commercial FM translators and could only repeat a station's signal received over-the-air. As part of an FCC trial, SIN signed on two of these \"satellators\" under experimental licenses, denoted by the \"2X\" in the callsign. With the FCC's rules relaxed, Los Cerezos purchased W14AA in July 1981. After two failed attempts to move the station to Wheaton, Maryland, SIN programming was on the air by March 1983. The license for KA2XEH was deleted effective October 1, 1981, as its channel 56 allocation had been given to WNVC.\n\nOn November 1, 1988, W14AA moved to channel 48 and changed its callsign to W48AW. The call letters were changed to WMDO-LP on February 1, 1995. In October 1998, WMDO-LP moved to channel 30, in order to allow NBC owned-and-operated station WRC-TV to launch its digital signal on channel 48. On March 20, 2001, the station changed its call letters to WMDO-CA to reflect an upgrade to Class A status.\n\nThe WMDO callsign derives not from a former or planned affiliation with the competing Telemundo television network, but from co-ownership by Los Cerezos with WMDO radio (1540 AM, now WACA). The pair was broken up in 1999, when the television station was sold to Entravision.\n\nIn November 2003, the station moved to channel 47 so that WNVT could sign on its digital signal on channel 30. WMDO's history of being shuffled around to different channels is not uncommon, since the FCC requires that low-power stations switch channels if a full-power station wishes to use their channel allocation.\n\nOn January 1, 2006, Entravision entered into a 16-year joint sales agreement (JSA) with Univision Communications, owner of then-TeleFutura affiliate WFDC-DT (channel 14). Under the agreement, the Univision affiliation for the Washington market was passed to WFDC in return for Entravision handling its operation and advertising sales. WMDO-CD joined TeleFutura (since renamed to UniMás) on the same day. The station is to remain the market's UniMás affiliate until the agreement's expiration on December 31, 2021, and it automatically regains the Univision affiliation if the agreement expires or is terminated.\n\nIn the summer of 2009, WMDO-LD began broadcasting a digital signal on VHF channel 8. This signal was nearly unusable as it received interference from WJLA-TV on channel 7, WUSA on channel 9, and distant station WGAL on channel 8. WMDO was forced to accept the interference as there were no other available channels in the area. In March 2011, WMDO filed to move to channel 22; Daystar was to use the channel for WDDN-LD, but accidentally allowed the construction permit to lapse in September 2010. After a legal fight with Daystar over the allocation, on May 22, 2015, the station was licensed to move to channel 22, and it changed its call sign to the current WMDO-CD.\n\nWMDO-CD was a winner in the FCC's 2016–17 spectrum reallocation auction, and received $58,231,415 to go off the air. Winners in the auction who were to leave the air had the option of pursuing a channel-sharing agreement with another station to preserve over-the-air coverage. WMDO-CD reached an agreement with WIAV-CD. The station suspended operations over its own signal on channel 22 and moved to WIAV-CD's signal on channel 44 on December 1, 2017.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\n"}
{"id": "1952495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952495", "title": "Deinocheirus", "text": "Deinocheirus\n\nDeinocheirus ( ) is a genus of large ornithomimosaur that lived during the Late Cretaceous around 70 million years ago. In 1965, a pair of large arms, shoulder girdles, and a few other bones of a new dinosaur were first discovered in the Nemegt Formation of Mongolia. In 1970, this specimen became the holotype of the only species within the genus, Deinocheirus mirificus; the genus name is Greek for \"horrible hand\". No further remains were discovered for almost fifty years, and its nature remained a mystery. Two more complete specimens were described in 2014, which shed light on many aspects of the animal. Parts of these new specimens had been looted from Mongolia some years before, but were repatriated in 2014.\n\n\"Deinocheirus\" was an unusual ornithomimosaur, the largest of the clade at long, and weighing . Though it was a bulky animal, it had many hollow bones which saved weight. The arms were among the largest of any bipedal dinosaur at long, with large, blunt claws on its three-fingered hands. The legs were relatively short, and bore blunt claws. Its vertebrae had tall neural spines that formed a \"sail\" along its back. Most of the vertebrae and some other bones were highly pneumatised by invading air sacs. The tail ended in pygostyle-like vertebrae, which indicate the presence of a fan of feathers. The skull was long, with a wide bill and a deep lower jaw, similar to those of hadrosaurs.\n\nThe classification of \"Deinocheirus\" was long uncertain, and it was initially placed in the theropod group Carnosauria, but similarities with ornithomimosaurians were soon noted. After more complete remains were found, \"Deinocheirus\" was shown to be a primitive ornithomimosaurian, most closely related to the smaller genera \"Garudimimus\" and \"Beishanlong\", together forming the family Deinocheiridae. Members of this group were not adapted for speed, unlike other ornithomimosaurs. \"Deinocheirus\" is thought to have been omnivorous; its skull shape indicates a diet of plants, fish scales were found in association with one specimen and gastroliths were also present in the stomach region of the specimen. The large claws may have been used for digging and gathering plants. Bite marks on \"Deinocheirus\" bones have been attributed to the tyrannosaurid \"Tarbosaurus\".\n\nThe first known fossil remains of \"Deinocheirus\" were discovered by Polish palaeontologist Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska on July 9, 1965, at the \"Altan Ula III\" site (coordinates: ) in the Nemegt Basin of the Gobi Desert. She was part of a Polish group accompanied by Mongolian palaeontologist Rinchen Barsbold during the 1963–1965 Polish-Mongolian palaeontological expeditions, which were organised by the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Mongolian Academy of Sciences. The crew spent July 9–11 excavating the specimen and loading it onto a vehicle. A 1968 report by Kielan-Jaworowska and Naydin Dovchin, which summarised the accomplishments of the expeditions, announced that the remains represented a new family of theropod dinosaur. The specimen was discovered on a small hill in sandstone, and consists of a partial, disarticulated skeleton, most parts of which had probably eroded away at the time of discovery. The specimen consisted of both forelimbs, excluding the claws of the right hand, the complete shoulder girdle, centra of three dorsal vertebrae, five ribs, gastralia (belly ribs), and two ceratobranchialia. The specimen was made the holotype of \"Deinocheirus mirificus\", named by Halszka Osmólska and Ewa Roniewicz in 1970. The generic name is derived from Greek \"deinos\" (δεινός), meaning \"horrible\", and \"cheir\" (χείρ), meaning \"hand\", due to the size and strong claws of the forelimbs. The specific name comes from Latin and means \"unusual\" or \"peculiar\", chosen for the unusual structure of the forelimbs. The Polish-Mongolian expeditions were notable for being led by women, among the first to name new dinosaurs. The original specimen number of the holotype was ZPal MgD-I/6, but it has since been re-catalogued as MPC-D 100/18.\n\nThe paucity of known \"Deinocheirus\" remains inhibited a thorough understanding of the animal for almost half a century onwards, and the scientific literature often described it as among the most \"enigmatic\", \"mysterious\", and \"bizarre\" of dinosaurs. The holotype arms became part of a traveling exhibit of Mongolian dinosaur fossils, touring various countries. In 2012, Phil R. Bell, Philip J. Currie, and Yuong-Nam Lee announced the discovery of additional elements of the holotype specimen, including fragments of gastralia, found by a Korean-Mongolian team which re-located the original quarry in 2008. Bite marks on two gastralia were identified as belonging to \"Tarbosaurus\", and it was proposed that this accounted for the scattered, disassociated state of the holotype specimen.\n\nIn 2013, the discovery of two new \"Deinocheirus\" specimens was announced before the annual Society of Vertebrate Paleontology (SVP) conference by Lee, Barsbold, Currie, and colleagues. Housed at the Mongolian Academy of Sciences, these two headless individuals were given the specimen numbers MPC-D 100/127 and MPC-D 100/128. MPC-D 100/128, a subadult specimen, was found by scientists in the \"Altan Ula IV\" locality (coordinates: ) of the Nemegt Formation during the Korea-Mongolia International Dinosaur Expedition in 2006, but had already been damaged by fossil poachers. The second specimen, MPC-D 100/127, was found by scientists in the \"Bugiin Tsav\" locality (coordinates: ) in 2009. It is slightly larger than the holotype, and it could be clearly identified as \"Deinocheirus\" by its left forelimb, and therefore helped identify the earlier collected specimen as \"Deinocheirus\". The specimen had also been excavated by poachers, who had removed the skull, hands and feet, but left behind a single toe bone. It had probably been looted after 2002, based on money left in the quarry. Skulls, claw bones and teeth are often selectively targeted by poachers on the expense of the rest of the skeletons (which are often vandalized), due to their saleability. Currie stated in an interview that it was a policy of their team to investigate quarries after they had been looted and recover anything of significance, and that finding any new \"Deinocheirus\" fossils was cause for celebration, even without the poached parts. A virtual model of \"Deinocheirus\" revealed at the SVP presentation brought applause from the crowd of attending palaeontologists, and the American palaeontologist Stephen L. Brusatte stated he had never been as surprised by a SVP talk, though new fossils are routinely presented at the conference.\n\nAfter the new specimens were announced, it was rumoured that a looted skull had found its way to a European museum through the black market. The poached elements were spotted in a private European collection by the French fossil trader François Escuillé, who notified Belgian palaeontologist Pascal Godefroit about them in 2011. They suspected the remains belonged to \"Deinocheirus\", and contacted the Korean-Mongolian team. Escuillé subsequently acquired the fossils and donated them to the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences. The recovered material consisted of a skull, a left hand, and feet, which had been collected in Mongolia, sold to a Japanese buyer, and resold to a German party. The team concluded that these elements belonged to specimen MPC-D 100/127, as the single leftover toe bone fit perfectly into the unprepared matrix of a poached foot, the bone and matrix matched in colour, and because the elements belonged to an individual of the same size, with no overlap in skeletal elements. On May 1, 2014, the fossils were repatriated to Mongolia by a delegation from the Belgian Museum, during a ceremony held at the Mongolian Academy of Sciences. The reunited skeleton was deposited at the Central Museum of Mongolian Dinosaurs in Ulaanbaatar, along with a \"Tarbosaurus\" skeleton which had also been brought back after being stolen. American palaeontologist Thomas R. Holtz stated in an interview that the new \"Deinocheirus\" remains looked like the \"product of a secret love affair between a hadrosaur and \"Gallimimus\"\".\n\nCombined with the poached elements, both new specimens represent almost the entire skeleton of \"Deinocheirus\", as MPC-D 100/127 includes all material apart from the middle dorsal vertebrae, most caudal vertebrae, and the right forelimb; MPC-D 100/128 fills in most gaps of the other skeleton, with nearly all dorsal and caudal vertebrae, the ilium, a partial ischium, and most of the left hindlimb. In 2014, the specimens were described in the \"Nature\" journal by Lee, Barsbold, Currie, Yoshitsugu Kobayashi, Hang-Jae Lee Lee, Godefroit, Escuillié, and Tsogtbaatar Chinzorig. A similar series of events was reported earlier in 2014 with \"Spinosaurus\", another sail-backed theropod which had only been known from few remains since 1912. Poached remains were reunited with specimens obtained by scientists, and \"Spinosaurus\" was shown to have been quite different from other spinosaurids. The two cases showed that the lifestyle and appearance of incompletely known extinct animals cannot always be safely inferred from close relatives. By 2017, the Mongolian government had increased its effort to seize poached fossils from collectors and repatriate them, but proving their provenance had become a scientific and political concern. Therefore, a study tested the possibility of identifying poached fossils by geochemical methods, using \"Deinocheirus\" and other Nemegt dinosaurs as examples. In 2018, numerous large, tridactyl (three-toed) tracks were reported from the Nemegt locality (discovered in 2007 alongside sauropod tracks). Though the tracks were similar to those of hadrosaurs, no tracks of hadrosaur hands were identified, and since the feet of \"Deinocheirus\" are now known to have been similar to those of hadrosaurs, it cannot be ruled out that the tracks were made by this genus.\n\n\"Deinocheirus\" is the largest ornithomimosaurian (ostrich dinosaur) discovered; the largest known specimen measured about long, with an estimated weight of , and an estimated hip height of . The two other known specimens are smaller, the holotype being 94% as big while the smallest, a subadult, only 74% as big. When only the incomplete holotype arms were known, various sizes were extrapolated from them by different methods. A 2010 study estimated the hip height of \"Deinocheirus\" to be . The weight had previously been estimated between to . Enormous sizes were also suggested by comparing the arms with those of tyrannosaurs, even though members of that group did not have large arms in proportion to their body size.\n\nThe only known skull, belonging to the largest specimen, measures from the premaxilla at the front to the back of the occipital condyle. The widest part of the skull behind the eyes is only wide in comparison. The skull was similar to those of other ornithomimosaurs in being low and narrow, but differed in that the snout was more elongated. The skull bone walls were rather thin, about . It had a rounded, flattened beak, which would have been covered by keratin in life. The nostrils were turned upwards, and the nasal bone was a narrow strap that extended up above the eye sockets. The outer diameter of the sclerotic rings in the eyes was small, , compared to the size of the skull. The lower temporal fenestrae, openings behind the eyes, were partially closed off by the jugal bones, similar to \"Gallimimus\". The jaws were toothless and down-turned, and the lower jaw was very massive and deep compared to the slender and low upper jaw. The relative size of the lower jaw was closer to that of tyrannosaurids than to other ornithomimosaurs. The snout was spatulate (flared outwards to the sides) and wide, which is wider than the skull roof. This shape was similar to the snout of duck-billed hadrosaurids.\n\n\"Deinocheirus\" and \"Therizinosaurus\" possessed the longest forelimbs known for any bipedal dinosaurs. The holotype forelimbs measure long — the humerus (upper arm bone) is , the ulna , and the hand is — including the long recurved claws. Each scapulocoracoid of the shoulder girdle has a length of . Each half of the paired ceratobranchialia measure . The shoulder-blade was long and narrow, and the deltopectoralis crest was pronounced and triangular. The upper arm (humerus) was relatively slender, and only slightly longer than the hand. The ulna and radius (lower arm bones) were elongate and not firmly connected to each other in a syndesmosis. The metacarpus was long compared to the fingers. The three fingers were about equal in length, the first being the stoutest and the second the longest. Various rough areas and impressions on the forelimbs indicate the presence of powerful muscles. Most articular surfaces of the arm bones were deeply furrowed, indicating that the animal had thick pads of cartilage between the joints. Though the arms of \"Deinocheirus\" were large, the ratio between them and the shoulder girdle was less than that of the smaller ornithomimosaur \"Ornithomimus\". The arm bones of \"Deinocheirus\" were similar in proportions to those of the small theropod \"Compsognathus\". The wishbone (furcula), an element not known from any other ornithomimosaurs, was U-shaped. The hindlimbs were relatively short, and the thigh bone (femur) was longer than the shin bone (tibia), as is common for large animals. The metatarsus was short and not arctometatarsalian, as in most other theropods. The claw bones of the feet were blunt and broad-tipped instead of tapered, unlike other theropods, but resembled the unguals of large ornithischian dinosaurs. The proportions of the toe bones resembled those of tyrannosaurs, due to the large weight they had to bear.\n\nThough \"Deinocheirus\" was a bulky animal, its dorsal ribs were tall and relatively straight, indicating that the body was narrow. The ten neck vertebrae were low and long, and progressively shorter backwards from the skull. This resulted in a more S-curved neck than seen in other ornithomimosaurs, due to the larger skull. The neural spines of the twelve back vertebrae became increasingly longer from front to back, the last one being 8.5 times the height of the centrum part. This is almost the same as the highest ratio in the neural spines of the theropod \"Spinosaurus\". The neural spines had a system of interconnecting ligaments, which stiffened the vertebral column allowing it to support the abdomen while transmitting the stress to the hips and hindlimbs. Together, the neural spines formed a tall \"sail\" along the lower back, hips, and base of the tail, somewhat similar to that of \"Spinosaurus\".\n\nAll the vertebrae were highly pneumatised by invading air sacs, except for the atlas bone and the hindmost tail vertebrae, and were thereby connected to the respiratory system. The back vertebrae were as pneumatised as those of sauropod dinosaurs, and had an extensive system of depressions. These adaptations may be correlated with gigantism, as they reduce weight. The six vertebrae of the sacrum were also tall and pneumatised, and all but the first one were fused together at the top, their neural spines forming a neural plate. The ilium, the top hip bone, was also partially pneumatised close to the sacral vertebrae. Part of the pelvis was hypertrophied (enlarged) compared to other ornithomimosaurs, to support the weight of the animal with strong muscle attachments. The front hip bones tilted upwards in life. The tail of \"Deinocheirus\" ended in at least two fused vertebrae, which were described as similar to the pygostyle of oviraptorosaurian and therizinosauroid theropods. Ornithomimosaurs are known to have had pennaceous feathers, so this feature suggests that they might have had a fan of feathers at the tail end.\n\nWhen \"Deinocheirus\" was only known from the original forelimbs, its taxonomic relationship was difficult to determine, and several hypotheses were proposed. Osmólska and Roniewicz initially concluded that \"Deinocheirus\" did not belong in any already named theropod family, so they created a new, monotypic family Deinocheiridae, placed in the infraorder Carnosauria. This was due to the large size and thick-walled limb bones, but they also found some similarities with \"Ornithomimus\", and, to a lesser extent, \"Allosaurus\". In 1971, John Ostrom first proposed that \"Deinocheirus\" belonged with the Ornithomimosauria, while noting that it contained both ornithomimosaurian and non-ornithomimosaurian characters. In 1976, Rhinchen Barsbold named the order Deinocheirosauria, which was to include the supposedly related genera \"Deinocheirus\" and \"Therizinosaurus\". A relationship between \"Deinocheirus\" and the long-armed therizinosaurs was supported by some later writers, but they are not considered to be closely related today.\n\nIn 2004, Peter Makovicky, Kobayashi and Currie pointed out that \"Deinocheirus\" was likely a primitive ornithomimosaurian, since it lacked some of the features typical of the Ornithomimidae family. Primitive traits include its recurved claws, the low humerus-to-scapula ratio, and the lack of a syndesmosis. A 2006 study by Kobayashi and Barsbold found \"Deinocheirus\" to be possibly the most primitive ornithomimosaur, but was unable to further resolve its affinities, due to the lack of skull and hindlimb elements. A cladistic analysis accompanying the 2014 description of the two much more complete specimens found that \"Deinocheirus\" formed a clade with \"Garudimimus\" and \"Beishanlong\", which were therefore included in the Deinocheiridae. The resulting cladogram follows below:\n\nThe 2014 study defined Deinocheiridae as a clade including all taxa with a more recent common ancestor with \"Deinocheirus mirificus\" than with \"Ornithomimus velox\". The three members share various anatomical features in the limbs. The 2014 cladogram suggested that ornithomimosaurians diverged into two major lineages in the Early Cretaceous: Deinocheiridae and Ornithomimidae. Unlike other ornithomimosaurians, deinocheirids were not built for running. The anatomical peculiarities of \"Deinocheirus\" when compared to other, much smaller ornithomimosaurs, can largely be explained by its much larger size and weight. Deinocheirids and the smaller ornithomimids did not have teeth, unlike more primitive ornithomimosaurs. In 2020, the deinocheirid \"Paraxenisaurus\" from Mexico was named, making it the first member of the group known from North America. Its describers suggested deinocheirids originated in Laurasia (the northern supercontinent of the time) or that they dispersed across polar regions in the Northern Hemisphere, and a similar interchange is also known to have occurred in other dinosaur groups with Asian affinities during the Campanian-Maastrichtian ages. This study also found \"Harpymimus\" to be a basal deinicheirid, while placing \"Beishanlong\" just outside the group, as a basal ornithomimosaur.\n\nThe blunt and short hand-claws of \"Deinocheirus\" were similar to those of the therizinosaur \"Alxasaurus\", which indicates the long arms and claws were used for digging and gathering plants. The blunt claws of the feet could have helped the animal from sinking into substrate when wading. The robust hind limbs and hip region indicates the animal moved slowly. The large size of the animal may have helped it against predators such as \"Tarbosaurus\", but in turn it lost the running ability of other ornithomimosaurs. The long neural spines and possible tail fan may have been used for display behaviour. \"Deinocheirus\" was likely diurnal (active during the day), since the sclerotic rings of the eyes were relatively small in comparison with its skull length. The hand had good mobility relative to the lower arm, but was capable of only a limited flexing motion, unable to close in grasping.\n\nThe brain of \"Deinocheirus\" was reconstructed through CT scans and presented at the 2014 Society of Vertebrate Palaeontology conference. The brain was globular and similar in shape to that of birds and troodontid theropods, the cerebrum was expanded in a way similar to most theropods, and the olfactory tracts were relatively large. The brain was proportionally small and compact, and its Reptile Encephalisation Quotient (brain-body ratio) was estimated at 0.69, which is low for theropods, and similar to sauropods. Other ornithomimosaurs have proportionally large brains, and the small brain of \"Deinocheirus\" may reflect its social behaviour or diet. Its coordination and balance would not have been as important as for carnivorous theropods. In 2015, Akinobu Watanabe and colleagues found that together with \"Archaeornithomimus\" and \"Gallimimus\", \"Deinocheirus\" had the most pneumatised skeleton among ornithomimosaurs. Pneumatisation is thought to be advantageous for flight in modern birds, but its function in non-avian dinosaurs is not known with certainty. It has been proposed that pneumatisation was used to reduce the mass of large bones (associated with gigantic size in the case of \"Deinocheirus\"), that it was related to high metabolism, balance during locomotion, or used for thermoregulation.\n\nA bone microstructure study presented at the European Association of Vertebrate Palaeontologists in 2015 showed that \"Deinocheirus\" probably had a high metabolic rate, and grew rapidly before reaching sexual maturity. A histological study of a gastralia fragment from the holotype presented at a 2018 conference showed that its internal structure was similar to that of ossified tendons of other theropods. The osteons contained possible canaliculi, which would be the first known occurrence of such structures in a basal ornithomimosaur. The structure of the periosteum and lack of growth arrest lines suggests that the holotype was a fully grown adult.\n\nThe distinct shape of the skull shows that \"Deinocheirus\" had a more specialised diet than other ornithomimosaurs. The beak was similar to that of ducks, which indicates it may have likewise foraged in water, or browsed near the ground like some sauropods and hadrosaurs. The attachment sites for the muscles that open and close the jaws were very small in comparison to the size of the skull, which indicates \"Deinocheirus\" had a weak bite force. The skull was likely adapted for cropping soft understorey or water vegetation. The depth of the lower jaw indicates the presence of a large tongue, which could have assisted the animal in sucking in food material obtained with the broad beak when foraging on the bottom of freshwater bodies.\n\nMore than 1,400 gastroliths (stomach stones, 8 to 87mm in size) were found among the ribs and gastralia of specimen MPC-D100/127. The ratio of gastrolith mass to total weight, 0.0022, supports the theory that these gastroliths helped the toothless animals in grinding their food. Features such as the presence of a beak and a U-shaped, downturned jaw, are indicators of facultative (optional) herbivory among coelurosaurian theropods. In spite of these features, fish vertebrae and scales were also found among the gastroliths, which suggests that it was an omnivore. Ornithomimosaurs in general are thought to have fed on both plants and small animals.\n\nVarious feeding behaviours were proposed before more complete remains of \"Deinocheirus\" were known, and it was early on envisioned as a predatory, allosaur-like animal with giant arms. In their original description, Osmólska and Roniewicz found that the hands of \"Deinocheirus\" were unsuited for grasping, but could instead have been used to tear prey apart. In 1970, the Russian paleontologist Anatoly Konstantinovich Rozhdestvensky compared the forelimbs of \"Deinocheirus\" to sloths, leading him to hypothesise that \"Deinocheirus\" was a specialised climbing dinosaur, that fed on plants and animals found in trees. In 1988, Gregory S. Paul instead suggested that the claws were too blunt for predatory purposes, but would have been good defensive weapons. While attempting to determine the ecological niches for \"Deinocheirus\" and \"Therizinosaurus\" in 2010, Phil Senter and James H. Robins suggested that \"Deinocheirus\" had the largest vertical feeding range due to its hip height, and specialised in eating high foliage. In 2017, it was suggested that the claws of \"Deinocheirus\" were adapted for pulling large quantities of herbaceous plants out of water, and to decrease the resistance of water.\n\nOsmólska and Roniewicz reported palaeopathologies in the holotype specimen such as abnormal pits, grooves and tubercles on the first and second phalanx of the left second finger that may have been the result of injuries to the joint between the two bones. The damage may have caused changes to the arrangement of ligaments of muscles. The two coracoids are also differently developed. A rib of specimen MPC-D 100/127 shows a healed trauma which has remodelled the bone. In 2012, bite marks on two gastralia of the holotype specimen were reported. The size and shape of the bite marks match the teeth of \"Tarbosaurus\", the largest known predator from the Nemegt Formation. Various types of feeding traces were identified; punctures, gouges, striae, fragmentary teeth, and combinations of the above marks. The bite marks probably represent feeding behaviour instead of aggression between the species, and the fact that bite marks were not found elsewhere on the body indicates the predator focused on internal organs. \"Tarbosaurus\" bite marks have also been identified on hadrosaur and sauropod fossils, but theropod bite marks on bones of other theropods are very rare in the fossil record.\n\nThe three known \"Deinocheirus\" specimens were recovered from the Nemegt Formation in the Gobi Desert of southern Mongolia. This geologic formation has never been dated radiometrically, but the fauna present in the fossil record indicate it was probably deposited during the early Maastrichtian age, at the end of the Late Cretaceous about 70 million years ago. The rock facies of the Nemegt Formation suggest the presence of stream and river channels, mudflats, and shallow lakes. Such large river channels and soil deposits are evidence of a far more humid climate than those found in the older Barun Goyot and Djadochta formations. However, caliche deposits indicate at least periodic droughts occurred. Sediment was deposited in the channels and floodplains of large rivers.\n\n\"Deinocheirus\" is thought to have been widely distributed within the Nemegt Formation, as the only three specimens found have been apart. The river systems of the Nemegt Formation provided a suitable niche for \"Deinocheirus\" with its omnivorous habits. The environment was similar to the Okavango Delta of present-day Botswana. Within this ecosystem, \"Deinocheirus\" would have eaten plants and small animals, including fish. It may have competed for trees with other large herbivorous dinosaurs such as the long-necked theropod \"Therizinosaurus\", various titanosaurian sauropods, and the smaller hadrosaurid \"Saurolophus\". \"Deinocheirus\" may have competed with those herbivores for higher foliage such as trees, but was also able to feed on material that they could not. Along with \"Deinocheirus\", the discoveries of \"Therizinosaurus\" and \"Gigantoraptor\" show that three groups of herbivorous theropods (ornithomimosaurs, therizinosaurs and oviraptorosaurs), independently reached their maximum sizes in the late Cretaceous of Asia.\n\nThe habitats in and around the Nemegt rivers where \"Deinocheirus\" lived provided a home for a wide array of organisms. Occasional mollusc fossils are found, as well as a variety of other aquatic animals like fish and turtles, and the crocodylomorph \"Shamosuchus\". Mammal fossils are rare in the Nemegt Formation, but many birds have been found, including the enantiornithine \"Gurilynia\", the hesperornithiform \"Judinornis\", as well as \"Teviornis\", a possible Anseriform. Herbivorous dinosaurs of the Nemegt Formation include ankylosaurids such as \"Tarchia\", the pachycephalosaurian \"Prenocephale\", large hadrosaurids such as \"Saurolophus\" and \"Barsboldia\", and sauropods such as \"Nemegtosaurus\", and \"Opisthocoelicaudia\". Predatory theropods that lived alongside \"Deinocheirus\" include tyrannosauroids such as \"Tarbosaurus\", \"Alioramus\", and \"Bagaraatan\", and troodontids such as \"Borogovia\", \"Tochisaurus\", and \"Zanabazar\". Theropod groups with both omnivorous and herbivorous members include therizinosaurs, such as \"Therizinosaurus\", oviraptorosaurians, such as \"Elmisaurus\", \"Nemegtomaia\", and \"Rinchenia\", and other ornithomimosaurians, such as \"Anserimimus\" and \"Gallimimus\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952496", "title": "Fluxgate compass", "text": "Fluxgate compass\n\nThe basic fluxgate compass is a simple electromagnetic device that employs two or more small coils of wire around a core of highly permeable magnetic material, to directly sense the direction of the horizontal component of the Earth's magnetic field. The advantages of this mechanism over a magnetic compass are that the reading is in electronic form and can be digitised and transmitted easily, displayed remotely, and used by an electronic autopilot for course correction.\n\nTo avoid inaccuracies created by the vertical component of the field, the fluxgate array must be kept as flat as possible by mounting it on gimbals or using a fluid suspension system. All the same, inertial errors are inevitable when the vessel is turning sharply or being tossed about by rough seas. To ensure directional readings that are adequately stable, marine fluxgate compasses always incorporate either fluid or electronic damping. An alternative is to use a 3-axis fluxgate magnetometer to provide a 3D flux vector, with the magnetic heading derived from the flux on a plane perpendicular to gravity, thus providing immunity from pitching and rolling.\n\nFluxgate compasses and gyrocompasses complement one another nicely. The fluxgate provides a directional reference that is stable over the long term, apart from changing magnetic disturbances, and the gyrocompass is accurate over the short term, even against acceleration and heeling effects. At high latitudes, where the Earth's magnetic field dips downward toward the magnetic poles, the gyro data can be used to correct for roll-induced heading errors in the fluxgate output. It can also be used to correct for the roll- and heel-induced errors that often plague fluxgate compasses installed on steel vessels.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952507", "title": "List of mayors of Rochester, Minnesota", "text": "List of mayors of Rochester, Minnesota\n\nPeople who have served as mayor of Rochester, Minnesota.\n\nImages of America Rochester, MN by Ted St. Mane\n"}
{"id": "1952508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952508", "title": "List of songs about Detroit", "text": "List of songs about Detroit\n\nThis list of songs about Detroit contains any songs about or involving the city of Detroit.\n\nDoctor Detroit by Devo\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952509", "title": "Gene Gotti", "text": "Gene Gotti\n\nEugene Gotti (born 1946) is a former American New York mobster with the Gambino crime family who was a major drug trafficker.\n\nGotti was born to John and Fannie Gotti, Gene has four brothers: John Gotti, Peter Gotti, Richard V. Gotti, and Vincent Gotti. All the brothers grew up in East New York, Brooklyn and became involved with organized crime. Gotti was said by John Cummings and Ernest Volkman in Goombata, \"He was noted for his inability to comprehend even the simplest statement addressed to him, and people dealing with him learned to speak slowly and repeatedly.\" He attended Franklin K. Lane High School with the other Gotti brothers. Gotti has a wife, Rosalie, and three children and 8 grandchildren; his family home is in Valley Stream, New York.\n\nAround 1966, Gotti became an associate with the Gambino family. In 1969, Gotti was convicted of theft from an interstate shipment and was sent to federal prison for three months. In 1973, Gotti was convicted in state court of illegal possession of a firearm and was sentenced to 18 months in state prison.\n\nGene became a made man in 1976, working with his brother, John, in his South Ozone Park crew.\n\nGotti carried out truck hijackings at Idlewild Airport (subsequently renamed John F. Kennedy International Airport) together with his brother John and friend Angelo Ruggiero. In August 1983, Ruggiero and Gotti were arrested for dealing heroin, based primarily on recordings from a bug in Ruggiero's house. Boss Paul Castellano, who had banned made men from his family from dealing drugs under threat of death, demanded transcripts of the tapes, and, when Ruggiero refused, threatened to demote his brother John.\n\nOn March 13, 1987, Gene Gotti and brother John, were acquitted on federal racketeering charges involving illegal gambling, murder and other charges.\n\nOn May 24, 1989, after two mistrials, Gene was convicted of running a multimillion-dollar heroin smuggling ring. The first mistrial was for jury tampering, and the second mistrial was a hung jury. Two jurors were dismissed from the third trial, including an alternate who said he received a threatening visit from two men.\n\nOn July 8, 1989, Gene was sentenced to 50 years in federal prison. After his sentencing, the Gambino family demoted Gene from capo to soldier because he was in prison.\n\nGene Gotti was imprisoned at the Federal Correctional Institution, Pollock, in Pollock, Louisiana, from 1989 to 2018.\n\nGene was released on September 14, 2018, when he was 71 years old, after serving 29 years of his sentence. He declined to leave prison before completing his entire sentence.\n\nGene Gotti is portrayed by actor Scott Cohen in the 1996 HBO television movie \"Gotti\".\nHe was played by actor Joseph Siravo in the 1998 made-for-TV film \"Witness to the Mob\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1952511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952511", "title": "Stolberg-Stolberg", "text": "Stolberg-Stolberg\n\nStolberg-Stolberg was a county of the Holy Roman Empire located in the southern Harz region. Its capital was the town of Stolberg, now in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. It was ruled by a branch of the House of Stolberg.\n\nIn 1429, the County of Wernigerode passed to the Counts of Stolberg, who ruled Wernigerode through a personal union. In 1548, the line was split between a Harz line (Stolberg-Stolberg) and a Rhenish line which had possessions in Rochefort (Stolberg-Rochefort) and Königstein im Taunus (Stolberg-Königstein).\n\nWith the death of Count Wolf Georg zu Stolberg in 1631, Stolberg-Stolberg was inherited by members of the Rhenish line. On 31 May 1645, Stolberg-Stolberg was divided between a senior Stolberg-Wernigerode line and a junior Stolberg-Stolberg line. In 1706, Stolberg-Stolberg divided again, with Stolberg-Rossla being created.\n\nStolberg-Stolberg was forced to recognize the suzerainty of the Electorate of Saxony in 1738. It was awarded to the Kingdom of Prussia in the 1815 Congress of Vienna.\n\nThe children of \"Fürsten\" and \"Erbprinzen\" zu Stolberg-Wernigerode bore the title of Prince[ss] (\"Prinz[essin]\") zu Stolberg-Wernigerode and were styled Serene Highness. Other members of this line bore the title of Count[ess] (\"Graf/Gräfin\") zu Stolberg-Wernigerode, with the style of Illustrious Highness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952521", "title": "Izet Dibra", "text": "Izet Dibra\n\nIzet Dibra (1878-1964) born Izet Shatku was an Albanian politician and mayor of Tirana from 1927 to 1928. He also served as minister of public works in Pandeli Evangjeli's cabinet. His brother Faik had served as attorney general and minister of justice.\n\nIzet Dibra was born as Izet Shatku on May 19, 1878 in Debar, back then Ottoman Empire, today's North Macedonia. His father Murat Ibrahim Shatku was a local merchant and financier.\n\nShatku took his initial studies in his native town, and followed later in Monastir. Preceding the Balkan Wars, his family moved to Turkey. There he completed studies in the Istanbul University for jurisprudence before returning to Albania in 1920. After certain lower positions in the judicial system, he was elected shortly sub-prefect of Elbasan prefecture. With the new assembly constitution, he became assembly member representing the Dibër prefecture. Until 1930 he served in several prefectures. A pro-Zog politician, he was elected minister of public works in Pandeli Evangjeli's cabinet. 1n 1937 he was elected assembly member again.\n\nAfter World War II, his properties and belongings would be confiscated and his family deported. He died in Shkodër in 11.02.1964.\n"}
{"id": "1952527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952527", "title": "Attic War", "text": "Attic War\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Attic War is the conflict between the Amazons, led by Amazon queen Penthesilea, and the Athenians, led by Theseus or Heracles. \n\nDepending on the version, the Amazons fought to free either Antiope or her sister Hippolyta from captivity after her abduction at the hands of a Greek hero. \n\nPer some Greek myths, Heracles abducted Hippolyta during his ninth labor and later gave her to Theseus. Per other myths, Hippolyta was killed during the ninth labor and Theseus, who had joined Hercules during his expedition, abducted Hippolyta's sister Antiope. \n\nIn all the myths, the Amazons then went to war against the Athenians and were soundly defeated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952529", "title": "Peter Gotti", "text": "Peter Gotti\n\nPeter Arthur Gotti (born October 15, 1939) is a former American New York mobster who was the boss of the Gambino crime family and the older brother of former Gambino boss John J. Gotti.\n\nPeter Gotti was born to John and Fannie Gotti. Peter's brothers included John J. Gotti, capo Gene Gotti, capo Richard V. Gotti, and soldier Vincent Gotti. The brothers grew up in East New York, Brooklyn. Peter is the father of Peter Gotti Jr. together with his then-wife Catherine. Peter's nickname \"One Eye\" derives from blindness from glaucoma in one eye. In Goombata by John Cummings and Ernest Volkman, they say that as a young boy, Peter was openly called \"a complete retard.\"\n\nAround 1960, at age 21, Peter Gotti started working as an associate for the Gambino family. In 1988, at age 49, the family inducted Peter Gotti as a full member, or made man. John J. Gotti did not believe his brother Peter had the ability to belong to the Mafia, which may have led to Peter's reputation as \"the Dumbest Don.\" John J. Gotti designated Peter as caretaker of the Bergin Hunt and Fish Club, and as a driver for John and Gene. By 1989, Peter was promoted to capo.\n\nLike his father, Peter Gotti had a legitimate job as a sanitation worker for the New York City Department of Sanitation. Peter eventually retired from the Sanitation Department with a disability pension after injuring his head against the back end of a garbage truck.\n\nIn April 1992, his brother, John J. Gotti, received a life sentence for racketeering and related offenses. His brother asserted his prerogative to retain his title as boss until his death or retirement, with his son John A. Gotti and Peter relaying orders on his behalf. Federal prosecutors say Peter, became head of the Gambino organization after Gotti Jr. was sent to prison in 1999, and is believed to have formally succeeded his brother shortly before Gotti Sr.'s death in June 2002.\n\nIn June 2002, a few days before his brother John's death, Peter Gotti was indicted on federal racketeering charges. During Peter Gotti's trial, federal prosecutors released information revealing that Peter was having an affair with Marjorie Alexander, a longtime girlfriend. Alexander then publicly acknowledged the liaison and declared her love for Peter. In response, Peter berated Alexander for causing the publicity and broke off all contact with her. Alexander later committed suicide in 2004. During this time Catherine Gotti, Peter's wife of 42 years, filed for divorce, which was finalized in 2006.\n\nIn 2003, Peter Gotti was convicted of extortion and money laundering activities centered on the Brooklyn and Staten Island waterfronts, and for the attempted extortion of film actor Steven Seagal. Judge Frederic Block of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York also sentenced Gotti to 9 years and 4 months in prison on April 15, 2004 for the money laundering and racketeering charges. Peter received over 20 years in prison. On December 22, 2004, Peter was convicted of extortion in the construction industry and for plotting to murder government informant and former Gambino underboss Salvatore \"Sammy the Bull\" Gravano. Judge Richard C. Casey on July 27, 2005, sentenced Peter Gotti to 25 years in prison regarding those charges.\n\nPeter Gotti is imprisoned at the Federal Correctional Complex, Butner. His projected release date, if he survives, is May 5, 2032. During his last trial, lawyers stated that Peter Gotti was blind in one eye and suffered from thyroid goiter, sciatica, emphysema, rheumatoid arthritis, postconcussion syndrome, and depression.\n\nIn July 2011, Gangland writer Jerry Capeci reported that Domenico Cefalù had formally replaced Peter Gotti as official Gambino boss.\n\nIn July 2019, Gotti requested compassionate release, citing failing health, but was denied in September, and later requested it again in December.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952531", "title": "David Leatherdale", "text": "David Leatherdale\n\nDavid Antony Leatherdale (born 26 November 1967 in Bradford, Yorkshire) is a former English cricketer. He played county cricket for Worcestershire.\n\nLeatherdale is a fine example of the county pro who, while not good enough to play international cricket, is nevertheless of great benefit to his club. In a career stretching over 17 years with Worcestershire, he has scored more than 10,000 first-class runs at a batting average of slightly under 33, and his straightforward medium-pacers have brought him more than 130 wickets, with over another 170 in the one-day game.\n\nAlthough he made his first-class debut in 1988, Leatherdale did not receive his county cap for another six years. He has reached 1000 first-class runs in a season just once, in 1998 when he made 1001.\n\nHe was awarded a benefit by Worcestershire in 2003, and retired from first-class cricket at the end of that season, although he continued to play one-day cricket and was unexpectedly called up for the County Championship game against Derbyshire in April 2005. He finally called time on his long playing career in December of that year to concentrate on a full-time job as commercial director of the county.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952532", "title": "Ioannis Psycharis", "text": "Ioannis Psycharis\n\nIoannis (Yiannis) Psycharis (Greek: Ιωάννης (Γιάννης) Ψυχάρης; French: \"Jean Psychari\"; 1854–1929) was a French philologist of Greek origin, author and promoter of Demotic Greek.\n\nPsycharis was born on 15 May 1854 in Odessa (in modern-day Ukraine, then part of the Russian Empire), in a merchant family of Chiot descent. His mother died when he was a child, and he was raised by his grandmother in Marseille. He also spent some time with his father in Constantinople and later moved to Paris.\n\nHe studied at the École des langues orientales.\n\nPsycharis was director of studies at the École pratique des hautes études after 1885, and then professor at the École des langues orientales from 1903 to 1928, succeeding .\n\nIn 1886, he made a trip to Greece out of which he wrote \"My Journey\", advocacy of Demotic Greek (with some remarks on the Ancient Greek pronunciation), which connected it with the national integration (\"Megali Idea\"). So he became the mentor of the Demotic side in the Greek language question. Because of his stance, in favour of \"Demotiki\", he was heavily criticized by both the conservative political and educational establishment in Greece (most notably professor Georgios Hatzidakis), and he was often under attack by various newspapers.\n\nPsycharis was the populariser of the term diglossia, which describes a language community's simultaneous use of the genuine mother tongue of the present day, the vernacular, and a dialect from centuries earlier in the history of the language. The vernacular is of low prestige and is discouraged or totally forbidden for written use and formal spoken use, while the obsolete dialect is of high prestige and is used for most written communication and for formal speeches by institutions of authority such as government and religious institutions. Diglossia was a major issue in Greek society and politics in the 19th and 20th centuries (see Greek language question).\n\nPsycharis also proposed an innovative orthography for Greek that never really caught on, despite being the focus of several serious attempts at implementation continuing into the late 20th century. A beginning Modern Greek textbook for foreign students, \"Ellinika Tora\" (\"Greek Now\"), employs some of his suggestions such as substituting rho for lambda when the pronunciation of the glide is conditioned by the other sounds around it – thus αδερφός (\"aderfos\") instead of standard αδελφός (\"adelphos\"). While that and other of his suggestions more accurately reflect true pronunciation, they seem to have little chance of being adopted.\n\nDuring the Dreyfus affair, Psycharis defended Alfred Dreyfus, who had been falsely accused of treason because he was Jewish. Moreover, Psycharis supported his friend Emile Zola's publication of \"J'accuse…!\", a public letter in defense of Dreyfus.\n\nIn 1882, he married Ernest Renan's daughter, Noémie. They had four children, among which Ernest Psichari, and , raised in the Scheffer-Renan Hôtel, the current Musée de la Vie romantique in the heart of the \"Nouvelle Athènes\" neighbourhood, in Paris.\n\nPsycharis died in Paris on 29 September 1929. He is buried in Chios.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952536", "title": "Tim Hunter (ice hockey)", "text": "Tim Hunter (ice hockey)\n\nTimothy Robert Hunter (born September 10, 1960) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player, and head coach most recently the head coach of the Moose Jaw Warriors of the Western Hockey League (WHL), having previously served as an assistant coach in the National Hockey League (NHL), most recently for the Washington Capitals. Chosen in the 3rd round of the 1979 NHL Entry Draft (#54 overall) by the Atlanta Flames, Hunter went on to a 16-season playing career with the Calgary Flames, Quebec Nordiques, Vancouver Canucks, and San Jose Sharks.\n\nHunter was on the Flames' 1989 Stanley Cup championship team, and also appeared in the Stanley Cup Finals in 1986 with Calgary and in 1994 with Vancouver. During his playing days, Hunter was known for his fierce style of play, ranking him among hockey's unwritten list of elite enforcers during the 1980s and 1990s. He also was a quality defensive player and penalty killer.\n\nTim Hunter was named as an assistant coach for the Washington Capitals on July 23, 1997, and remained in that position until July 15, 2002. He became an assistant coach with the San Jose Sharks on December 6, 2002, and served through the 2007-08 season. Named as an assistant coach with the Toronto Maple Leafs on July 22, 2008, Hunter was relieved of that position on June 20, 2011. He was re-hired as an assistant coach of the Capitals on July 23, 2012.\n\nHunter's contract in Washington was not renewed for 2013, and after being linked to several coaching positions in the WHL, he was named as head coach of Moose Jaw Warriors of the Western Hockey League (WHL) in July 2014.\n\nOn January 6 2020 at a team press conference, Tim Hunter was fired from the Moose Jaw Warriors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952539", "title": "Biltmore Fashion Park", "text": "Biltmore Fashion Park\n\nThe Biltmore Fashion Park is a luxury outdoor retail and dining plaza located in the Biltmore District of Phoenix, Arizona, along the prestigious stretch of East Camelback Rd. The recently renovated and expanded mid-century plaza is the city of Phoenix's premiere address for high-end retail. The Biltmore Fashion Park, as well as the surrounding business and residential district, are named after the historic Arizona Biltmore Hotel, nearby.\n\nOriginally owned by Westcor, in 2002 Biltmore Fashion Park became part of The Macerich Company's portfolio. It is located in an upscale area of Phoenix, bordering the popular tourist sites of Scottsdale, Arizona and Paradise Valley.\n\nBiltmore Fashion Park opened on of land in what was once considered \"the outskirts\" of Phoenix, in 1963. Anchored at that time by San Francisco's upscale I. Magnin, Saks Fifth Avenue and The Broadway which opened in 1968, it was the city's original luxury shopping and dining destination. The mall was designed by the prominent Architecture Firm of Welton Becket and Associates and built by the Chanen Construction Company. The original Saks Fifth Avenue featured native stone walls and concrete Native American hieroglyphics. The Broadway Building which was the first expansion of the mall was designed by Charles Luckman and built by the Del E. Webb Corporation in 1968.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, The Gittings Portrait Studio at the Biltmore photographed the likes of John Wayne, Bob Hope, Princess Grace of Monaco, Barry Goldwater, Red Skelton, Sophia Loren, and many other celebrities and well-known figures who frequented the Biltmore.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the center was purchased by Taubman Centers for $115 million, helping Biltmore Fashion Park transform further into a premiere luxury shopping destination. During this period, the Biltmore underwent a transformation. Both original anchors changed hands, with Saks Fifth Avenue taking over I. Magnin's former space and Macy's taking The Broadway's former space. The center also introduced a number of new luxury retailers, including Cartier, Christofle, Cole Haan, Escada, Gucci, Landau, Lanciani, Louis Vuitton, Max Nugus and Ralph Lauren. The Biltmore was also chosen as one of three sites nationwide for The Galleries of Neiman Marcus; however, Neiman Marcus folded the concept two years later.\n\nThe Biltmore continued to remain as the dominant luxury collection in Phoenix, drawing the metropolitan area's at the time sole Allen Edmonds, Apple, Elizabeth Arden, Rangoni Firenze, Stuart Weitzman, and Waterworks stores. Tommy Bahama also opened a flagship store at the center.\n\nBy the early 2000s, due to growing retail competition from other, newer high-end retail centers in nearby Scottsdale, Arizona, the Biltmore Fashion Park was purchased by Westcor, and underwent a major renovation, with hopes of revitalizing the older, mid-century exterior of the center which some considered dated. With the plaza already considered a local Phoenix landmark, it was a controversial decision at the time.\n\nThe redevelopment's mission was to effectively sever a then-heated rivalry for the same prominent national retailers, between the Biltmore and the larger Scottsdale Fashion Square just six miles to the east on Camelback Road. In order to achieve this, Westcor initiated a relocation project of the more global brand names to the Fashion Square to allow more room for \"home-grown\" and \"fashion forward\" stores. Following Louis Vuitton's move to Fashion Square in 2002, Westcor also transplanted Betsey Johnson, Gucci. The center is signing younger stores, including CALYPSO Christiane Celle, Patagonia, Vera Bradley, and the first Roberto Botticelli in the United States. Despite these luxury movement, Saks Fifth Avenue has expanded its store due to high sales growth. The store has leased space to open Louis Vuitton, Fendi, Chanel Cosmetics, and the first-ever La Prairie boutiques. It also significantly expanded its Prada, Chanel and Gucci vendor shops.\n\nOther retailers set to open include Theory and Intermix.\n\nIt is known for many upscale dining establishments. James Beard award-winner Christopher Gross of Christopher's Fermier Brasserie and Paola's Wine Bar top the list of Biltmore Fashion Park's 12 restaurants and eateries.\n"}
{"id": "1952549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952549", "title": "9 O'Clock Gun", "text": "9 O'Clock Gun\n\nThe 9 O'Clock Gun is a cannon located in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, that is ordinarily fired daily at 21:00 (9 p.m.) PT. From 30 March to 30 April 2020, the gun is set to fire at 19:00 (7 p.m.), in support of local health care workers during the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nThe gun is a 12-pound muzzle-loaded naval cannon, cast in Woolwich, England in 1816. The crests of King George III and Henry Phipps, 1st Earl of Mulgrave, Master-General of the Ordnance at the time the cannon was cast, are on the barrel. Seventy-eight years later, in about 1894, it was brought to Stanley Park by the Department of Marine and Fisheries to warn fishermen of the 18:00 Sunday close of fishing. On October 15, 1898, the gun was fired for the first time in Stanley Park at noon.\n\nThe 21:00 firing was later established as a time signal for the general population and to allow the chronometers of ships in port to be accurately set. The Brockton Point lighthouse keeper, William D. Jones, originally detonated a stick of dynamite over the water until the cannon was installed. The cannon is now activated automatically with an electronic trigger which was installed by the Parks Board electrical department. It is still loaded daily with a black powder charge. The fluorescent lights illuminating the gun from overhead go out exactly ten seconds before it fires, and turn back on a few seconds afterward.\n\nThe clock used to time the firing of the gun runs slightly fast, such that towards the end of each year, the gun fires up to 50 seconds before 9pm. At New Year's Day, the clock seems to be reset, and the gun goes off at 9pm again.\n\nThe 9 O'Clock Gun has been silent for at least seven periods: once during World War II, in 1969 when it was stolen and held by University of British Columbia Engineering students until a \"ransom\" was donated to BC Children's Hospital, in 2007 during a work stoppage, in 2008 when UBC Engineering students painted it red, and on 20 May 2011, July 22, 2017, July 26, 2017, August 8, 2019, October 7, 2019, November 17, 2019, November 26, 2019 with no explanation. After the 1969 theft, the cannon was surrounded by a stone and metal enclosure as shown in the photo.\n\nThe gun was restored and sheltered by a new pavilion designed by architect Gregory Henriquez in 1986 and built as a centennial gift to the city from Ebco Industries, Chester Millar, First Generation Capital, and the Hudson's Bay Company.\n\nIn the past there was a Texaco floating gas station permanently anchored in line with the gun and in 1964 someone was able to toss rocks from the beach below into the barrel which then perforated the 'O' in the large illuminated sign above the barge. The barge was moved slightly after that event.\n\nAt noon on Canada Day (1 July), three additional cannons were added to the sea wall just to the West of the 9 O'Clock Gun. These three cannons each fired seven times, resulting in a 21 gun salute.\n\nThe 9 O'Clock Gun has had its own Twitter Parody Account since May 21, 2012, in which it tweets \"BOOM!\" every day at the time of firing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952552", "title": "Northwestern Turnpike", "text": "Northwestern Turnpike\n\nThe Northwestern Turnpike is a historic road in West Virginia (Virginia at the time the road was created), important for being historically one of the major roads crossing the Appalachians, financed by the Virginia Board of Public Works in the 1830s. In modern times, west of Winchester, Virginia, U.S. Route 50 follows the path of the Northwestern Turnpike into West Virginia, whose major Corridor D project follows the western section of the original Northwestern Turnpike.\n\nThe following description of the Northwestern Turnpike is taken from Dr. J. M. Callahan's \"Semi-Centennial History of West Virginia\", pages 106-9, published in 1913:\n\n\"The old Northwestern Turnpike, extending from Winchester, Virginia on a general westward course to Parkersburg, West Virginia on the Ohio, is a historic highway which deserves more mention than it has ever received as a factor related to the American westward movement and to the problem of communication between East and West. It was the inevitable result of the call of the West and the need of a Virginia state road.\"\n\n\"Perhaps its first suggestion was recorded by George Washington, who in 1758 had been the champion of the Braddock road (not then supposed to lie in Pennsylvania) and who in 1784 sought a route located wholly in Virginia. Returning from a visit to his western lands, after following McCulloch's Path (then the most important route across the rugged ridges between the valleys), he crossed the North Branch Potomac River on the future route of the greater Virginia highway which was partially realized in the 'state road' authorized from Winchester via Romney to Morgantown before 1786, and extended westward in 1786 by a branch road from near Cheat to Clarksburg, from which the first road was marked to the mouth of the Little Kanawha River between 1788 and 1790.\"\n\n\"The later turnpike was planned and constructed by Virginia partly as a result of the rival activities of New York, Pennsylvania, and Maryland to secure the advantage in transportation facilities for the trade of the West; and was especially regarded as a rival of the National Road which was opened from Cumberland to Wheeling in 1818, and with which parts of Virginia obtained better connection in 1830 by a stage line established from Winchester to Cumberland. It was built across the Appalachian Divide with the hope of securing commercial superiority, and was the main thoroughfare between East and West through northern Virginia.\"\n\n\"The act in incorporation of 1827, authorizing subscriptions at Winchester, Romney, Moorefield, Beverly, Kingwood, Pruntytown, Clarksburg, and Parkersburg made the mistake of arbitrarily locating the route through important towns without proper consideration of the physical features of the country. After finding a way through Hampshire County via Mechanicsburg Gap in Mill Creek Mountain, and pushing on into Preston County, the engineers encountered insurmountable obstacles to the Kingwood route, causing the stock to languish.\"\n\n\"The enterprise was saved by the remarkable act of 1831 which organized a road company, with the Governor as President and one of the Board of Directors, with power to borrow money ($125,000) on the credit of the State to construct a turnpike road of a minimum width of twelve feet, 'from Winchester to some point on the Ohio River to be situated by the principal engineer', and with the right to erect bridges or to regulate ferries already in existence and to establish toll-gates on each twenty-mile (32 km) section completed.\"\n\n\"The chief engineer was Col. Claudius Crozet, a French officer of artillery under Napoleon Bonaparte in the Russian campaign, and later professor of engineering in the United States Military Academy from 1816 to 1823. He was assisted by Charles B. Shaw.\"\n\"The chosen route was through Hampshire County, West Virginia, Mineral County, West Virginia, Grant County, West Virginia, Garrett County, Maryland, Preston County, West Virginia, Taylor County, West Virginia, Harrison County, West Virginia, Doddridge County, West Virginia, Ritchie County, West Virginia, and Wood County, West Virginia. In Hampshire County it was established via Capon Bridge, Hanging Rock, Pleasant Dale, and Augusta to Romney, west of which it crossed the South Branch Potomac River. Through Mineral it passed via Burlington, thence westward across Patterson Creek, and through Ridgeville on the divide to New Creek which it crossed at Rees' tannery. Then turning toward the southwest, it crossed the North Branch Potomac River southwest of the present town of Gormania and entered the southwest corner of Maryland through which it passed for eight and three-fourths miles, crossing the Alleghenies and emerging into Preston east of the German settlement (later known as Aurora). It passed across the picturesque Cheat Valley considerably south of Rowlesburg, and via Fellowsville, Evansville, Thornton, Grafton, Pruntytown, and Bridgeport to Clarksburg, thence over the summit via the head of Ten Mile Creek to Salem, thence across Middle Island Creek at West Union and via Tollgate, Pennsboro, Ellenboro (earlier Shumley), the head of Goose Creek, and Murphytown to Parkersburg. Much of the route passed through a vast wilderness interspersed here and there by a few old settlements and towns.\"\n\n\"No longer dependent on the larger towns for its success, the road was completed through the wilds of Preston, considerably south of Kingwood, in 1832, and was opened westward to Clarksburg and Parkersburg by 1838. Its construction cost $400,000. It crossed the mountains by easy grades and the larger streams (in some sections all the streams) by good bridges. It was macadamized from Tygart Valley River to Parkersburg in 1848. About 1852, it was further improved by construction of new bridges across several streams at important crossings. In 1840, facilities for travel and news were increased on the western end of the road by the establishment of a daily line of stages, and a regular mail service, which made connection with the Ohio steamers at Parkersburg. By 1845, there was a line of fast tri-weekly stages at Romney to the Ohio at Parkersburg. It connected at Romney with stages from Winchester, from Moorefield, and from Green Spring at which connections were made with Baltimore by trains of the Baltimore and Ohio Railway. The fare from Green Spring to Parkersburg (210 miles) was $10.00.\"\n\n\"The road, establishing commercial and other relations, soon became a busy thoroughfare of travel and traffic which stimulated the creation of many inns and towns along the route - such as Aurora, Fellowsville, Evansville (1833), and West Union (1846). In many ways it influenced the material prosperity and social life of the people of the region through which it passed. Following the act of 1831, which provided for satisfactory adjustment of land titles, it was an important incentive to immigration and settlement and development - especially along the region of southern Preston and in Ritchie. Its construction also stimulated the construction of intersecting roads, such as the Brandonville pike, starting from Somerfield, Pennsylvania, passing via Kingwood, and connecting with the Northwestern at a point which became Fellowsville by 1848. It also doubtless influenced the legislature in 1837 to provide for a survey of Cheat from the turnpike crossing to the Pennsylvania line. On some parts of the course it furnished the incentive for the establishment of inns to meet the needs of those who desired to escape the heat of the seaboard by a summer sojourn amid the wild beauty of the mountains, whose streams were filled with trout and whose forest furnished a home for deer and other game.\"\n\n\"Beyond the headwaters of the Potomac, it passed over the Backbone, opening the way to a remote and inaccessible region bordering on the land of Canaan, which was made famous a few years later by 'The Clerk of Oxenford' (David Hunter Strother) in 'The Blackwater Chronicle' and later by the same writer under the nom de plume 'Porte Crayon' in 'A Visit to the Virginian Canaan.'\"\n\n\"It might have been a road of greater importance if Virginia soon after its completion had not been induced to divert her interest from turnpikes to canals - influenced by the completion of a Pennsylvania system of transportation connecting with the Ohio at Pittsburgh. West of the Alleghenies, it was extensively damaged by the numerous heavy cattle driven over it in the winter and early spring. It was also much injured by high waters, especially in 1852 and 1853.\"\n\n\"Although it never became of national importance as did its more renowned national rival at the north, it was for a while the busy scene of much business of a national character and gave fair promise of serving well the purpose for which Virginia had planned it until its larger usefulness was transferred to its horseless rival which, persistently overcoming obstacles and opposition, reached Cumberland by 1845, Grafton in 1852, and Parkersburg in 1857.\"\n\n\"Supported by a sentiment that long scorned the possibility of competition and that later opposed any improved system of transportation which, by absorbing the slower traffic, might close the taverns and ruin the local market for grain and provisions, it was finally paralleled by a railroad which diverted its travel and traffic, created rival towns, and brought pioneer prospectors and promoters who prepared the way for the later era of larger industrial development.\"\n\n\"Although its utility was diminished by proximity to the railroad, it was still in moderate repair in the decade after the close of the war, and it has continued a constant local benefit to the territory through which it passes.\"\n\n\"While the Northwestern Turnpike does not cross Hardy County, it has affected the transportation to a large extent from the Moorefield and Petersburg regions to the north, and with the completion of West Virginia Route 28 to Junction will be the main outlet, both eastward and westward, for all the region from Moorefield southward, or until such time as old West Virginia Route 54 (now WV 28) is paved from Romney to Alaska from which point a hard-surfaced road extends to Cumberland where connection is made with the National Road (U.S. Route 40).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1952561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952561", "title": "181st Street station (IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line)", "text": "181st Street station (IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line)\n\n181st Street is a local station on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line of the New York City Subway. Located at the intersection of St. Nicholas Avenue and 181st Street in Washington Heights, Manhattan, it is served by the 1 train at all times.\n\nThis station will be closed between March 2021 and February 2022 for elevator repair.\n\nThe West Side Branch of the first subway was extended northward to a temporary terminus of 221st Street and Broadway on March 12, 1906 with the station at 181st Street not yet open. The 181st Street station opened on May 30, 1906, and on this date express trains on the Broadway branch began running through to 221st Street, eliminating the need to transfer at 157th Street to shuttles.\n\nOn June 25, 1909, the New York City Board of Estimate approved an appropriation of $160,000 for the installation of four additional elevators at the station.\n\nIn 1948, platforms on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line from 103rd Street to 238th Street were lengthened to to allow full ten-car express trains to stop at this station. Previously, the station could only hold six-car local trains. The platform extensions were opened in stages. On April 6, 1948, the platform extension opened for stations from 103rd Street to Dyckman Street, with the exception of 125th Street.\n\nOn December 28, 1950, the New York City Board of Transportation issued a report concerning the construction of bomb shelters in the subway system. Five deep stations in Washington Heights, including the 181st Street station, were considered to be ideal for being used as bomb-proof shelters. The program was expected to cost $104 million. These shelters were expected to provide limited protection against conventional bombs, while providing protection against shock waves and air blast, as well as from the heat and radiation from an atomic bomb. To become suitable as shelters, the stations would require water-supply facilities, first-aid rooms, and additional bathrooms.\n\nThe station reopened on November 22, 1999 upon the completion of elevator installation. The entrance at the southeast corner of 181st Street and St. Nicholas Avenue remained closed until early 2000.\n\nIn 2004, the number of elevator attendants at the station was reduced to one per station as a result of budget cuts by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA). The agency had intended to remove all the attendants, but kept one in each station after many riders protested. The change saved $1.2 million a year. In November 2007, the MTA proposed savings cuts to help reduce the agency's deficit. As part of the plan, all elevator operators at 181st Street, along with those in four other stations in Washington Heights, would have been cut. On December 7, 2007, the MTA announced that it would not remove the remaining elevator operators at 181st Street, along with those in four other stations in Washington Heights. The move was intended to save $1.7 million a year, but was not implemented due to pushback from elected officials and residents from the area. In October 2018, the MTA again proposed removing the elevator operators at the five stations, but this decision was reversed after dissent from the Transport Workers' Union.\n\nThe elevator attendants currently serve as a way to reassure passengers as the elevators are the only entrance to the platforms, and passengers often wait for the elevators with an attendant. The attendants at the five stations are primarily maintenance and cleaning workers who suffered injuries that made it hard for them to continue doing their original jobs.\n\nThis station will be closed between March 2021 and February 2022 for elevator repair. It is unclear whether the elevator operators will keep their jobs after their replacement.\n\nDuring the station's construction in the mid-1900s, the Fort George Mine Tunnel was being built to take the Interborough Rapid Transit Company's Broadway–Seventh Avenue line through upper Manhattan. Due to the steep terrain, the tunnel had to be mined using explosives. During construction on October 24, 1903, a 300-ton boulder, weakened by such an explosive, gave way, killing 10 miners. Of these, six were killed instantly and four died later of their injuries; in addition, eight miners were injured. The dead miners consisted of eight Italian immigrants, the foreman from Italy, and an electrician from Germany.\n\nOn August 16, 2009, at around 10:30 pm, a 25-foot section of the bricks lining the 35-foot high curved ceiling of the station collapsed onto both uptown and downtown tracks and platforms. Nobody was injured in the incident. This caused suspension of 1 service between 168th Street and Dyckman Street stations in both directions for eight days with free shuttle buses providing replacement. End-to-end service on the 1 was restored on August 24, except trains skipped 181st Street. The station reopened to passengers on August 31, 2009.\n\nThere was also a partial ceiling collapse at the same station in 2007, according to Judith M. Kunoff, Chief Architect for the NYC Transit Authority. According to NY1, the repairs to the station cost $30 million and did not start until the end of 2012.\n\nThis underground station has two tracks and two side platforms, and is below the surface. As a result, it has four elevators that lead from the fare control level to one level above the platforms. On this level, a footbridge near the northern end of the station connects the side platforms. When the station opened on May 30, 1906, there had only been two elevators to the platforms, but in 1909, two more elevators were added.\n\nAll elevators are capable of traveling one level further down to the uptown platform, but this area has been closed and walled off.\n\nThere is also a second footbridge near the south end of the station. However, it is used only as an emergency exit, and contains a staircase, so all riders must take an elevator to enter or exit the station except in emergencies.\n\nThe station was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2005. As part of the Multiple Property Submission of the Historic Resources of the New York City Subway System, the 181st Street Station is significant in the areas of transportation, community planning, engineering, and architectural design.\n\nThere are two exits to this station at either eastern corner of St. Nicholas Avenue and 181st Street. The northeast-corner entrance is inside a building and the southeast-corner entrance is on the street. The fare control area contains a shopping arcade that includes a deli and clothing store.\n\nThe station serves Yeshiva University and the George Washington Bridge Bus Terminal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952564", "title": "Open Source Metaverse Project", "text": "Open Source Metaverse Project\n\nThe Open Source Metaverse Project, or OSMP, was a multi-participant shared virtual world online platform. This platform was free and open-source software co-founded in 2004 by Hugh Perkins and Jorge Lima.\n\nOSMP is loosely modeled on the World Wide Web borrowing ideas from existing worlds such as Second Life, Active Worlds, and There. This project aims to produce an open-source engine for the creation of streamed 3D worlds, also making it possible to interconnect existing worlds into a single open, standards-based Metaverse.\n\nIn 2005, ACMSIGGRAPH conducted a reachout campaign to the art and animation \ncommunity, asking for course proposals about the nature of open source and its use in computer graphics and interactive techniques. OSMP was contacted by Dr. John Fujii as part of this initiative, in order to organize a collaborative online meeting space for SIGGRAPH 2005 members. \nAs of 2008, the project was no longer active. Most developers shifted focus to development of open-source software compatible with Second Life such as OpenSimulator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952567", "title": "George L. Hart", "text": "George L. Hart\n\nGeorge Luzerne Hart, III (born c. 1945) is a professor of Tamil language at the University of California, Berkeley. His work focuses on the classical Tamil literature and on identifying the relationships between the Tamil and Sanskrit literature. In 2015 the Government of India awarded him the title of Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian honour.\n\nHart received his PhD in Sanskrit from Harvard University in 1971. He has also studied Latin and Greek as well as several modern European and Indian languages. He taught Sanskrit at the University of Wisconsin–Madison before joining the faculty at the University of California, Berkeley, where he founded the Tamil Department.\n\nHart is best known for his translations of several Tamil epics into English and for his argument that Tamil is a classical language, a status that the Government of India formally accorded it on 18 September 2004.\n\nHart is also the author of several Tamil and Sanskrit textbooks. \n\nHe is married to Kausalya Hart, who is also a professor and Tamil textbook author.\n\n\nHart's \"Poems of Ancient Tamil\" offers a comparative analysis of ancient Tamil poetry (Sangam literature) with reference to the classical Indo-Aryan (Sanskrit and Prakrit) literature. It sets forth a \"very convincing argument\" that the themes of southern poets were assimilated into the Prakrit and classical Sanskrit poetry, such as Gaha Sattasai and the poetry of Kalidasa. However, there was little influence of the northern literary expression on the Tamil literature. To substantiate this thesis, Hart provides a thorough analysis of the antecedents of the ancient Tamil poetry and its cultural milieu, which focused on controlling sacred power among various social classes, and its reflection in the later literate poetry. Hart points out that the Indo-Aryan poetry, in its borrowing of the Tamil literary elements, lacked the subtlety and sophistication of its Tamil counterparts. Reviewer Lucetta Mowry finds it to be the \"beginning of a valuable and important study\" of the relation between the two Indic traditions.\n\nThis endorsement is contested by the scholar of Middle Indo-Aryan languages K. R. Norman, who finds the comparisons made by Hart between Tamil poems and similar Prakrit poems misleading as they ignore the fact that the Prakrit verses were expected to have two meanings, the obvious meaning as well as a hidden erotic meaning. He also questions Hart's proposition that the arya metre used in Sanskrit and Prakrit poetry is related to the Tamil metre, the dating of the \"Gaha Sattasai\" (the main Prakrit work considered by Hart), the neglect of the earlier Middle Indo-Aryan texts, and the idea that the borrowings only happened at the poetic level rather than in the mixed heritage of the Indo-Aryan culture in the north.\n\nTamil scholar Kamil Zvelebil states that Hart had set before himself \"very difficult and even enormous tasks,\" but he has not succeeded in solving them. According to him, Hart's work involved four key insights: that in ancient Tamilnadu practically everything was filled with sacred forces, that the stress on female chastity was characteristically Tamil, that there are striking parallels between Tamil and Sanskrit-Prakrit poetry, and that the theory of \"dhvani\" or 'suggestion' is Dravidian in origin. He finds some of these ideas questionable. However, others are \"truly marvellous,\" e.g., the ones about \"aṇaṅku\", sacred, dangerous power, the female breasts being the seat of \"aṇaṅku\", the different nature of indigenous gods from those of the north, and the idea that all aspects of love between man and woman were animated by the sacred, etc. The over-all thesis of the influence of southern imagery and poetic techniques on the Indo-Aryan poetry such as \"Sattasai\" and even Kalidasa are probable and \"overwhelmingly convincing.\" Zvelebil calls the book a \"refreshing, original, excellent work of first-class importance.\"\n\nV. S. Rajam disagrees with Hart’s views on \"aṇaṅku\" as female sacred power, calling it oversimplified and reductionist. She states that the term has undergone a semantic shift over time.\"\n\nFollowing the publication of \"The Poems of Ancient Tamil\", Hart published an abridged booklet, \"The Relation between Tamil and Classical Sanskrit Literature\", in which he set out his key points. He clarified that his proposal was not of a direct transmission of poetic techniques from the Tamil poetry to Sanskrit, but rather that both of them owed these techniques to a common source, which he placed in the Deccan megalithic cultures. \"Gaha Sattasai\" in Maharashtri Prakrit was contemporaneous with the Tamil Sangam poetry and Kalidasa himself had composed very similar poems in Maharashtri Prakrit. The key examples of striking similarities were the messenger poem, the motif of separation of lovers during the monsoon and the comparison of the sound of wind through a bamboo hole to the noise of a flute.\n\nHart's observations on the features of the early South Indian caste system, which are said to have been independent of the Indo-Aryan varna system, are summarised in \"Early Evidence for Caste in South India\", which has received significant attention from social and cultural historians. According to Chakravarti, the Sangam literature reveals that there was a class of 'low-born' people, such as the Pulaiyar and Paraiyar, who were made to live in separate settlements at a distance from the main villages. They were engaged in occupations such as leather work, washing of clothes and fishing. They were also associated with 'death' and were believed to have the ability to control and isolate sacred power (\"aṇaṅku\"), but not the ability to transform it. According to Samuel, the 'low-born' groups, acting as drummers, bards and musicians, were central to maintaining the king's power, allowing him to tap into the ritual power and transform it into auspicious power. Samuel notes, however, that the notion of 'low-born' occupational groups representing ritual power may not be limited to Tamilnadu. Very similar situation persists to this day in Ladakh, Nepal and elsewhere in the Himalayas. Even in north India, the social reality outside the Brahmanical theory might have been similar to the Tamil system.\n\nAccording to Hart, when the Brahmins from north India arrived in the Tamilnadu, probably around 300 BCE, they offered an alternative source of power through Vedic sacrifices, which was already considered pure and auspicious, and to emphasise the distinction between themselves and the 'low-born' groups, the Brahmins developed conventions quite the opposite of the latter, becoming strict vegetarians and not allowing dogs and chickens into their villages. Through the Brahmins and the Hinduism they brought, the Tamil kings aspired to rise above the endemic warfare and establish stable empires modelled after the Gupta Empire. Once this was accomplished, Hart states that the 'low-born' groups gradually lost their ritual function, becoming purely occupational groups of low status..\n\nFor \"The Four Hundred Songs of War and Wisdom\", a translation of \"Purananuru\", Hart and his co-author Hank Heifetz were awarded the \"AAS South Asia Council (SAC) Ramanujan Book Prize\".\n\nHis \"Poets of The Tamil Anthologies\" (1979) was nominated for the American Book Award.\n\nIn 2015, Hart was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India for his contributions to the study and translation of Indian literature, particularly the Sangam literature of ancient Tamil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952572", "title": "Voronoi", "text": "Voronoi\n\nVoronoi or Voronoy is a Slavic masculine surname; its feminine counterpart is Voronaya. It may refer to\n"}
{"id": "1952576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952576", "title": "Finding the Rhythms", "text": "Finding the Rhythms\n\nFinding the Rhythms was released in 1995 by Toybox Records and No Idea Records. It is a collection of some of their earliest recordings, which appear on various other releases.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952579", "title": "Greer, Arizona", "text": "Greer, Arizona\n\nGreer is an unincorporated community and census-designated place in Apache County, Arizona, United States. It lies at an elevation of approximately in the White Mountains of Arizona, and is surrounded by the Apache-Sitgreaves National Forest. As of the 2010 census it had a population of 41. Greer was founded around 1879 by Mormon settlers from Utah. The Greer post office has the ZIP code of 85927.\n\nGreer is a town located near the towns of Springerville and Eagar in northeast Arizona, near the New Mexico border. Its position in the valley of the Little Colorado River near various lakes means that temperatures are significantly milder than surrounding areas. Sunrise Park Resort, a skiing resort, is located about half an hour's drive west.\n\nWhile Greer is a four hour drive from Phoenix and a four-and-a-half hour drive from Tucson, it remains one of the most popular summer vacation destinations in Arizona, as it is consistently 20-30 degrees cooler than the deserts.\n\nGreer was founded by Mormon Willard Lee and his family in 1879. A small community named Lee Valley gradually developed. The Post Office requested a shorter name, so Greer (after Americus Vespucius Greer, a town planner who had recently moved to the area) was settled on.\n\nOn June 8, 2011, portions of the east side of town were overrun by the Wallow Fire. While some buildings were destroyed, most of the structures in town remain intact.\n\nGreer has a humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dfb\"). \n\nThe United States Postal Service operates the Greer Post Office.\n\nThe Apache County Library District operates the Greer Memorial Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952584", "title": "U Street", "text": "U Street\n\nThe U Street Corridor, sometimes called Cardozo/Shaw or Cardozo, is a commercial and residential district in Northwest Washington, D.C., most of which also constitutes the Greater U Street Historic District. It is centered along a nine-block stretch of U Street from 9th to 18th streets NW, from the 1920s until the 1960s was the city's black entertainment hub, called \"Black Broadway\" and \"the heart of black culture in Washington, D.C.\". After a period of decline following the 1968 riots, the economy picked up with the 1991 opening of the U Street metro station. With subsequent gentrification the population diversified and as of 2017 is est. 67% non-Hispanic White and 18% African American. Since 2013, thousands of new residents have moved into large new luxury apartment buildings. U Street is now promoted as a \"happening\" neighborhood for upscale yet \"hip\" and \"eclectic\" dining and shopping, its live music and nightlife, as well as one of the most significant African American heritage districts in the country.\n\nThe U Street Corridor is bounded by:\n\nIn addition to U Street itself, 14th Street is a major retail, dining and entertainment corridor. Retailers located on 14th near U include Room and Board, West Elm, and Lululemon.\n\nThe area is often referred to as U Street Corridor. However, historically and contemporary, the area has been known by other names:\n\n\nU Street is a largely Victorian-era neighborhood, developed between 1862 and 1900, the majority of which has been designated as the Greater U Street historic district.\n\nAt the time of the Civil War, the area was woods and open fields. The Union command chose this area for military encampments including Camp Barker near 13th and R streets and others in what is now the Shaw neighborhood proper. The encampments were safe havens for freed slaves fleeing the South, and thus the area became a popular one for African Americans to settle.\n\nAfter the war, horse-drawn streetcar lines opened, running north from downtown Washington along 7th, 9th and 14th streets, making the area an easily accessible place to live. The lines were later turned into cable cars. Both blacks and whites lived here, gradually shifting to a predominantly African American population between 1900 and 1920.\n\nThe area's oldest buildings are Italianate, Second Empire and Queen Anne-style row houses built rapidly by speculative developers in response to the city's high demand for housing with the post-Civil War growth of the federal government.\n\nUntil the 1920s, when it was overtaken by Harlem, the U Street Corridor was home to the nation's largest urban African American community. The area was home to the Industrial Bank, the city's oldest African American-owned bank, and to hundreds of black-owned and black-friendly businesses, churches, theaters, gyms, and other community spaces. Natives of the area included jazz musician Duke Ellington, opera singer Lillian Evanti, surgeon Charles R. Drew, and law professor Charles Hamilton Houston.\n\nIn its cultural heyday – roughly consisting of the years between 1900 and the early 1960s – the U Street Corridor was known as \"Black Broadway\", a phrase coined by singer Pearl Bailey. Performers who played the local clubs of the era included Cab Calloway, Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Sarah Vaughan, Billie Holiday, and Jelly Roll Morton, among many others. During Prohibition, U Street was also home to many of the capital's 2,000-3,000 speakeasies, which some historians credit for helping integrate a city long divided between black and white.\n\nFrom 1911 to 1963, the west end of the U Street neighborhood was anchored by Griffith Stadium, home of the District's baseball team, the Washington Senators. The Lincoln Theatre opened in 1921, and Howard Theatre in 1926. Duke Ellington's childhood home was located on 13th street between T and S Streets.\n\nThe Green Book, a travel guide for black travelers (1933–1963) listed many sites along U Street NW by Green Book Travelers.\n\nWhile the area remained a cultural center for the African American community through the 1960s, the neighborhood began to decline following the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1968. The intersection of 14th Street and U Street was the epicenter of violence and destruction during the 1968 Washington, D.C. riots. Following the riots, and the subsequent flight of affluent residents and businesses from the area, the corridor became blighted. Drug trafficking rose dramatically in the mid-1970s, when the intersection of 14th and U Streets was an area of drug trafficking in Washington, D.C.\n\nFollowing the economic downturn the area faced following the 1968 riots, the community and DC government launched numerous redevelopment efforts.\n\nExamples include:\n\nIn the 1990s, revitalization of Adams Morgan and later Logan Circle began. More than 2,000 luxury condominiums and apartments were constructed between 1997 and 2007. As the area improved and became more attractive Washingtonians of all races and ethnicities, and of higher incomes and wealth, to live there, the ethnic mix of the neighborhood changed dramatically: in 2000 it was roughly 20% white and 60% black; while by 2010 that had reversed and the it was roughly 60% white and 20% black (see \"Demographics\" below).\n\nRedevelopment continued further into the 2000s and 2010s, along with rising concerns about gentrification.\n\nSince 2013, more than 700 residential units have been added to the neighborhood in large luxury buildings with street-level retail. This represents a significant population increase versus the population of 4,572 registered in the 2010 census.\n\nIn 2011, U Street NW was designated a Great Street among Great Places in America by the American Planning Association. It is said to have been selected for in recognition of the street return to its grandeur after several decades of difficulties. Once again, the street hosts the arts, food, and businesses. The community works to embrace its historical significance for the African American community of Washington, D.C. during segregation.\nThe neighborhood's landmark buildings are nearly all the works of prominent early 20th century African American architects, including:\n\nOther landmarks include:\n\nCultural Tourism DC has placed signs on a self-guided Greater U Street neighborhood heritage trail and operates the Greater U Street Visitor Center at 1211 U Street NW.\n\nU Street has long been a center of Washington's music scene, with the Lincoln Theatre (1922), Howard Theatre, Bohemian Caverns (1926), and other clubs like on 9th Street at Harrington's, and Chez Maurice Restaurants and historic jazz venues. The , the Black Cat, DC9, U Street Music Hall, and the Velvet Lounge musical venues are located on the corridor, which is also home to the D.C. music collective Spelling for Bees. U Street also hosts the annual Funk Parade, a festival and celebration of funk music, community arts, and creativity. Public art, street art or graffiti and murals can be found on almost every corner along U Street.\n\nSince 2013 numerous large mixed use residential buildings with retail on the ground floor have been built into the corridor including: \n\nRetailers located on 14th Street near U Street include Room and Board, West Elm, Trader Joe's and Lululemon.\n\nThe Corridor is served by the U Street station of the Washington Metro (subway), with service on the Green Line and during rush hours on the Yellow Line as well. WMATA buses run along both U and 14th streets, and the DC Circulator Woodley Park-Adams Morgan-McPherson Square line stops at 14th and U. Capital Bikeshare and various scooter-sharing systems have stations/vehicles in the area.\n\nCensus tract 44 is bounded by 14th, S, and 7th streets and Florida Av. NW, thus including the entire U Street Corridor plus four blocks east of 9th St. NW. This tract counted a population of 5,385 in the 2017 American Community Survey, more than double the 1990 population, an increase reflecting among other things residents of new luxury complexes in which since 2010, 700 new residential units were added (see \"#Residential\" above). The official census count was 4,572 in 2010, an 87% increase from only 2,450 in 2000, thus reversing the trend of a decreasing population from 2,951 in 1990 and 3,598 in 1980.\n\n6.8% were children in 2010, sharply down from 27% in 1990. Seniors also showed a decline at 4.8% in 2010, down from 8.6% in 1990. The foreign-born population was 18% in 2011-15, up from only 2.3% in 1980.\n\nThe per capita income in 2017 was est. $110,175 ±$10,961, more than double the average in D.C. ($50,832 ±$645); the Median household income was est. $166,071, more than$166,071, more than double the D.C. average of $77,649.\n\nThe racial change in the tract's population has been dramatic; black non-Hispanic population was 18% in 2017, down from 22% in 2010, and sharply down from 58% in 2000 and 77% in 1990; corresponding to an increase in the white non-Hispanic population (67% in 2017, 61% in 2010, 22% in 2000, 8.7% in 1990). The Hispanic population was 9.1% in 2010, down from 17% in 2000 and 12% in 1990, and the Asian/Pacific Islander population was 6.8% in 2010, up from 1.7% in 2000 and 1.6% in 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952591", "title": "Tell Halaf", "text": "Tell Halaf\n\nTell Halaf () is an archaeological site in the Al Hasakah governorate of northeastern Syria, near the Turkish border, just opposite Ceylanpınar. The site, which dates to the 6th millennium BCE, was the first to be excavated from a Neolithic culture, later called the Halaf culture, characterized by glazed pottery painted with geometric and animal designs.\n\nIn the Bronze Age it was a Hittite ruling city, and then in the 10th century BCE the location of the Aramaean city-state of Guzana or Gozan. By the end of the 9th century it was a famous Aramean kingsize. The many finds of monumental sculpture removed to various museums around the world mostly date from the later periods. In modern times, during the Syrian Civil War, People's Protection Units took control of the area.\n\nThe site is located near the city of Ra's al-'Ayn in the fertile valley of the Khabur River (Nahr al-Khabur), close to the modern border with Turkey. The name \"Tell Halaf\" is a local Aramaic placename, \"tell\" meaning \"hill\", and \"Tell Halaf\" meaning \"made of former city\"; what its original inhabitants called their settlement is not known.\n\nIn 1899, when the area was part of the Ottoman Empire, Max von Oppenheim, a German diplomat travelled through northern Mesopotamia on behalf of Deutsche Bank, working on establishing a route for the Bagdad Railway. On 19 November, he discovered Tell Halaf, following up on tales told to him by local villagers of stone idols buried beneath the sand. Within three days, several significant pieces of statuary were uncovered, including the so-called \"Sitting Goddess\". A test pit uncovered the entrance to the \"Western Palace\". Since he had no legal permit to excavate, Oppenheim had the statues he found reburied and moved on.\n\nAccording to noted archaeologist Ernst Herzfeld, he had urged Oppenheim in 1907 to excavate Tell Halaf and they made some initial plans towards this goal at that time. In August 1910, Herzfeld wrote a letter calling on Oppenheim to explore the site and had it circulated to several leading archaeologists like Theodor Noldeke or Ignaz Goldziher to sign. Armed with this letter, Max von Oppenheim was now able to ask for his dismissal from the diplomatic service (which he did on 24 October 1910) while being able to call on financing from his father for the excavation.\n\nWith a team of five archaeologists, Oppenheim planned a digging campaign that began on 5 August 1911. Substantial amounts of equipment were imported from Germany, including a small steam train. The costs totaled around 750,000 Mark and were covered by von Oppenheim's father. On arrival, the archaeologists discovered that since 1899 locals had uncovered some of the findings and heavily damaged them – in part out of superstition, in part to gain valuable building material.\n\nDuring the excavations Oppenheim found the ruins of the town of Guzana (or Gozan). Significant finds included the large statues and reliefs of the so-called \"Western Palace\" built by King Kapara, as well as a cult room and tombs. Some of the statuary was found reused in buildings from the Hellenistic period. In addition, they discovered Neolithic pottery of a type which became known as \"Halaf culture\" after the site where it was first found. At the time, this was the oldest painted pottery ever found (together with those discovered at Samarra by Herzfeld).\n\nIn 1913, Oppenheim decided to return temporarily to Germany. The finds of Tell Halaf were left at the building he and his team had inhabited during the dig. Most of them were securely packaged and stored. The outbreak of World War I prevented Oppenheim from returning, however.\n\nIn 1926, Germany joined the League of Nations and it thus became possible for German nationals to conduct excavations in what was now the French Mandate of Syria. Preparing for new excavations, in 1927 Oppenheim again travelled to Tell Halaf. Artillery fire exchanged between Osman and French troops in the final days of the war had severely damaged the building and the archaeological findings had to be dug out of the rubble. Once again, it was found that the locals had damaged some of the stone workings. Since he had made plaster casts during the original excavation, Oppenheim was able to repair most of the damage done to the statues and orthostat reliefs. He managed to achieve a generous division of his previous finds with the French authorities. His share (approximately 80, or about two-thirds of the total) was transported to Berlin, while the other 35 were brought to Aleppo to form a core collection of today's National Museum. In 1929, he resumed excavations and the new findings were divided.\n\nAttempts by Oppenheim to have his findings exhibited at the newly constructed Pergamon Museum in Berlin failed, as the museum refused to agree to Oppenheim's financial demands. He thus opened his own private \"Tell Halaf Museum\" in an industrial complex in Berlin-Charlottenburg in July 1930. The museum's concept of presenting the exhibits is considered quite modern even by today's standards.\n\nIn 1939, Oppenheim once more travelled to Syria for excavations, coming within sight of Tell Halaf. However, the French authorities refused to award him a permit to dig and he had to depart. Oppenheim also unsuccessfully tried to sell some of his finds in New York and again negotiated with the German government about the purchase of the Tell Halaf artefacts. In 1943, eight German-owned orthostat reliefs stored in New York were seized by the US Office of Alien Property Custodian. Amid these negotiations and activities, the Tell Halaf Museum in Berlin was hit by a British phosphorus bomb in November 1943. It burnt down completely, all wooden and limestone exhibits were destroyed. Those made from basalt were exposed to a thermal shock during attempts to fight the fire and severely damaged. Many statues and reliefs burst into dozens of pieces. Although the Vorderasiatisches Museum Berlin took care of the remains, months passed before all of the pieces had been recovered and they were further damaged by frost and summer heat. \n\nStored in the cellars of the Pergamon Museum during the period of communist rule under the GDR, the remains were left untouched. After reunification, the \"Masterplan Museumsinsel\" of 1999 brought up the idea of having the Western Palace front from Tell Halaf restored. With financial support from Sal. Oppenheim and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft the Vorderasiatisches Museum engaged in its largest-scale restoration project since the reconstruction of the Ishtar Gate. From 2001 to 2010, more than 30 sculptures were reconstructed out of around 27,000 fragments. They were exhibited at the Pergamon Museum in Berlin in 2011 and at the Bundeskunsthalle Bonn in 2014. When the reconstruction of the Museumsinsel is completed around 2025, the Western Palace façade will be the entrance to the new Vorderasiatisches Museum.\n\nIn 2006, new Syro-German excavations were started under the direction of Lutz Martin (Vorderasiatisches Museum Berlin), Abd al-Masih Bagdo (Directorate of Antiquities Hassake), Jörg Becker (University of Halle) and Mirko Novák (University of Bern).\n\nTell Halaf is the type site of the Halaf culture, which developed from Neolithic III at this site without any strong break. The Tell Halaf site flourished from about 6,100 to 5,400 BCE, a period of time that is referred to as the \"Halaf period\". The Halaf culture was succeeded in northern Mesopotamia by the Ubaid culture. The site was then abandoned for a long period.\n\nIn the 10th century BCE, the rulers of the small Aramaean kingdom Bit Bahiani took their seat in Tell Halaf, which was re-founded as Guzana. King Kapara built the so-called hilani, a palace in Neo-Hittite style with a rich decoration of statues and relief orthostats.\n\nIn 894 BCE, the Assyrian king Adad-nirari II recorded the site in his archives as a tributary Aramaean city-state. In 808 BCE, the city and its surrounding area was reduced to a province of the Assyrian Empire. The governor's seat was a palace in the eastern part of the citadel mound. Guzana survived the collapse of the Assyrian Empire and remained inhabited until the Roman-Parthian Period.\n\nIn historical times, the mound itself became the citadel of the Aramaean and Assyrian city. The lower town extended 600 m N–S and 1000 m E–W. The citadel mound housed the palaces and other official buildings. Most prominent are the so-called Hilani or \"Western Palace\" with its rich decor, dating back to the time of King Kapara, and the \"North-Eastern Palace\", the seat of the Assyrian governors. In the lower town a temple (or cult room) in Assyrian style was discovered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952606", "title": "C'mon N' Ride It (The Train)", "text": "C'mon N' Ride It (The Train)\n\n\"C'mon N' Ride It (The Train)\" is a popular dance song performed by Florida group Quad City DJ's in 1995, and released in 1996 as a single from the album \"Get On Up and Dance\". It is based on a sample of Barry White's 1974 main theme from soundtrack to the film \"Together Brothers\". The song peaked at number three on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and reached the top 40 in Australia and New Zealand. It was ranked the number-one song of 1996 by \"Village Voice\" magazine, and in 2010, \"Pitchfork Media\" included the song as one of their \"Ten actually good 90s Jock Jams\". The song is also used in a wide variety of sports events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952607", "title": "Supernature (Goldfrapp album)", "text": "Supernature (Goldfrapp album)\n\nSupernature is the third studio album by English electronic music duo Goldfrapp, released on 17 August 2005 by Mute Records. The album received generally favourable reviews, with most critics complimenting its blend of pop and electronic music. It debuted at number two on the UK Albums Chart with first-week sales of 52,976 copies, and was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry. \"Supernature\" has sold one million copies worldwide.\n\nThe album's lead single, \"Ooh La La\", reached number four on the UK Singles Chart, becoming the duo's highest-peaking single to date. The album spawned three further singles: \"Number 1\", \"Ride a White Horse\" and \"Fly Me Away\". In North America, where \"Number 1\" was promoted as the first single, the album was released on 7 March 2006 and reached number 138 on the charts. \"Supernature\" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Electronic/Dance Album in 2007.\n\n\"Supernature\" contains music in the same pop and electronic dance styles featured on Goldfrapp's previous studio album, \"Black Cherry\" (2003)—especially its singles \"Strict Machine\" and \"Twist\"—although it focuses on subtle hooks instead of large choruses. Lead singer Alison Goldfrapp described the album's writing process as \"an electronic/glam cross between Berlin, New York and North-East Somerset\".\n\nGoldfrapp and Will Gregory recorded the bulk of \"Supernature\" in late 2004 in the countryside near Bath, England—the same place they recorded \"Black Cherry\". They had rented a small house and spent some months writing music; they later explained that the unpopulated location kept them from distractions and that the majority of the process was \"very basic\". Goldfrapp called their writing relationship a \"democracy\", playing off one another while in the recording studio. The lyrical content of the song \"Number 1\", which became the album's second single, is about the importance and meaning of relationships, even though they do not necessarily last.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Daily Telegraph\", Goldfrapp explained that they had never intended to create pop music. However, the singles released from \"Black Cherry\" became successes across nightclubs in North America, and as a result, they decided to write a more dance-oriented album. Although this made the duo nervous, \"Ooh La La\" was the group's first song to feature the electric guitar. Before its composition, the duo avoided the use of the guitar because of the guitar's overly recognisable rhythm. Four-on-the-floor bass drums are also present on several of the album's tracks, and the piano ballad \"Let It Take You\" features evening-effects composed on a synthesiser. \"You Never Know\" begins with Alison Goldfrapp executing a synthesised voice, supported by both pads and synthesisers. Goldfrapp and Gregory have cited \"Satin Chic\" as their favourite song on \"Supernature\".\n\nAlison Goldfrapp named the Roland String synth as one of her favourite keyboards. \"Number 1\" features an old synth and a bass arrangement that the group began to use frequently after recording the song. Another Roland keyboard, the SH-09 monophonic synthesiser first produced in 1979, is another favourite; she played the duo's song \"Train\" (2003) on it and enjoys the sounds that it makes. Goldfrapp was also impressed by a Russian synth, enamored with its Russian-language writing.\n\n\"Ooh La La\", \"Supernature\"'s opening track, inspired by T. Rex, was chosen as its lead single \"because it was up and in your face and it carried on the theme of the glammy, discoey beat from the last album\". It was the duo's first song to feature the electric guitar, and received positive reviews, often being noted as a highlight of the album. \"Ooh La La\" became Goldfrapp's most successful single on the UK Singles Chart to date when it peaked at number four, while topping the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Play chart in the United States. The second track, \"Lovely 2 C U\", received mixed reviews from critics, with one reviewer stating that it was the \"worst offender of sounding by-numbers, its lazy glam affectations sounding all the worse amid a chorus striking only in its complete dullness\".\n\n\"Ride a White Horse\", the third single, was inspired by the disco era. Like previous singles from the album, the song was another top-20 single in the UK, where it peaked at number 15. The ballads \"You Never Know\" and \"Let It Take You\" have minimal background electronics, and were generally well received by critics, who drew comparisons to Goldfrapp's debut album \"Felt Mountain\". Goldfrapp's performance on \"You Never Know\" was described as \"chameleonic\" with odes to Debbie Harry and Siouxsie Sioux. \"Fly Me Away\", another synth ballad, had an associated music video which featured Goldfrapp as an animated doll; the video, however, was never released. Serving as the fourth and final single from \"Supernature\", the song was not heavily promoted and was less commercially successful than the other singles, peaking at number 26 on the UK chart. \"Slide In\", an electroclash song about sex, and \"Koko\" were compared to Gary Numan's early compositions.\n\n\"Satin Chic\" is a disco song with glam rock and cabaret influences, similar to early Elton John. Cited by Goldfrapp and Gregory as their favourite song on \"Supernature\", it was remixed by The Flaming Lips, and issued as a limited-edition single on 4 September 2006. The 10th track, \"Time Out from the World\", features an orchestra and whispered vocals by Goldfrapp. Critics liked the song, writing that it was an \"exception to the prevailing style of \"Supernature\"\" due to its \"haunting, yet glamorous, atmospherics\". The album's closing track and second single \"Number 1\" is about the importance and meanings of relationships. The song, which is based around a synth and bass arrangement, reached number nine on the UK Singles Chart and number one on the US Hot Dance Club Play chart.\n\nThe album was released in two versions: a single-disc version, which used Opendisc technology to offer extras via a website, and a double-disc version which included the album in surround sound on both discs. The first disc is a hybrid SACD with 5.1 multichannel SACD audio, stereo SACD audio and stereo CD audio. The second disc, a DVD-Video, contains the multichannel version of the album in DTS 96/24 as well as a documentary and music videos for \"Ooh La La\" and \"Number 1\".\n\nThe album cover, photographed by Ross Kirton, is a rear-view shot of Alison against a sparkly black background, looking over her shoulder while covering her breast with her hand. The regular edition cover shows her from the waist up, whereas the US special edition shows the cover art in its entirety, with Alison wearing a long plume of peacock feathers and golden platform shoes. In late 2005, the album ranked number eight on the annual Best Art Vinyl poll.\n\n\"Supernature\" received positive reviews from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 79, based on 27 reviews, which indicates \"generally favorable reviews\". Dorian Lynskey of \"The Guardian\" said that the album was \"a brash, beautiful celebration of love and dancing\". In a review for \"PopMatters\", Adrien Begrand said that \"[a]lthough \"Supernature\" lacks the imagination of \"Felt Mountain\" and the saucy brilliance of \"Black Cherry\", it doesn't pander to the pop crowd.\" Lauren Gitlin of \"Rolling Stone\" said the album was \"[t]oxic and delicious\" and that \"\"Supernature\" will make you do bad things—and like it.\" However, \"Pitchfork\" reviewer Nitsuh Abebe was less impressed, and wrote that the album's songs \"keep feeling like exercises: too thick and melodic to work like dance music, but with melodies that refuse to stick as satisfyingly as pop.\" Michael Hubbard of musicOMH wrote a review for every song on \"Supernature\", and although he felt that it was a \"curious, rather than classic, record\", he criticised it for \"fading out early on, with poor, low quality songs at the end which leave the listener feeling cheated\". AllMusic critic Heather Phares called \"Supernature\" \"Goldfrapp's most accessible album\" and named \"Ooh La La\" as its best song.\n\nIn a review for Canadian-based website Jam!, Andrew Carver praised the different sounds on \"Supernature\", which range from \"a blend of future noise\" to \"crushed velvet corruption\"; he described the album as \"one sharp recording\". Jessica Suarez of \"Spin\" magazine compared \"Ooh La La\" to \"Black Cherry\"'s \"Strict Machine\", saying that \"Ooh La La\" sounds \"so simplistic that [its] minimalist repetition occasionally teeters over into redundancy\". She praised \"Ride a White Horse\" and \"Fly Me Away\" for featuring Alison Goldfrapp's \"velvet-soft vocals, which stay that way even when heavily processed\". A less favourable reception came from \"Stylus Magazine\" reviewer Edward Oculicz, who stated \"\"Supernature\" is not a great album\" and called several of its tracks too \"dull\".\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked the album at number 32 on its list of The Top 50 Albums of 2006. In January 2008, the album was included on \"The Daily Telegraph\"'s list of the 120 essential pop albums. At the 2007 Grammy Awards, Goldfrapp received nominations for Best Electronic/Dance Album and Best Dance Recording for \"Ooh La La\".\n\n\"Supernature\" debuted on the UK Albums Chart at number two (blocked from the top position by James Blunt's \"Back to Bedlam\"), selling 52,976 copies in its first week. The album was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry on 13 January 2006. By 20 December 2010, the album had sold 500,000 copies in the United Kingdom. The album attained moderate success across Europe, reaching the top 10 in Ireland, the top 20 in Belgium, the top 30 in Germany and Switzerland, and the top 40 in Austria, Italy, the Netherlands and Norway. In Oceania, it peaked at number 23 in Australia and number 35 in New Zealand.\n\n\"Supernature\" became Goldfrapp's first album to chart on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart in the United States, where it peaked at number 138. It reached number three on the Top Heatseekers chart and number five on the Top Electronic Albums chart. The album had sold 49,000 copies in the US as of August 2006. \"Supernature\" was also the duo's first release in Canada, reaching number 88 on the Canadian Albums Chart. The album had sold one million copies worldwide as of February 2008.\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Supernature\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1952620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952620", "title": "Wasabröd", "text": "Wasabröd\n\nThe Swedish company Wasabröd is the largest producer in the world of Scandinavian style crispbread (). The Wasabröd company has been in business since 1919, opening its first bakery in the city of Skellefteå. Since 1983 it has been under foreign ownership, first by the Swiss pharmaceutical corporation Sandoz (later merged with Ciba Geigy to become Novartis), and from 1999 by the Italian food producer Barilla Alimentare S.p.A..\nThe first bakery in Skellefteå, founded by Karl Edvard Lundström, was supplemented by another, completely mechanized, one in Filipstad in 1931, which has since become the main seat of the corporation. It later acquired several other Swedish bakeries. It started exporting bread in the 1940s, with the first foreign subsidiary founded in Denmark in 1965 and the first foreign bakery built in Celle in Germany in 1967. In the early 21st century Wasabröd sells about 80% of its production outside Sweden.\n\nK. E. Lundström, the founder of the company, had run his own bakery in Skellefteå since 1915 (\"Firma K. E. Lundström\"), with the corporation founded in 1919, \"AB Skellefteå spisbrödsfabrik\", taking its original name from the hometown. The Filipstad subsidiary which developed into the main part of the company took the name \"AB Wasa spisbrödsfabrik\" in 1934, which was shortened to \"AB Wasabröd\" in 1964. The brand \"Wasa\" was originally that of one particular product, \"Vasaknäcke\", featuring an image of King Gustavus Vasa. The company has used both a royal crown and the peculiar heraldic charge, the garb (), which gave name to the Vasa dynasty, in its marketing. (Using the letter \"W\" instead of \"V\" is an archaism in Swedish; it is not uncommon in marketing, but does not affect the pronunciation.)\nWasabröd produces a wide variety of crispbreads. The original crisp bread is made of rye, but their various products include sesame, wheat, and other grains. Like matzo, Wasa is noted for its shelf longevity.\n\nThe company has the status of a Purveyor to the Royal Court of Sweden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952627", "title": "History of chess", "text": "History of chess\n\nThe history of chess can be traced back nearly 1500 years, although the earliest origins are uncertain. The earliest predecessor of the game probably originated in India, before the 6th century AD. From India, the game spread to Persia. When the Arabs conquered Persia, chess was taken up by the Muslim world and subsequently spread to Southern Europe. In Europe, chess evolved into roughly its current form in the 15th century.\n\n\"Romantic chess\" was the predominant chess playing style from the late 15th century to the 1880s. Chess games of this period emphasised more on quick, tactical maneuvers rather than long-term strategic planning. The Romantic era of play was followed by the Scientific, Hypermodern, and New Dynamism eras.\nIn the second half of the 19th century, modern chess tournament play began, and the first World Chess Championship was held in 1886. The 20th century saw great leaps forward in chess theory and the establishment of the World Chess Federation (FIDE). In 1997, a computer first beat a chess world champion in the famous Deep Blue versus Garry Kasparov match, ushering in an era of computer domination. Since then, computer analysis – which originated in the 1970s with the first programmed chess games on the market – has contributed to much of the development in chess theory and has become an important part of preparation in professional human chess. Later developments in the 21st century made the use of computer analysis far surpassing the ability of any human player accessible to the public. Online gaming, which first appeared in the mid-1990s, also became popular in the 21st century.\n\nChess remains a highly popular pastime to this day. A 2012 survey found that \"chess players now make up one of the largest communities in the world: 605 million adults play chess regularly\". Chess is played at least once a year by 12% of British people, 15% of Americans, 23% of Germans, 43% of Russians, and 70% of Indian people.\n\nPrecursors to chess originated in India during the Gupta Empire. There, its early form in the 6th century was known as \"chaturaṅga\", which translates as \"four divisions (of the military)\": infantry, cavalry, elephantry, and chariotry. These forms are represented by the pieces that would evolve into the modern pawn, knight, bishop, and rook, respectively.\n\nChess was introduced to Persia from India and became a part of the princely or courtly education of Persian nobility.\nIn Sassanid Persia around 600 the name became \"chatrang\", which subsequently evolved to \"shatranj\", due to Arab Muslims' lack of \"ch\" and \"ng\" native sounds, and the rules were developed further. Players started calling \"Shāh!\" (Persian for \"King!\") when attacking the opponent's king, and \"Shāh Māt!\" (Persian for \"the king is helpless\" – see checkmate) when the king was attacked and could not escape from attack. These exclamations persisted in chess as it traveled to other lands.\n\nThe game was taken up by the Muslim world after the Islamic conquest of Persia, with the pieces largely keeping their Persian names. The Moors of North Africa rendered Persian \"\"shatranj\"\" as \"shaṭerej\", which gave rise to the Spanish \"acedrex\", \"axedrez\" and \"ajedrez\"; in Portuguese it became \"xadrez\", and in Greek \"zatrikion\", but in the rest of Europe it was replaced by versions of the Persian \"shāh\" (\"king\"). Thus, the game came to be called \"ludus scacchorum\" or \"scacc(h)i\" in Latin, \"scacchi\" in Italian, \"escacs\" in Catalan, \"échecs\" in French (Old French \"eschecs\"); \"schaken\" in Dutch, \"Schach\" in German, \"szachy\" in Polish, \"šahs\" in Latvian, \"skak\" in Danish, \"sjakk\" in Norwegian, \"schack\" in Swedish, \"šakki\" in Finnish, \"šah\" in South Slavic languages, \"sakk\" in Hungarian and \"şah\" in Romanian; there are two theories about why this change happened:\n\nThe Mongols call the game \"shatar\", and in Ethiopia it is called \"senterej\", both evidently derived from \"shatranj\".\n\nChess spread directly from the Middle East to Russia, where chess became known as шахматы (\"shakhmaty\", literally \"checkmates\", a plurale tantum).\n\nThe game reached Western Europe and Russia by at least three routes, the earliest being in the 9th century. By the year 1000 it had spread throughout Europe. Introduced into the Iberian Peninsula by the Moors in the 10th century, it was described in a famous 13th-century manuscript covering \"shatranj\", backgammon and dice named the \"Libro de los juegos\".\n\nChess spread throughout the world and many variants of the game soon began taking shape. Buddhist pilgrims, Silk Road traders and others carried it to the Far East where it was transformed and assimilated into a game often played on the intersection of the lines of the board rather than within the squares. \"Chaturanga\" reached Europe through Persia, the Byzantine empire and the expanding Arabian empire. Muslims carried chess to North Africa, Sicily, and Iberia by the 10th century.\n\nThe game was developed extensively in Europe. By the late 15th century, it had survived a series of prohibitions and Christian Church sanctions to almost take the shape of the modern game. Modern history saw reliable reference works, competitive chess tournaments, and exciting new variants. These factors added to the game's popularity, further bolstered by reliable timing mechanisms (first introduced in 1861), effective rules, and charismatic players.\n\nThe earliest precursor of modern chess is a game called chaturanga, which flourished in India by the 6th century, and is the earliest known game to have two essential features found in all later chess variations—different pieces having different powers (which was not the case with checkers and Go), and victory depending on the fate of one piece, the king of modern chess. A common theory is that India's development of the board, and chess, was likely due to India's mathematical enlightenment involving the creation of the number zero. Other game pieces (speculatively called \"chess pieces\") uncovered in archaeological findings are considered as coming from other, distantly related board games, which may have had boards of 100 squares or more.\n\nChess was designed for an \"ashtāpada\" (Sanskrit for \"having eight feet\", i.e. an 8×8 squared board), which may have been used earlier for a backgammon-type race game (perhaps related to a dice-driven race game still played in south India where the track starts at the middle of a side and spirals into the center). Ashtāpada, the uncheckered 8×8 board served as the main board for playing chaturanga. Other Indian boards included the 10×10 \"Dasapada\" and the 9×9 \"Saturankam\". Traditional Indian chessboards often have X markings on some or all of squares a1 a4 a5 a8 d1 d4 d5 d8 e1 e4 e5 e8 h1 h4 h5 h8: these may have been \"safe squares\" where capturing was not allowed in a dice-driven backgammon-type race game played on the ashtāpada before chess was invented.\n\nThe Cox-Forbes theory, proposed in the late 18th century by Hiram Cox, and later developed by Duncan Forbes, asserted that the four-handed game chaturaji was the original form of chaturanga. The theory is no longer considered tenable.\n\nIn Sanskrit, \"chaturanga\" (चतुरङ्ग) literally means \"having four limbs (or parts)\" and in epic poetry often means \"army\" (the four parts are elephants, chariots, horsemen, foot soldiers). The name came from a battle formation mentioned in the Indian epic Mahabharata. The game chaturanga was a battle-simulation game which rendered Indian military strategy of the time.\n\nSome people formerly played chess using a die to decide which piece to move. There was an unproven theory that chess started as this dice-chess and that the gambling and dice aspects of the game were removed because of Hindu religious objections.\n\nScholars in areas to which the game subsequently spread, for example the Arab Abu al-Hasan 'Alī al-Mas'ūdī, detailed the Indian use of chess as a tool for military strategy, mathematics, gambling and even its vague association with astronomy. Mas'ūdī notes that ivory in India was chiefly used for the production of chess and backgammon pieces, and asserts that the game was introduced to Persia from India, along with the book \"Kelileh va Demneh,\" during the reign of emperor Nushirwan.\n\nIn some variants, a win was by checkmate, or by stalemate, or by \"bare king\" (taking all of an opponent's pieces except the king).\n\nIn some parts of India the pieces in the places of the rook, knight and bishop were renamed by words meaning (in this order) Boat, Horse, and Elephant, or Elephant, Horse, and Camel, but keeping the same moves.\n\nIn early chess the moves of the pieces were:\nTwo Arab travelers each recorded a severe Indian chess rule against stalemate:\n\nThe Karnamak-i Ardeshir-i Papakan, a Pahlavi epical treatise about the founder of the Sassanid Persian Empire, mentions the game of \"chatrang\" as one of the accomplishments of the legendary hero, Ardashir I, founder of the Empire. The oldest recorded game in chess history is a 10th-century game played between a historian from Baghdad and a pupil.\n\nA manuscript explaining the rules of the game called \"Matikan-i-chatrang\" (the book of chess) in Middle Persian or Pahlavi still exists.\nIn the 11th-century \"Shahnameh\", Ferdowsi describes a Raja visiting from India who re-enacts the past battles on the chessboard. A translation in English, based on the manuscripts in the British Museum, is given below:\n\nThe \"Shahnameh\" goes on to offer an apocryphal account of the origins of the game of chess in the story of Talhand and Gav, two half-brothers who vie for the throne of Hind (India). They meet in battle and Talhand dies on his elephant without a wound. Believing that Gav had killed Talhand, their mother is distraught. Gav tells his mother that Talhand did not die by the hands of him or his men, but she does not understand how this could be. So the sages of the court invent the game of chess, detailing the pieces and how they move, to show the mother of the princes how the battle unfolded and how Talhand died of fatigue when surrounded by his enemies. The poem uses the Persian term \"Shāh māt\" (check mate) to describe the fate of Talhand.\n\nThe philosopher and theologian Al-Ghazali mentions chess in \"The Alchemy of Happiness\" (c. 1100). He uses it as a specific example of a habit that may cloud a person's good disposition:\n\nThe appearance of the chess pieces had altered greatly since the times of chaturanga, with ornate pieces and chess pieces depicting animals giving way to abstract shapes. This is because of a Muslim ban on the game's lifelike pieces, as they were said to have brought upon images of idolatry. The Islamic sets of later centuries followed a pattern which assigned names and abstract shapes to the chess pieces, as Islam forbids depiction of animals and human beings in art. These pieces were usually made of simple clay and carved stone.\n\nThe Thai variant of chess, makruk, and the Cambodian Ouk-Chatrang are considered the closest living relatives to chaturanga, retaining the vizier, non-checkered board, limited promotion, offset kings, and elephant-like bishop move.\n\nAs a strategy board game played in China, chess is believed to have been derived from the Indian chaturanga. Chaturanga was transformed into the game xiangqi where the pieces are placed on the intersection of the lines of the board rather than within the squares. The object of the Chinese variation is similar to chaturanga, i.e. to render helpless the opponent's king, known as \"general\" on one side and \"governor\" on the other. Chinese chess also borrows elements from the game of Go, which was played in China since at least the 6th century BC. Owing to the influence of Go, Chinese chess is played on the intersections of the lines on the board, rather than in the squares. The game of Xianqi is also unique in that the middle rank represents a river, and is not divided into squares. Chinese chess pieces are usually flat and resemble those used in checkers, with pieces differentiated by writing their names on the flat surface.\n\nAn alternative origin theory contends that chess arose from xiangqi or a predecessor thereof, existing in China since the 3rd century BC. David H. Li, a translator of ancient Chinese texts, hypothesizes that general Han Xin drew on the earlier game of Liubo to develop an early form of Chinese chess in the winter of 204–203 BC. The German chess historian Peter Banaschak, however, points out that Li's main hypothesis \"is based on virtually nothing.\" He notes that the \"Xuanguai lu\", authored by the Tang Dynasty minister Niu Sengru (779–847), remains the first real source on the Chinese chess variant xiangqi.\n\nA prominent variant of chess in East Asia is the game of shogi, transmitted from India to China and Korea before finally reaching Japan. The three distinguishing features of shogi are:\n\nDrops were not originally part of shogi. In the 13th century, shogi underwent an expansion, creating the game of dai shogi, played on a 15×15 board with many new pieces, including the independently invented rook, bishop and queen of modern Western chess, the drunk elephant that promotes to a second king, and also the even more powerful lion, which among other idiosyncrasies has the power to move or capture twice per turn. Around the 14th or 15th centuries, the popularity of dai shogi then waned in favour of the smaller chu shogi, played on a smaller 12×12 board which removed the weakest pieces from dai shogi, similarly to the development of Courier chess in the West. In the meantime, the original 9×9 shogi, now termed sho shogi, continued to be played, but was regarded as less prestigious than chu shogi and dai shogi. Chu shogi was very popular in Japan, and the rook, bishop, and drunk elephant from it were added to sho shogi, where the first two remain today.\n\nChu shogi declined in popularity after the addition of drops to sho shogi and the removal of the drunk elephant in the 16th century, becoming moribund around the late 20th century. These changes to sho shogi created what is essentially the modern game of shogi.\n\nChess is recorded from Mongolian-inhabited areas, where the pieces are now called:\n\nNames recorded from the 1880s by Russian sources, quoted in Murray, among the Soyot people (who at the time spoke the Soyot Turkic language) include: \"merzé\" (dog), \"täbä\" (camel), \"ot\" (horse), \"ōl\" (child) and Mongolian names for the other pieces. This game is called shatar; a large 10×10 variant called hiashatar was also played.\n\nThe change with the queen is likely due to the Arabic word \"firzān\" or Persian word \"farzīn\" (= \"vizier\") being confused with Turkic or Mongolian native words (\"merzé\" = \"mastiff\", \"bar\" or \"bars\" = \"tiger\", \"arslan\" = \"lion\").\n\nChess in Mongolia is now played following standard rules.\n\nChess was also recorded from the Yakuts, Tunguses, and Yukaghirs; but only as a children's game among the Chukchi. Chessmen have been collected from the Yakutat people in Alaska, having no resemblance to European chessmen, and thus likely part of a chess tradition coming from Siberia.\n\nChess passed from Persia to the Arab world, where its name changed to Arabic shatranj. From there it passed to Western Europe, probably via Spain.\n\nOver the centuries, features of European chess (e.g. the modern moves of queen and bishop, and castling) found their way via trade into Islamic areas. Murray's sources found the old moves of queen and bishop still current in Ethiopia. The game became so popular it was used in writing at that time, played by nobility and regular people. The poet al-Katib once said, \"The skilled player places his pieces in such a way as to discover consequences that the ignorant man never sees... thus, he serves the Sultan's interests, by showing how to foresee disaster.\"\n\nChess has 1000 years of history in Russia. Chess was probably brought to Old Russia in 9th century via the Volga-Caspian trade route. From the 10th century cultural connections with the Byzantine Empire and the Vikings also influenced the history of chess in Russia. The vocabulary in Russian chess has various foreign-language elements and testifies to different influences in the evolution of chess in Russia. Chess is mentioned in folk poems as a popular game and is documented in the Old Russian \"byliny\". Numerous archeological finds of the chess game have already been found in the regions of Old Russia. From 1262 on chess was called in Russia \"shakhmaty\". Various foreign travellers commented that in the 16th century, chess was popular among all classes in Russia. Ivan IV the Terrible, who ruled Russia from 1530 to 1584, is said to have died while playing chess. In 1791 the popular chess book \"Morals of Chess\" by Benjamin Franklin was translated into Russian and published in the country. Chess enjoys a very high status in Russia and was gradually introduced as a school subject in all primary schools since 2017.\n\nShatranj made its way via the expanding Islamic Arabian empire to Europe. It also spread to the Byzantine empire, where it was called \"zatrikion\". Chess appeared in Southern Europe during the end of the first millennium, often introduced to new lands by conquering armies, such as the Norman Conquest of England. Previously little known, chess became popular in Northern Europe when figure pieces were introduced.\n\nIn the 14th century, Timur played an enlarged variation of the game which is commonly referred to as Tamerlane chess. This complex game involved each pawn having a particular purpose, as well as additional pieces.\n\nThe sides are conventionally called White and Black. But, in earlier European chess writings, the sides were often called Red and Black because those were the commonly available colours of ink when handwriting drawing a chess game layout. In such layouts, each piece was represented by its name, often abbreviated (e.g. \"ch'r\" for French \"chevalier\" = \"knight\").\n\nThe social value attached to the game – seen as a prestigious pastime associated with nobility and high culture – is clear from the expensive and exquisitely made chessboards of the medieval era. The popularity of chess in the Western courtly society peaked between the 12th and the 15th centuries. The game found mention in the vernacular and Latin language literature throughout Europe, and many works were written on or about chess between the 12th and the 15th centuries. H. J. R. Murray divides the works into three distinct parts: the didactic works e.g. Alexander of Neckham's \"De scaccis\" (c. 1180); works of morality like \"Liber de moribus hominum et officiis nobilium sive super ludo scacchorum\" (Book of the customs of men and the duties of nobles or the Book of Chess), written by Jacobus de Cessolis; and the works related to various chess problems, written largely after 1205. Chess terms, like \"check,\" were used by authors as a metaphor for various situations.\nChess was soon incorporated into the knightly style of life in Europe. Peter Alfonsi, in his work \"Disciplina Clericalis,\" listed chess among the seven skills that a good knight must acquire. Chess also became a subject of art during this period, with caskets and pendants decorated in various chess forms. Queen Margaret of England had green and red chess sets made of jasper and crystal. Kings Henry I, Henry II and Richard I of England were chess patrons. King Alfonso X of Castile and Tsar Ivan IV of Russia gained a similar status.\n\nSaint Peter Damian denounced the bishop of Florence in 1061 for playing chess even when aware of its evil effects on the society. The bishop of Florence defended himself by declaring that chess involved skill and was therefore \"unlike other games,\" and similar arguments followed in the coming centuries. Two incidents in 13th-century London, in which men of Essex resorted to violence resulting in death as an outcome of playing chess, caused further sensation and alarm. The growing popularity of the game – now associated with revelry and violence – alarmed the Church.\n\nThe practice of playing chess for money became so widespread during the 13th century that Louis IX of France issued an ordinance against gambling in 1254. This ordinance turned out to be unenforceable and was largely neglected by the common public, and even the courtly society, which continued to enjoy the now-prohibited chess tournaments uninterrupted.\n\nThe pieces, which had been nonrepresentational in Islamic countries (see piece values in shantranj), changed shape in Christian cultures. Carved images of men and animals reappeared. The shape of the rook, originally a rectangular block with a V-shaped cut in the top, changed; the two top parts separated by the split tended to get long and hang over, and in some old pictures look like horses' heads. The split top of the piece now called the bishop was interpreted as a bishop's mitre or a fool's cap.\n\nBy the mid-12th century, the pieces of the chess set were depicted as kings, queens, bishops, knights and men at arms. Chessmen made of ivory began to appear in North-West Europe, and ornate pieces of traditional knight warriors were used as early as the mid 13th century. The initially nondescript pawn had now found association with the \"pedes\", \"pedinus,\" or the footman, which symbolized both infantry and loyal domestic service.\n\nThe following table provides a glimpse of the changes in names and character of chess pieces as they crossed from India through Persia to Europe:\n\nThe game, as played during the early Middle Ages, was slow, with many games lasting days. Some variations in rules began to change the shape of the game by the year 1300. A notable, but initially unpopular, change was the ability of the pawn to move two places in the first move instead of one.\n\nIn Europe some of the pieces gradually received new names:\n\nAttempts to make the start of the game run faster to get the opposing pieces in contact sooner included:\n\nOther sporadic variations in the rules of chess included:\n\nThe queen and bishop remained relatively weak until between 1475 AD and 1500 AD, in either Spain, Portugal, France or Italy, the queen's and bishop's modern moves started and spread, making chess close to its modern form. This form of chess got such names as \"Queen's Chess\" or \"Mad Queen Chess\" (Italian \"alla rabiosa\" = \"with the madwoman\"). This led to much more value being attached to the previously minor tactic of pawn promotion. Checkmate became easier and games could now be won in fewer moves. These new rules quickly spread throughout Western Europe and in Spain, with the exception of the rules about stalemate, which were finalized in the early 19th century. The modern move of the queen may have started as an extension of its older ability to once move two squares with jump, diagonally or straight. Marilyn Yalom says that the new move of the queen started in Spain: see history of the queen.\n\nIn some areas (e.g. Russia), the queen could also move like a knight.\n\nA poem \"Caïssa\" published in 1527 led to the chess rook being often renamed as \"castle\", and the modern shape of the rook chess piece; see Vida's poem for more information.\n\nAn Italian player, Gioacchino Greco, regarded as one of the first true professionals of the game, authored an analysis of a number of composed games that illustrated two differing approaches to chess. This influential work went to some extent in popularizing chess and demonstrated the many theories regarding game play and tactics.\n\nThe first full work dealing with the various winning combinations was written by François-André Danican Philidor of France, regarded as the best chess player in the world for nearly 50 years, and published in the 18th century. He wrote and published \"L'Analyse des échecs\" (The Analysis of Chess), an influential work which appeared in more than 100 editions.\nWritings on the theory of how to play chess began to appear in the 15th century. The oldest surviving printed chess book, \"Repetición de Amores y Arte de Ajedrez\" (\"Repetition of Love and the Art of Playing Chess\") by Spanish churchman Luis Ramirez de Lucena was published in Salamanca in 1497. Lucena and later masters like Portuguese Pedro Damiano, Italians Giovanni Leonardo Di Bona, Giulio Cesare Polerio and Gioachino Greco or Spanish bishop Ruy López de Segura developed elements of openings and started to analyze simple endgames.\nIn the 18th century the center of European chess life moved from the Southern European countries to France. The two most important French masters were François-André Danican Philidor, a musician by profession, who discovered the importance of pawns for chess strategy, and later Louis-Charles Mahé de La Bourdonnais who won a famous series of matches with the Irish master Alexander McDonnell in 1834. Centers of chess life in this period were coffee houses in big European cities like \"Café de la Régence\" in Paris and \"Simpson's Divan\" in London.\n\nAs the 19th century progressed, chess organization developed quickly. Many chess clubs, chess books and chess journals appeared. There were correspondence matches between cities; for example the London Chess Club played against the Edinburgh Chess Club in 1824. Chess problems became a regular part of 19th-century newspapers; Bernhard Horwitz, Josef Kling and Samuel Loyd composed some of the most influential problems. In 1843, von der Lasa published his and Bilguer's \"Handbuch des Schachspiels\" (\"Handbook of Chess\"), the first comprehensive manual of chess theory.\n\nCompetitive chess became visible in 1834 with the La Bourdonnais-McDonnell matches, and the 1851 London Chess tournament raised concerns about the time taken by the players to deliberate their moves. On recording time it was found that players often took hours to analyze moves, and one player took as much as two hours and 20 minutes to think over a single move at the London tournament. The following years saw the development of speed chess, five-minute chess and the most popular variant, a version allowing a bank of time to each player in which to play a previously agreed number of moves, e.g. two hours for 30 moves. In the final variant, the player who made the predetermined number of moves in the agreed time received additional time budget for his next moves. Penalties for exceeding a time limit came in form of fines and forfeiture. Since fines were easy to bear for professional players, forfeiture became the only effective penalty; this added \"lost on time\" to the traditional means of losing such as checkmate and resigning.\nIn 1861 the first time limits, using sandglasses, were employed in a tournament match at Bristol, England. The sandglasses were later replaced by pendulums. Modern clocks, consisting of two parallel timers with a small button for a player to press after completing a move, were later employed to aid the players. A tiny latch called a flag further helped settle arguments over players exceeding time limit at the turn of the 19th century.\n\nA Russian composer, Vladimir Korolkov, authored a work entitled \"Excelsior\" in 1958 in which the White side wins only by making six consecutive captures by a pawn. Position analysis became particularly popular in the 19th century. Many leading players were also accomplished analysts, including Max Euwe, Mikhail Botvinnik, Vasily Smyslov and Jan Timman. Digital clocks appeared in the 1980s.\n\nAnother problem that arose in competitive chess was when adjourning a game for a meal break or overnight. The player who moved last before adjournment would be at a disadvantage, as the other player would have a long period to analyze before having to make a reply when the game was resumed. Preventing access to a chess set to work out moves during the adjournment would not stop him from analyzing the position in his head. Various strange ideas were attempted, but the eventual solution was the \"sealed move\". The final move before adjournment is not made on the board but instead is written on a piece of paper which the referee seals in an envelope and keeps safe. When the game is continued after adjournment, the referee makes the sealed move and the players resume.\n\nThe first modern chess tournament was held in London in 1851 and won, surprisingly, by German Adolf Anderssen, who was relatively unknown at the time. Anderssen was hailed as the leading chess master, and his brilliant, energetic attacking style became typical for the time, although it was retrospectively regarded as strategically shallow. Sparkling games like Anderssen's \"Immortal game\" and \"Evergreen Game\" or Morphy's \"Opera game\" were regarded as the highest possible summit of the chess art.\n\nDeeper insight into the nature of chess came with two younger players. American Paul Morphy, an extraordinary chess prodigy, won against all important competitors, including Anderssen, during his short chess career between 1857 and 1863. Morphy's success stemmed from a combination of brilliant attacks and sound strategy; he intuitively knew how to prepare attacks. Prague-born Wilhelm Steinitz later described how to avoid weaknesses in one's own position and how to create and exploit such weaknesses in the opponent's position. In addition to his theoretical achievements, Steinitz founded an important tradition: his triumph over the leading Polish-German master Johannes Zukertort in 1886 is regarded as the first official World Chess Championship. Steinitz lost his crown in 1894 to a much younger German mathematician Emanuel Lasker, who maintained this title for 27 years, the longest tenure of all World Champions.\nIt took a prodigy from Cuba, José Raúl Capablanca (World champion 1921–27), who loved simple positions and endgames, to end the German-speaking dominance in chess; he was undefeated in tournament play for eight years until 1924. His successor was Russian-French Alexander Alekhine, a strong attacking player, who died as the World champion in 1946, having briefly lost the title to Dutch player Max Euwe in 1935, regaining it two years later.\n\nBetween the world wars, chess was revolutionized by the new theoretical school of so-called hypermodernists like Aron Nimzowitsch and Richard Réti. They advocated controlling the center of the board with distant pieces rather than with pawns, inviting opponents to occupy the center with pawns which become objects of attack.\n\nSince the end of 19th century, the number of annually held master tournaments and matches quickly grew. Some sources state that in 1914 the title of chess grandmaster was first formally conferred by Tsar Nicholas II of Russia to Lasker, Capablanca, Alekhine, Tarrasch and Marshall, but this is a disputed claim. The tradition of awarding such titles was continued by the World Chess Federation (FIDE), founded in 1924 in Paris. In 1927, Women's World Chess Championship was established; the first to hold it was Czech-English master Vera Menchik.\n\nAfter the death of Alekhine, a new World Champion was sought in a tournament of elite players ruled by FIDE, who have controlled the title since then, with a sole interruption. The winner of the 1948 tournament, Russian Mikhail Botvinnik, ushered in an era of Soviet dominance in the chess world. Until the end of the Soviet Union, there was only one non-Soviet champion, American Bobby Fischer (champion 1972–75).\n\nIn the previous informal system, the World Champion decided which challenger he would play for the title and the challenger was forced to seek sponsors for the match. FIDE set up a new system of qualifying tournaments and matches. The world's strongest players were seeded into \"Interzonal tournaments\", where they were joined by players who had qualified from \"Zonal tournaments\". The leading finishers in these Interzonals would go on the \"Candidates\" stage, which was initially a tournament, later a series of knock-out matches. The winner of the Candidates would then play the reigning champion for the title. A champion defeated in a match had a right to play a rematch a year later. This system worked on a three-year cycle.\n\nBotvinnik participated in championship matches over a period of fifteen years. He won the world championship tournament in 1948 and retained the title in tied matches in 1951 and 1954. In 1957, he lost to Vasily Smyslov, but regained the title in a rematch in 1958. In 1960, he lost the title to the Latvian prodigy Mikhail Tal, an accomplished tactician and attacking player. Botvinnik again regained the title in a rematch in 1961.\n\nFollowing the 1961 event, FIDE abolished the automatic right of a deposed champion to a rematch, and the next champion, Armenian Tigran Petrosian, a genius of defense and strong positional player, was able to hold the title for two cycles, 1963–69. His successor, Boris Spassky from Russia (1969–72), was a player able to win in both positional and sharp tactical style.\nThe next championship saw the first non-Soviet challenger since World War II, Bobby Fischer, who defeated his Candidates opponents by unheard-of margins and won the world championship match. In 1975, however, Fischer refused to defend his title against Soviet Anatoly Karpov when FIDE refused to meet his demands, and Karpov obtained the title by default. Karpov defended his title twice against Viktor Korchnoi and dominated the 1970s and early 1980s with a string of tournament successes.\n\nKarpov's reign finally ended in 1985 at the hands of another Russian player, Garry Kasparov. Kasparov and Karpov contested five world title matches between 1984 and 1990; Karpov never won his title back.\n\nIn 1993, Garry Kasparov and Nigel Short cut ties with FIDE to organize their own match for the title and formed a competing Professional Chess Association (PCA). From then until 2006, there were two simultaneous World Champions and World Championships: the PCA or Classical champion extending the Steinitzian tradition in which the current champion plays a challenger in a series of many games; the other following FIDE's new format of many players competing in a tournament to determine the champion. Kasparov lost his Classical title in 2000 to Vladimir Kramnik of Russia.\n\nEarlier in 1999, Kasparov as the reigning world champion played a game online against the world team composed of more than 50,000 participants from more than 75 countries. The moves of the world team were decided by plurality vote, and after 62 moves played over four months Kasparov won the game.\n\nThe FIDE World Chess Championship 2006 reunified the titles, when Kramnik beat the FIDE World Champion Veselin Topalov and became the undisputed World Chess Champion. In September 2007, Viswanathan Anand from India became the next champion by winning a championship tournament. In October 2008, Anand retained his title, decisively winning the rematch against Kramnik. Anand retained his title until 2013, when he lost it to Magnus Carlsen from Norway, the current World Chess Champion.\n\nThere have been no recent changes to the moves of the pieces, but the wording of some rules were changed. Publicity (e.g. by chess problem setters) showed that the old wording of two rules allowed unintended types of moves:\nThe wording of both rules was changed to forbid the unintended allowed moves.\n\nIn recent times, more ways to lose have been brought in:\n\n\nEncyclopædia Britannica\n\nWWW\n\nBooks\n\nJournals\n\n"}
{"id": "1952628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952628", "title": "Live at the Hardback", "text": "Live at the Hardback\n\nLive at the Hardback is a live recording of what was thought to be Hot Water Music's final show performed in 1999 and one of the last shows performed at The Hardback Cafe, in Florida. HWM announced at the show that they had decided not to break up. The album was released in 1999 by No Idea Records. 'Live At The Hardback' contains songs from the 'Moonpies For Misfits' EP, which was recorded shortly after the release of 'Live At The Hardback'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952635", "title": "Ion trap", "text": "Ion trap\n\nPenning traps can be used for precise magnetic measurements in spectroscopy. Studies of quantum state manipulation most often use the Paul trap. This may lead to a trapped ion quantum computer and has already been used to create the world's most accurate atomic clocks. Electron guns (a device emitting high-speed electrons, used in CRTs) can use an ion trap to prevent degradation of the cathode by positive ions.\n\nAn ion trap mass spectrometer may incorporate a Penning trap (Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance), Paul trap or the Kingdon trap. The Orbitrap, introduced in 2005, is based on the Kingdon trap. Other types of mass spectrometers may also use a linear quadrupole ion trap as a selective mass filter.\n\nA Penning trap stores charged particles using a strong homogeneous axial magnetic field to confine particles radially and a quadrupole electric field to confine the particles axially. Penning traps are well suited for measurements of the properties of ions and stable charged subatomic particles. Precision studies of the electron magnetic moment by Dehmelt and others are an important topic in modern physics.\n\nPenning traps can be used in quantum computation and quantum information processing and are used at CERN to store antimatter. Penning traps form the basis of Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry for determining the mass-to-charge ratio of ions.\n\nThe Penning Trap was invented by Frans Michel Penning and Hans Georg Dehmelt, who built the first trap in the 1950s.\n\nA Paul trap is a type of quadrupole ion trap that uses static direct current (DC) and radio frequency (RF) oscillating electric fields to trap ions. Paul traps are commonly used as components of a mass spectrometer. The invention of the 3D quadrupole ion trap itself is attributed to Wolfgang Paul who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1989 for this work. The trap consists of two hyperbolic metal electrodes with their foci facing each other and a hyperbolic ring electrode halfway between the other two electrodes. Ions are trapped in the space between these three electrodes by the oscillating and static electric fields.\n\nA Kingdon trap consists of a thin central wire, an outer cylindrical electrode and isolated end cap electrodes at both ends. A static applied voltage results in a radial logarithmic potential between the electrodes. In a Kingdon trap there is no potential minimum to store the ions; however, they are stored with a finite angular momentum about the central wire and the applied electric field in the device allows for the stability of the ion trajectories. In 1981, Knight introduced a modified outer electrode that included an axial quadrupole term that confines the ions on the trap axis. The dynamic Kingdon trap has an additional AC voltage that uses strong defocusing to permanently store charged particles. The dynamic Kingdon trap does not require the trapped ions to have angular momentum with respect to the filament. An Orbitrap is a modified Kingdon trap that is used for mass spectrometry. Though the idea has been suggested and computer simulations performed neither the Kingdon nor the Knight configurations were reported to produce mass spectra, as the simulations indicated mass resolving power would be problematic.\n\nIon traps were used in television receivers prior to the introduction of aluminized CRT faces around 1958, to protect the phosphor screen from ions. The ion trap must be delicately adjusted for maximum brightness.\n\nSome experimental work towards developing quantum computers use trapped ions. Units of quantum information called qubits are stored in stable electronic states of each ion, and quantum information can be processed and transferred through the collective quantized motion of the ions, interacting by the Coulomb force. Lasers are applied to induce coupling between the qubit states (for single qubit operations) or between the internal qubit states and external motional states (for entanglement between qubits).\n\n"}
{"id": "1952639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952639", "title": "4am Friday", "text": "4am Friday\n\n4am Friday is the third studio album by Avail. It is named after the day and time the band received news of Bob Baynor's death (of the band Maximillian Colby). The song F.C.A. was also written about Bob. It was released in 1996 on Lookout! Records and reissued in 2006 by Jade Tree Records. The reissue also includes the \"Live at the Bottom of the Hill in San Francisco\" album.\n\nThe track \"Simple Song\" is featured on the soundtrack for the video game \"Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4\".\n"}
{"id": "1952643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952643", "title": "Robert Carrier (politician)", "text": "Robert Carrier (politician)\n\nRobert Carrier (born June 3, 1941) is a Canadian politician, engineer, political adviser, and a project coordinator. Carrier was a Bloc Québécois member of the House of Commons of Canada from 2004 until 2011.\n\nBorn in Montreal, Quebec, Carrier was first elected in the 2004 federal election in the riding of Alfred-Pellan in Laval, Quebec. However, he was defeated in the 2011 election by NDP's Rosane Doré Lefebvre. Carrier stood as a candidate for the Parti Québécois in the Mille-Îles electoral district during the 2012 Quebec election. On election night, he placed second behind the winner, Francine Charbonneau of the Liberals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952649", "title": "168th Street station (New York City Subway)", "text": "168th Street station (New York City Subway)\n\n168th Street (formerly Washington Heights–168th Street) is an underground New York City Subway station complex shared by the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line and IND Eighth Avenue Line. It is located at the intersection of 168th Street and Broadway in Washington Heights, Manhattan and served by the 1 and A trains at all times, and the C train at all times except late nights.\n\nThe IRT portion of the station is very deep and requires the use of elevators to reach the platform after fare control, which is on a full length mezzanine above the higher IND portion. Another set of elevators connecting the IND platforms and tracks to the mezzanine, and an elevator between the mezzanine to the street, make that portion handicapped-accessible. The IRT section is not ADA accessible since there is no direct elevator access to the platforms; passengers must climb short staircases from both platforms to reach the elevator bank.\n\nThe full-time fare control area is at the center of the mezzanine, and has a turnstile bank, token booth, and one staircase and one elevator going up to the southeast corner of West 168th Street and Saint Nicholas Avenue. The part-time side at the north end of the mezzanine has HEET turnstiles and three staircases, two to the southwest corner of Broadway and 169th Street and one to the northwest corner. An exit-only turnstile in the middle of the mezzanine, near the corridor leading to the IRT platforms, leads to a staircase going up to north end of Mitchell Square Park on the south side of West 168th Street between Broadway and Saint Nicholas Avenue.\n\nThe passageway leading to the IRT elevators is just beyond the full-time fare control area. There are two exit stairs past this part-time fare control area, both of which diverge in opposite directions near the southwest corner of Broadway and 168th Street.\n\nThe southernmost portion of the mezzanine, which is outside fare control, is closed. It features one passage on the east side of the IND station with two exits to the southeastern corner of 167th Street and St. Nicholas Avenue and a passage on the west side of the IND station with two exits to Mitchel Square Park. The closed mezzanine area is now used for New York City Transit employees only. The western area was closed in the 1980s for safety reasons, while the eastern area was closed in 1992.\n\n168th Street on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line has two tracks and two side platforms.\n\nThe West Side Branch of the first subway was extended northward to a temporary terminus of 221st Street and Broadway on March 12, 1906 with the station at 168th Street not yet open. This extension was served by shuttle trains operating between 157th Street and 221st Street until May 30, 1906 when express trains began running through to 221st Street. The 168th Street station opened for service on April 14, 1906.\n\nIn 1948, platforms on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line from 103rd Street to 238th Street were lengthened to to allow full ten-car express trains to stop at this station. Previously, the station could only hold six-car local trains. The platform extensions were opened in stages. On April 6, 1948, the platform extension opened for stations from 103rd Street to Dyckman Street, with the exception of 125th Street.\n\nOn December 28, 1950, the New York City Board of Transportation issued a report concerning the construction of bomb shelters in the subway system. Five deep stations in Washington Heights, including the 168th Street station, were considered to be ideal for being used as bomb-proof shelters. The program was expected to cost $104 million. These shelters were expected to provide limited protection against conventional bombs, while providing protection against shock waves and air blast, as well as from the heat and radiation from an atomic bomb. To become suitable as shelters, the stations would require water-supply facilities, first-aid rooms, and additional bathrooms.\n\nBetween July 5 and September 8, 1997, trains did not stop at the station while the elevators were modernized.\n\nIn 2005, the station was added to the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nFrom January 5 to December 20, 2019, the station was closed so the elevator cars could be replaced, and elevator shafts, mechanical components, and the stairways could be upgraded. During this time, a free out-of-system transfer was provided to the at Inwood–207th Street, from both 207th Street and 215th Street.\n\nThis deep station has a high arched tiled ceiling and white globe lights on ornate fixtures hanging from the walls and ceiling on the north half. The south half, where the platforms were extended in the 1950s, has a much lower ceiling and large marble columns with alternating ones having the standard black station name plates in white lettering, but the name tablets and trim line are the same as those on the north half of the station. There is a closed stairway on the extreme northern end of the northbound platform leading to an unknown location.\n\nNear the north end of the station, there are two pedestrian overpasses above the tracks, each of which has two staircases going down to each platform. On the western side of the bridges, several steps above the southbound platform, there is a lower concourse area with four elevators, one of which is staffed. They lead to an unstaffed fare control area on an upper mezzanine level, where a turnstile bank leads to two staircases going up to the southwest corner of Broadway and West 168th Street. A corridor within fare control leads to the IND mezzanine.\n\nThe northern open bridge and northbound platform features a passageway east of the northbound side to an eastern elevator shaft. This shaft contained the original elevators to and from the platforms, but was partially destroyed when the IND platforms were built; the space has since been repurposed to a ventilation chamber.\n\nIn 2004, the number of elevator attendants at the station was reduced to one per station as a result of budget cuts by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA). The agency had intended to remove all the attendants, but kept one in each station after many riders protested. The change saved $1.2 million a year. In November 2007, the MTA proposed savings cuts to help reduce the agency's deficit. As part of the plan, all elevator operators at 168th Street, along with those in four other stations in Washington Heights, would have been cut. On December 7, 2007, the MTA announced that it would not remove the remaining elevator operators at 168th Street, along with those in four other stations in Washington Heights. The move was intended to save $1.7 million a year, but was not implemented due to pushback from elected officials and residents from the area. In October 2018, the MTA again proposed removing the elevator operators at the five stations, but this decision was reversed after dissent from the Transport Workers' Union. \n\nThe elevator attendants served as a way to reassure passengers as the elevators are the only entrance to the platforms, and passengers often waited for the elevators with an attendant. The attendants at the five stations are primarily maintenance and cleaning workers who suffered injuries that made it hard for them to continue doing their original jobs.\n\nThe 168th Street station on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line is not accessible, despite having two sets of elevators: the elevator from the street to the IND mezzanine and the elevator bank from the IND mezzanine to the IRT mezzanine. As part of the 2017 Fast Forward plan to modernize the subway system, 50 more stations will become ADA-accessible during the MTA's 2020–2024 Capital Program, allowing all riders to have an accessible station within two stops in either direction. To meet this goal, one station in the Washington Heights/Inwood area will have to be made accessible on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line. The 168th Street station was ultimately selected to be retrofitted as part of the plan.\n\nFollowing the 2019 renovation, a rear passageway at the lower mezzanine level was reopened to allow passengers to board and alight on different sides of the elevator cabs. A rear passageway at the upper mezzanine also exists, but remains closed.\n\nThe station was served by Seventh Avenue express trains from 1906 to 1959, after which the station has been served by local 1 trains. From 1989-2005, the 9 service, a skip-stop variant of the 1, went to the station.\n\n168th Street is an express station on the IND Eighth Avenue Line that has four tracks and two island platforms. The station opened on September 10, 1932, as part of the city-operated Independent Subway System (IND)'s initial segment, the Eighth Avenue Line between Chambers Street and 207th Street.\n\nUnlike other express stations in the subway system, the inner tracks serve the C local trains while the outer tracks serve the A express trains. This is to make it easier for C trains to terminate here, and turn around to make the southbound trip to Brooklyn. South of this station, the outer tracks descend to a lower level below the inner tracks, creating a two-over-two track layout. North of the station, the inner tracks continue north under Broadway to 174th Street Yard while the outer tracks turn sharply under Fort Washington Avenue before continuing to Inwood–207th Street.\n\nBoth outer track walls have a reddish purple with a black border, but no name tablets, and small \"168\" signs below them in white numbering on a black border. This station has a full length mezzanine above the platforms and tracks.\n\nThe station is planned to be renovated starting in 2016 as part of the 2010–2014 MTA Capital Program. An MTA study conducted in 2015 found that 48% of components were out of date.\n\nWhen the line opened, this station was served by an AA local train from 168th Street to Chambers Street/World Trade Center. It was discontinued in 1933 when the CC was created to run local along the IND Eighth Avenue and Concourse lines. It was resurrected in 1940 when the BB (later B) was created. The AA, which only ran outside rush hours after 1940, was renamed K in 1985 and completely replaced by the C midday service on December 11, 1988.\n\nThe original BB train, beginning with the opening of the Sixth Avenue Line on December 15, 1940, ran as a rush-hour only local service starting at 168th Street–Washington Heights. The designation \"B\" was originally intended to designate express trains originating in Washington Heights and going to Midtown Manhattan on the IND Sixth Avenue Line. On March 1, 1998, the B and the C switched northern terminals, ending B service to this station and bringing C trains to this station at all times except late nights.\n\nThe A has always served this station since its inception in 1932.\n\nNearby points of interest include NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, Fort Washington Park on the Hudson River waterfront, and remnants of the Audubon Ballroom.\n"}
{"id": "1952654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952654", "title": "First Horizon Bank", "text": "First Horizon Bank\n\nFirst Horizon Bank, formerly First Tennessee Bank, is a financial services company based in Memphis, Tennessee. First Horizon provides financial services through more than 180 locations in and around Tennessee. The company was founded during the Civil War in 1864.\n\nFrank Davis, a businessman from Ohio, came to Memphis to open the first federally chartered bank in Memphis. Though the city was under martial law after being captured by Union forces in the Civil War, First National Bank of Memphis was officially chartered for business on March 25, 1864.\n\nWhen the 1878 yellow fever epidemic swept over Memphis, killing thousands and forcing most of the remaining citizens to flee, First National Bank's doors remained open to help distribute relief funds.\n\nFirst National went over $1 million in deposits with the 1897 acquisition of German Bank. \n\nFirst National was one of five banks in the twelve districts to help implement the Federal Reserve Act of 1913.\n\nA 1926 merger with Central-State National Bank resulted in First National keeping its name while the other bank took over leadership.\n\nDespite floods, recessions, the Great Depression, and wars, the bank grew from a local bank to a regional financial service company with locations across the state.\n\nIn 1952, First National had seven offices in the Memphis area and the time had come to look at the possibility of a new headquarters. In 1961, a 25-story tower was announced. This was completed three years later, at which time First National also opened six branches. As of 1967, First National was the largest bank in the Mid-South. A holding company, First National Holding Corporation, was created in 1969. Two years later, this became First Tennessee National Corporation, with the intention of acquiring other banks. The company acquired five banks in 1972, and as more banks became part of the company, their names changed to First Tennessee Bank. In 1977, First National also became First Tennessee Bank. \n\nIn 1981 First Express became the first national check-clearing service, and First Tennessee offered brokerage services starting the next year.\n\nIn 1995, with the purchases of Maryland National Mortgage Corporation and SNMC Management Corporation, First Tennessee had $6 billion in mortgage origination and was one of the country's top 10 mortgage originators.\n\nThe bank has begun expanding beyond the state of Tennessee with commercial banking and private client services available in an increasing number of markets in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic United States.\n\nOn June 7, 2013, First Tennessee acquired northeast Tennessee-based Mountain National Bank, which had been closed by the FDIC because of bank failure.\n\nOn October 25, 2019, First Tennessee Bank, FTB Advisors, FTN Financial, and Capital Bank were unified and rebranded as First Horizon.\n\nIn November 2019, First Horizon Bank and Lafayette, Louisiana-based IberiaBank agreed to a merger, which is expected to occur in 2020. The combined bank will be based in Memphis, and use the First Horizon name.\n\nFirst Horizon banking services are available to individual consumers as well as businesses of all sizes.\n\nOn October 11, 2016, First Tennessee announced the opening of its first Piedmont Triad retail branch in Winston-Salem. The bank had offered commercial banking and real estate and wealth-management services in the city since 2004. From 2003 to 2016, Winston-Salem was also the headquarters of the Mid-Atlantic Region, including the Triangle, Charlotte and Greenville in North Carolina; Richmond in Virginia; Charleston in South Carolina; and Jacksonville in Florida. The new regional headquarters was in Raleigh, where First Tennessee had four branches after buying TrustAtlantic Bank in 2015.\n\nFirst Horizon offers its customers a wide range of wealth management services through its affiliate, First Horizon Advisors, Inc. The company has been supporting the sophisticated financial needs of affluent customers for much of its history. The company’s services include guidance focused on investments, retirement, insurance, trusts, financial planning, and estate planning.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952661", "title": "Fala (dog)", "text": "Fala (dog)\n\nFala (April 7, 1940 – April 5, 1952), a Scottish Terrier, was the dog of U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt. One of the most famous presidential pets, Fala was taken many places by Roosevelt. Given to the Roosevelts by a cousin, Fala knew how to perform tricks; the dog and his White House antics were mentioned frequently by the media and often referenced by Roosevelt and his wife Eleanor. Fala survived Roosevelt by seven years and was buried near him.\n\nA statue of Fala beside Roosevelt is featured in Washington, D.C.'s Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial, the only presidential pet so honored. Another statue of Fala has been placed at Puerto Rico's \"Paseo de los Presidentes\" in San Juan.\n\nFala was born on April 7, 1940. Roosevelt's distant cousin, Margaret \"Daisy\" Suckley, gave the dog to Roosevelt as an early Christmas gift. As a puppy, Fala was given obedience training by Suckley, who taught him to sit, roll over, and jump. His original name was Big Boy; Roosevelt renamed him Murray the Outlaw of Falahill after John Murray of Falahill, a famous Scottish ancestor. This was later shortened to \"Fala\".\n\nAfter a few weeks at the White House, Fala was taken to the hospital for intestinal problems. Roosevelt discovered that Fala had found his way to the kitchen and was being overfed. Roosevelt issued an order to the staff that Fala would henceforth be fed only by the president himself.\n\nFala was relocated into the White House on November 10, 1940, and spent most of his time there until Roosevelt's death during April 1945. Fala also traveled with Roosevelt to his home (Springwood) in Hyde Park, New York, and to Warm Springs, Georgia, where Roosevelt received treatment for his paralytic illness.\n\nAn MGM movie about a typical day in the White House featured Fala. Fala also became an honorary private of the U.S. Army by \"contributing\" $1 to the war effort for every day of the year and setting an example for others on the \"home front\". During the Battle of the Bulge, American soldiers asked one another the name of the President's dog, expecting the answer \"Fala,\" as a supplementary safeguard against German soldiers attempting to infiltrate American ranks.\n\nFala often accompanied Roosevelt to important events; he traveled in \"Sacred Cow\", the president's airplane, and in \"Ferdinand Magellan\", Roosevelt's custom-made train car, as well as by ship. He was with Roosevelt at the Atlantic Charter Conference, Quebec, and the meeting with President Manuel Ávila Camacho of Mexico in Monterrey.\n\nDuring 1943, Fala was the subject of a short series of political cartoons by Alan Foster titled \"Mr. Fala of the White House\". In the 1943 romantic comedy \"Princess O'Rourke\", Fala was played by Whiskers.\n\nOn September 23, 1944, Roosevelt began his 1944 presidential campaign in Washington, D.C., speaking at a dinner with the International Teamsters Union. The half-hour speech was also broadcast by all U.S. radio networks. In the speech, Roosevelt criticized Republican opponents in Congress and detailed their criticisms of him. Late in the speech, Roosevelt addressed Republican charges that he had accidentally left Fala behind on the Aleutian Islands while on tour there and had sent a U.S. Navy destroyer to retrieve him at an exorbitant cost to the taxpayers:\n\nThese Republican leaders have not been content with attacks on me, or my wife, or on my sons. No, not content with that, they now include my little dog, Fala. Well, of course, I don't resent attacks, and my family don't resent attacks, but Fala does resent them. You know, Fala is Scotch, and being a Scottie, as soon as he learned that the Republican fiction writers in Congress and out had concocted a story that I'd left him behind on an Aleutian island and had sent a destroyer back to find himat a cost to the taxpayers of two or three, or eight or twenty million dollarshis Scotch soul was furious. He has not been the same dog since. I am accustomed to hearing malicious falsehoods about myself ... But I think I have a right to resent, to object, to libelous statements about my dog.\n\nThe President defended his little dog against the attacks.\n\nAlthough the story of being left behind on the Aleutian Islands was false, Fala did cause some trouble once on the ship Tuscalosa in the West Indies. \n\nThe idea of turning the Republican charges into a joke was that of Orson Welles. Campaigning extensively for Roosevelt, Welles occasionally sent him ideas and phrases that were sometimes incorporated into what Welles characterized as \"less important speeches\". One of these was the \"Fala speech\". Welles ad-libbed the Fala joke for the president, who was so delighted that he had a final version written into the speech by his staff. After the broadcast Roosevelt asked Welles, \"How did I do? Was my timing right?\"\n\n\"The audience went wild, laughing and cheering and calling for more,\" wrote historian Doris Kearns Goodwin. \"And the laughter carried beyond the banquet hall; it reverberated in living rooms and kitchens throughout the country, where people were listening to the speech on their radios. The Fala bit was so funny, one reporter observed, that 'even the stoniest of Republican faces cracked a smile.'\"\n\nPresident Roosevelt died at Warm Springs, Georgia, on April 12, 1945. In the minutes after his death, Fala behaved very strangely. FDR biographer Jim Bishop wrote about the death scene: \"... a snapping, snarling series of barks was heard. No one had paid any attention to Fala. He had been dozing in a corner of the room. For a reason beyond understanding, he ran directly for the front screen door and bashed his black head against it. The screen broke and he crawled through and ran snapping and barking up into the hills. There, Secret Service men could see him, standing alone, unmoving, on an eminence. This led to the quiet question: 'Do dogs really know?'\"\n\nFala attended Roosevelt's funeral and went to live with the widowed Eleanor Roosevelt at Val-Kill. She took great pleasure in Fala's company, and the two became inseparable companions. She often mentioned Fala in her newspaper column, \"My Day\", and wrote of him in her autobiography:\n\nIt was Fala, my husband's little dog, who never really readjusted. Once, in 1945, when General Eisenhower came to lay a wreath on Franklin's grave, the gates of the regular driveway were opened and his automobile approached the house accompanied by the wailing of the sirens of a police escort. When Fala heard the sirens, his legs straightened out, his ears pricked up and I knew that he expected to see his master coming down the drive as he had come so many times. Later, when we were living in the cottage, Fala always lay near the dining-room door where he could watch both entrances just as he did when his master was there. Franklin would often decide suddenly to go somewhere and Fala had to watch both entrances in order to be ready to spring up and join the party on short notice. Fala accepted me after my husband's death, but I was just someone to put up with until the master should return.\n\nDuring November 1945 Fala was hospitalized for a week after being attacked at the family's Hyde Park estate by Elliott Roosevelt's bull mastiff, Blaze. Fala had been staying with Margaret Suckley and visited Hyde Park. He was on a leash when the larger dog jumped on him, slashing his back and right eye. The attack ended when someone struck Blaze with a rock and dazed him. Blaze tested negative for rabies, but was still euthanized as a precaution against future attacks.\n\nSuffering from deafness and failing health, Fala was euthanized on April 5, 1952, two days before his twelfth birthday. Fala is buried in a marked grave about behind the Roosevelt tombstone in the Rose Garden at Springwood, beside Chief (1918–1933), the Roosevelts' German Shepherd.\n\nA statue of Fala beside Roosevelt is featured in the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial in Washington, D.C. Fala is the only presidential pet so honored. Another statue of him has been placed at Puerto Rico's \"Paseo de los Presidentes\" in San Juan. A third statue is in the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, NY. Fala's collar, dog dish, White House dog tags and other artifacts also are on display.\nSo, during and after his time in the White House, he was one of, if not, the most famous of the dogs who lived there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952666", "title": "Pinnacle Studio", "text": "Pinnacle Studio\n\nPinnacle Studio is a video editing program originally developed by Pinnacle Systems as a consumer level software. Upon Pinnacle System's acquisition of Munich-based FAST Multimedia, Pinnacle integrated the professional code base of FAST's editing software, (since re-branded as Pinnacle Liquid) beginning with Pinnacle Studio version 10. It was acquired by Avid and later by Corel in July 2012. Pinnacle Studio allows users to author video content in Video CD, DVD-Video, AVCHD or Blu-ray format, add complementary menus and burn them to disc.\n\nPinnacle Systems offers an affiliate sales program for the Pinnacle Studio Product line.\n\nIn the second half of 2007, Pinnacle introduced VideoSpin, a shareware version of Studio with fewer features; it was discontinued in March 2009.\n\nSince version 9, Studio has been sold in several editions: \"Studio,\" \"Studio Plus\" and \"Studio Ultimate\", all of which are commercial software. There is some additional functionality in the \"Plus\" and Ultimate editions, notably a second video track. This allowed Overlay, A-B Edits, Chroma Key, and Picture-in-Picture.\n\nStudio 10 and Studio 10 Plus were released on the 17 August 2005. While retaining the same user interface as Studio 9, the code base was taken from Liquid Edition, now called Avid Liquid. Real time preview at full resolution was introduced along with the ability to mix PAL, NTSC, 4:3 and 16:9 footage on the timeline. The standard version of Studio 10 has fewer features than the standard version of Studio 9, but Studio 10 Plus offers further enhancements including HD editing. Version 10.7 Plus allows users (after purchasing a premium feature) to burn High Definition video to standard DVD media that will then replay on the Toshiba HD-DVD players. Vista compatibility was added in version 10.8.\n\nStudio 11 was released in June 2007. It features three versions: kaalai, Studio Plus, and Studio Ultimate. All three are designed to be compatible with Windows Vista and feature a new scalable interface and replace Smartsound's music generation with Scorefitter, a midi-based version written in-house.\n\nStudio 11 Plus added native HDV and AVCHD editing, and HD DVD from standard discs. Keyframing became possible on most effects. Blu-ray AVCHD to standard DVDs was added in S11.1.1.\n\nPinnacle Studio Ultimate became the new top-of-the-line consumer video editing application. It included Soundsoap PE, an advanced sound-cleaning tool, Dolby 5.1 Surround encoding, proDAD Vitascene, and Moving Picture, a precision pan and zoom. A green-screen sheet to produce the chroma key effects with is also included in the full Ultimate version, or can be purchased separately.\n\nStudio 12 was released in June 2008. Enhancements to the editing features included markers that can be placed on the timeline \"on the fly\", improved audio controls and the addition of Montage, which allows multi-layered video and still composites to be generated within pre-defined templates. MOD import and FLV output was added, as was direct upload to YouTube.\n\nThe Plus and Ultimate versions also added full Blu-ray disc burning with menus. Ultimate comes with proDAD Vitascene as in S11, but replaces Soundsoap and Moving Picture with Boris Graffiti 5.1 and Magic Bullet Looks SE. A new addition was the Content Transfer Window which should allow you to import any plug-ins or premium content purchased for Studio 10 or 11.\n\nStudio 14 was released in September 2009.\n\nWith this series, the low-end version is now billed as \"Studio HD\", and is essentially identical to the regular low-end version of Studio, but with the overlay video track and high-definition capabilities available (previously, the only way to be able to use these was to upgrade the software to the Plus or Ultimate version).\n\nThe \"Plus\" version is now known as the \"Studio HD Ultimate version\", and includes a few special third-party plugins.\n\nThe top-of-the-line version is now known as \"Studio HD Ultimate Collection\", which includes more third-party plugins and a green-screen sheet (which can be also purchased separately). The video capture interface has been redesigned, but the editing and export GUIs are identical to previous versions, in addition to including stop-motion capture, image stabilization effects and a motion title editor/creator.\n\nStudio 15 was released in February 2011.\n\nNew features include, Archive/Restore, DivX Plus HD (.MKV) Support, Better AVCHD support (v14 did not handle large AVCHD videos with stability), Intel Media SDK integration, plus new added content such as more effects, more transitions from Hollywood FX and a greater variety of menus.\n\nAnother added feature is Studio 15's reintegration of SmartSound quick tracks, a feature disabled in v14 but available on versions 10 through 12.\n\nStudio 16 was released in August 2012. Based on Avid Studio, (AKA NGStudio) it is very different to the \"classic\" line that ended with version 15. New features include Unique 3D Support & Optimization and 50GB of free in-app cloud storage and file-sharing via Box.\n\nStudio 17 was released in October 2013. New features/enhancements include significant performance boost with dramatically faster AVC video rendering, enhanced\nCUDA support and a streamlined interface. New Live Screen Capture, support for AVCHD 2.0 and valuable new extras\nfrom Red Giant and iZotope.\n\nStudio 18 was released in October 2014. New features include native 64-bit architecture builds, 4K video support, XAVC S file support, enhanced screen capture support, and 17 royalty free audio tracks.\n\nStudio 19 was released in September 2015.\n\nSome of the features include the storyboard, the ability to capture digital and analogue video, the video and audio toolboxes, the SmartSound/Scorefitter music generator, SmartMovie capabilities and DVD burning. Multi-camera editing was a major new feature introduced in this version. Projects created in VideoSpin may be opened and edited in Pinnacle Studio 11, but once a project has been loaded in Studio, it may not again be reloaded in VideoSpin. An advanced codec pack could be purchased, allowing users to use MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 codecs, all of which are available freely for the first 15 days after installation.\n\nStudio 20 was released in August 2016. New features include 360 Degree Video Editing, Motion Tracking with Mosaic Blur, Easy Track Transparency, support for HEVC (H.265), and stop motion video. No support for HEVC (H.265) on AMD Processors and AMD Radeon Graphics Card. You can't import or export video encoded in H.265/HEVC, that means you will be unable to edit video from modern cameras.\n\nStudio 21 was released in August 2017. New features include Wide-Angle Lens Correction, New User Interface total redesign. No support for HEVC (H.265) on AMD Processors and AMD Radeon Graphics Card. You can't import or export video encoded in H.265/HEVC, that means you will be unable to edit video from modern cameras.\n\nStudio 22 was released in August 2018. Pinnacle Studio 22 Ultimate adds Color grading, Three and four-point editing, MultiCam Capture Lite to combine two video streams or make video tutorials, Split Screen Video, Tiny Planet effects, Motion 3D titles, and enhanced motion tracking. No support for HEVC (H.265) on AMD Processors and AMD Radeon Graphics Card. You can't import or export video encoded in H.265/HEVC, that means you will be unable to edit video from modern cameras.\n\nStudio 23 was released in August 2019. Pinnacle Studio 23 Ultimate Delivers Power, Precision, and Unlimited Creative Opportunities in Video Editing. New Video Masking, timeline efficiencies, and enhanced Color Grading enable Pinnacle Studio Ultimate users to achieve results that are even closer to pro. No support for HEVC (H.265) on AMD Processors and AMD Radeon Graphics Card.\n\nIn addition to the desktop versions of Pinnacle Studio, two versions of Pinnacle Studio also exists for iPad and iPhone - Pinnacle Studio for iOS and Pinnacle Studio Pro for iOS. Last one has additional features, for example, trim frame by frame using the Dual Viewer Precision Trimmer, export to cloud services (such as Dropbox, Google Drive and OneDrive).\nLast version of Pinnacle Studio for iOS (5.6.1) requires iOS 9.3 or later, iPad 2 or higher, iPhone 4s or higher, iPod Touch Series 5 or higher.\n\nMacUser rated version Pinnacle Studio 4 for iOS as 4 out of 5, saying that it provides \"a more fully featured movie editor than iMovie for iPad\", but complained that the extra in-app purchase needed for cloud sync was excessive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952673", "title": "Kristen Miller", "text": "Kristen Miller\n\nKristen Miller (born August 20, 1976) is an American actress. She is best known for her roles as Ashley Elliot on the sitcom \"USA High\" (1997–1999) and Deedra \"D.D.\" Cummings on the action-adventure series \"She Spies\" (2002–2004).\n\nMiller has also had recurring roles and made guest appearances on many television shows, including \"Undressed\" (2000), \"That's My Bush!\" (2001), \"Charmed\" (2004), \"Two and a Half Men\" (2005), \"Joey\" (2005), \"I Hate My 30's\" (2007), \"Las Vegas\" (2008), \"90210\" (2009), \"Dexter\" (2011), \"Mad Men\" (2012), \"Castle\" (2012) and \"The Glades\" (2013). Her films include \"Cherry Falls\" (2000), \"\" (2004), \"The Fallen Ones\" (2005) and \"\" (2005). She also provided the voice-over role for the character Rio in the video game \"Lifeline\" (2004).\n\nMiller grew up in Manhattan Beach, California. She is married to television producer Morgan Langley, whom she wed in June 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952674", "title": "157th Street station", "text": "157th Street station\n\n157th Street is a local station on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line of the New York City Subway. Located at the intersection of Broadway and 157th Street in Washington Heights, Manhattan, it is served by the 1 train at all times.\n\n157th Street was first opened on a temporary basis on October 29, 1904, at which point it was still incomplete. The station was used to allow passengers to get fans to a football game heading to the Yale–Columbia football game at the Polo Grounds. At the time, the original northern terminal of the original IRT was 145th Street, the next station south. \n\n157th Street was formally opened on November 12, 1904. This station was the first to be added to the subway following the opening of the original 28 stations. The station's opening was delayed by two weeks because there was still painting and plastering work going on in the station. 157th Street thus became the terminal for trains not going via the IRT Lenox Avenue Line. The terminal of 157th Street had facilities for switching trains, relieving congestion at 96th Street. On March 12, 1906, the IRT was extended from 157th Street to 221st Street. Shuttle trains served the new extension terminating at 157th Street, meaning that passengers south of 157th Street wanting to go to stations on the extension had to transfer at 157th Street. On May 30, 1906, express trains began running through to 221st Street, eliminating the need to transfer at this station.\n\nIn 1948, platforms on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line from 103rd Street to 238th Street were lengthened to to allow full ten-car express trains to stop at this station. Previously, the station could only hold six-car local trains. The platform extensions were opened in stages. On April 6, 1948, the platform extension opened for stations from 103rd Street to Dyckman Street, with the exception of 125th Street.\n\nThis station has two tracks and two side platforms, which are narrow, even by IRT standards. The platforms contain their original trim line that includes \"157\" mosaics and name tablets reading \"157TH ST.\" There are also directional signs on the tiles containing white lettering on a black background and brown border. Both platforms have tiled columns that run along the entire length and contain \"157\" painted in black. Some of the columns separating the two tracks have \"157\" signs in black letting on white borders.\n\nEach platform has one same-level fare control area near the middle. Both are fully staffed, containing a turnstile bank and token booth, and each has two street stairs. The northbound side's two exits lead to the southeast corner of 157th Street and Broadway, and the southbound side's two exits lead to the northwest corner of the intersection. There are no crossovers or crossunders to allow free transfers between directions. Only the South Ferry-bound side token booth is staffed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952679", "title": "Freenet (disambiguation)", "text": "Freenet (disambiguation)\n\nFreenet is a pioneering anonymous peer-to-peer distributed data store\n\nFreenet may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1952681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952681", "title": "William Henry Gates", "text": "William Henry Gates\n\nWilliam Henry Gates may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1952682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952682", "title": "Belz Enterprises", "text": "Belz Enterprises\n\nBelz Enterprises, Inc. is a major American-based developer of hotels, retail, and commercial properties, including shopping malls.\n\nBelz owns and operates the Peabody Hotel in Memphis. Previously they operated two other Peabody Hotels, one in Little Rock, and another in Orlando, however both of these hotels were sold in 2013 becoming a Hyatt and Mariott respectively. In past years, much of its operations have been centered on the development of new factory outlet-type malls and the conversion of some its older traditional properties into such. In recent years they have developed more traditional shopping centers including strip malls and Peabody Place in downtown Memphis, commercial office, and warehouses space. The firm is based in Memphis. Ronald A. Belz serves as Chief Operating Officer. \nThe company was founded in North Memphis in 1940 by Philip Belz (1904-2000). The firm's earliest projects included small retail and residential spaces and soon expanded to industrial development, starting with a roofing materials factory on the former site of the North Memphis Driving Park (horse racing track).\n\n"}
{"id": "1952684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952684", "title": "Neal Radford", "text": "Neal Radford\n\nNeal Victor Radford (born 7 June 1957) is an English former first-class cricketer, who appeared in three Tests and six ODIs for England.\n\nRadford was born at Luanshya in Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia). He played domestically for Transvaal, Lancashire, Worcestershire, and Herefordshire.\n\nThe cricket writer, Colin Bateman, noted \"Neal Radford took a circuitious route to Test cricket\".\n\nRadford was born in Zambia and educated in South Africa, making his first-class debut for Transvaal B in the 1978/79 President's Cup. However, opportunities in South Africa were limited owing to that country's isolation from world cricket, and so Radford moved to England and signed for Lancashire in 1980 as an overseas player.\n\nRadford was not a particular success at Lancashire, failing to take 50 first-class wickets in any of his five seasons with the club, and he was dismissed at the end of 1984. By this time, however, he had qualified for England by residence, and so was sought after by several other counties. He chose to join Worcestershire, and his decision was repaid handsomely: he took 101 wickets with his right-arm fast-medium bowling in 1985, more than anyone else, and was named one of the Wisden Cricketers of the Year the following year.\n\nHis fine form continued into the 1986 season, and he was rewarded with an international call-up for the third Test against India at Edgbaston. He also played in the following Test of the summer against New Zealand, but his aggregate bowling figures over the two matches of 3–219 were far from impressive, and he was dropped from the England team in favour of debutant Gladstone Small.\n\nConcentrating entirely on domestic cricket in 1987, Radford had another fine year, again taking more than 100 first-class wickets and forcing his way back into contention for an England place, gaining selection for the winter tour of New Zealand. He was picked to play at Auckland, but again failed to make the breakthrough, finishing with match figures of 1–132. He was dropped again from the Test side, this time for good, although he did play four One Day Internationals against New Zealand (and one against Australia) on that tour.\n\nAfter that, Radford's career with England consisted of just one more ODI, against West Indies in 1988. From that time onward he was never close to international selection again, but he played another eight seasons for Worcestershire. He had an excellent year in one-day cricket in 1991: he took 48 wickets, including 7–19 against Bedfordshire in the NatWest Trophy; as of the end of 2006, both statistics remain records for Worcestershire.\nHe was awarded a benefit season in 1995, and when he retired from the first-class game at the end of that year, he had 994 wickets to his name at that level.\n\nIn 1993 Radford established the cricket supplies business Radford EZY Net.\n\nIn 1997 and 1998, Radford played Minor counties cricket for Herefordshire.\n\nIn March 2014, Neal Radford announced his intention to stand for the UK Independence Party in the local elections. He said: \"I was getting increasingly frustrated as a dissatisfied voter and as such and wanted to do something about the situation – so I joined UKIP. I have been approached to stand in Fladbury for the local elections and it is something I intend to do.\" UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: \"He was one of the hardest working and gutsy bowlers in first-class cricket and I know that he will apply that work ethic to his campaigning with us.\"\n\nRadford's two brothers, Glen and Wayne, both played domestic first-class cricket in South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952693", "title": "Ribosome display", "text": "Ribosome display\n\nRibosome display is a technique used to perform \"in vitro\" protein evolution to create proteins that can bind to a desired ligand. The process results in translated proteins that are associated with their mRNA progenitor which is used, as a complex, to bind to an immobilized ligand in a selection step. The mRNA-protein hybrids that bind well are then reverse transcribed to cDNA and their sequence amplified via PCR. The end result is a nucleotide sequence that can be used to create tightly binding proteins.\n\nRibosome display begins with a native library of DNA sequences coding for polypeptides. Each sequence is transcribed, and then translated \"in vitro\" into polypeptide. However, the DNA library coding for a particular library of binding proteins is genetically fused to a spacer sequence lacking a stop codon before its end. The lack of a stop codon prevents release factors from binding and triggering the disassembly of the translational complex. So, this spacer sequence stays attached to the peptidyl tRNA and occupies the ribosomal tunnel, and thus allows the protein of interest to protrude out of the ribosome and fold. What results is a complex of mRNA, ribosome, and protein which can bind to surface-bound ligand. This complex is stabilized with the lowering of temperature and the addition of cations such as Mg.\n\nDuring the subsequent binding, or panning, stages, the complex is introduced to surface-bound ligand. This can be accomplished several ways, for example using an affinity chromatography column with a resin bed containing ligand, a 96-well plate with immobilized surface-bound ligand, or magnetic beads that have been coated with ligand. The complexes that bind well are immobilized. Subsequent elution of the binders via high salt concentrations, chelating agents, or mobile ligands which complex with the binding motif of the protein allow dissociation of the mRNA. The mRNA can then be reverse transcribed back into cDNA, undergo mutagenesis, and iteratively fed into the process with greater selective pressure to isolate even better binders.\"\n\nBy having the protein progenitor attached to the complex, the processes of ribosome display skips the microarray/peptide bead/multiple-well sequence separation that is common in assays involving nucleotide hybridization and provides a ready way to amplify the proteins that do bind without decrypting the sequence until necessary. At the same time, this method relies on generating large, concentrated pools of sequence diversity without gaps and keeping these sequences from degrading, hybridizing, and reacting with each other in ways that would create sequence-space gaps.\n\nIt has a successful track record in the engineering of antibody and protein therapeutic leads and is still widely used in these areas.\n\nCompeting methods for protein evolution \"in vitro\" are phage display, yeast display, bacterial display, and mRNA display. peptides (Mattheakis, Bhatt and Dow) As it is performed entirely in vitro, there are two main advantages over other selection technologies. First, the diversity of the library is not limited by the transformation efficiency of bacterial cells, but only by the number of ribosomes and different mRNA molecules present in the test tube. Second, random mutations can be introduced easily after each selection round, as no library must be transformed after any diversification step. This allows facile directed evolution of binding proteins over several generations.\n\nA prerequisite for the selection of proteins from libraries is the coupling of genotype (RNA, DNA) and phenotype (protein). In ribosome display, this link is accomplished during in vitro translation by stabilizing the complex consisting of the ribosome, the mRNA and the nascent, correctly folded polypeptide. The ribosomal complexes are allowed to bind to surface-immobilized target. Whereas non-bound complexes are washed away, mRNA of the complexes displaying a binding polypeptide can be recovered, and thus, the genetic information of the binding polypeptides is available for analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952695", "title": "Tame Iti", "text": "Tame Iti\n\nTame Wairere Iti (born c. 1952) is a Tūhoe Māori activist in New Zealand. He grew up in the Urewera area, and in the late 1960s and 1970s he was involved in protests against the Vietnam War and apartheid in South Africa, and in many Māori protest actions. His ability to court controversy and his full tā moko make him well-recognised.\n\nWith three others he was tried on charges of \"illegal possession of firearms and participation in an organised criminal group\" in 2012. The jury could not reach a verdict on the charge of belonging to a criminal group, but found all four guilty of firearms charges – and in May 2012, Iti was sentenced to jail for two-and-a-half years for these. He was granted parole in February 2013, and was released on 27 February 2013.\n\nMost associated with Tūhoe, Tame Iti also has links with the Waikato tribes of Ngāti Wairere and Ngāti Hauā, and with Te Arawa. Told he was born on a train near Rotorua, Iti was raised by his great granduncle and aunt, Hukarere and Te Peku Purewa, whom Iti calls his grandparents, in the custom known as \"whāngai\" (adoption within the same family) on a farm near Ruatoki in the Urewera area. The Purewas had also raised his father. He says that at the age of 10 his school headmaster (himself a Māori) forbade pupils to speak Māori at school. On leaving school, he took up an apprenticeship in painting and decorating after completing a year-long Maori Training Scheme at Christchurch Technical Institute in Christchurch.\n\nAs the Māori nationalist movement grew in New Zealand in the late 1960s and 1970s, Iti became involved. He protested against the Vietnam War and apartheid in South Africa, and he became involved with Nga Tamatoa, a major Māori protest group of the 1970s, from its early days. He joined the Communist Party of New Zealand, and went to China in 1973 during the cultural revolution. He has taken part in a number of land occupations and held a \"hikoi\" to the New Zealand Parliament.\n\nIti has worked as a radio DJ and artist. He was a partner in a restaurant on Auckland's Karangahape Road that served traditional Māori food. The alcohol-free restaurant, which incorporated an art gallery, opened in 1999 and closed within a year.\n\nHe stood for Parliament as a candidate of Mana Māori in the 1996, 1999 and 2002 New Zealand general elections, and for the Māori Party in 2014.\n\nTame Iti's ability to court controversy has made him a common feature in New Zealand news media. Iti has a full facial moko, which he described as \"the face of the future\" in New Zealand. During 2004 he wore a mohawk. The public arguably know Iti best for his moko and for performing whakapohane (baring his buttocks) at protests.\n\nOn 16 January 2005 during a powhiri (greeting ceremony) which formed part of a Waitangi Tribunal hearing, Iti fired a shotgun into a New Zealand flag in close proximity to a large number of people, which he explained was an attempt to recreate the 1860s East Cape War: \"We wanted them to feel the heat and smoke, and Tūhoe outrage and disgust at the way we have been treated for 200 years.\" The incident was filmed by television crews but initially ignored by police. The matter was however raised in parliament, one opposition MP asking \"why Tame Iti can brandish a firearm and gloat about how he got away with threatening judges on the Waitangi Tribunal, without immediate arrest and prosecution\".\n\nNew Zealand Police subsequently charged Iti with discharging a firearm in a public place. His trial occurred in June 2006. Iti elected to give evidence in Te Reo, Māori (his first language), stating that he was following the Tūhoe custom of making noise with totara poles. Tūhoe rangatira stated Iti had been disciplined by the tribe and protocol clarified to say discharge of a weapon in anger was always inappropriate, but stated that it was appropriate when honouring dead warriors (in a manner culturally equivalent to the firing of a volley over a grave within Western cultures). Judge Chris McGuire said \"It was designed to intimidate unnecessarily and shock. It was a stunt, it was unlawful.\"\n\nJudge McGuire convicted Iti on both charges and fined him. Iti attempted to sell the flag he shot on the TradeMe auction site to pay the fine and his legal costs, but the sale – a violation of proceeds of crime legislation – was withdrawn. It was later put up for sale again by politics blog Tumeke.\n\nIti lodged an appeal in which his lawyer, Annette Sykes, argued that Crown Law did not stretch to the ceremonial area in front of a marae's wharenui. On 4 April 2007, the Court of Appeal of New Zealand overturned his convictions for unlawfully possessing a firearm. While recognising that events occurred in \"a unique setting\", the court did not agree with Sykes' submission about Crown law. However Justices Hammond, O'Regan and Wilson found that his prosecutors failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Iti's actions caused \"requisite harm\" under Section 51 of the Arms Act. The Court of Appeal described Iti's protest as \"a foolhardy enterprise\" and warned him not to attempt anything similar again.\n\nIti figured among the at least 17 people arrested by police on 15 October 2007 in a series of raids under the Terrorism Suppression Act and the Firearms Act. In September 2011 most of the alleged terrorists originally arrested with Iti had all terrorism and firearms charges dropped. Iti and three others were charged with belonging to a criminal group.\n\nThe trial was held in February and March 2012, and Iti and the other defendants were found guilty of some firearms charges, and not guilty of others. On the most substantial charge of belonging to a criminal group, the jury could not reach a verdict, even when invited by the judge to reach a majority verdict of ten to one. The Crown decided not to proceed with a second trial. Justice Rodney Hansen sentenced Iti and Rangi Kemara to a two-and-a-half-year prison term on 24 May 2012.\n\nIn October 2012 Iti and the three others convicted on firearms charges following the raids lost an appeal against their sentences. Iti's son Wairere Iti said his father was \"not overly surprised\", and they may take the case to the Supreme Court. Iti was granted parole in February 2013.\n\nIti was released from prison on the morning of 27 February 2013. Prison staff described him as a \"role model prisoner\". Iti said he enjoyed his time inside, working as a mechanic and working on his art and writing.\n\nTame Iti performed a lead role in the \"Tempest\" dance theatre production by MAU, a New Zealand contemporary dance company directed by Samoan choreographer Lemi Ponifasio. The \"Tempest\" premiered in Vienna in June 2007. Tempest II was performed at the Queen Elizabeth Hall, Southbank Centre, London in June 2008. Because of Iti's arrest and court case over the 'terror-raids' Ponifasio had to convince the New Zealand High Court to allow the detained Maori activist to travel on the 2008 tour. Affidavits in support of MAU from international arts organisations had also been submitted as evidence to the High Court. Iti was eventually allowed to travel for the tour. \"Tempest:Without a Body\" made its New Zealand premier at the Auckland Festival in March 2009.\n\nIn 2008, Tame Iti featured with his son Toikairakau (Toi) Iti in the New Zealand documentary \"Children of the Revolution\" (2008) which screened on Maori Television in April of the same year. \"Children of the Revolution\" is about the children of political activists in New Zealand and also featured anti-apartheid leader John Minto and his teenage son; Green Party Member of Parliament, Sue Bradford and her journalist daughter Katie Azania Bradford; Māori Party Member of Parliament, Hone Harawira and his wife Hilda Harawira with their daughter Te Whenua Harawira (organiser of the 2004 Seabed and Foreshore Land March) and musician and former political prisoner Tigilau Ness with his son, hip hop artist Che Fu. The documentary was directed by Makerita Urale and produced by Claudette Hauiti and Maori production company Front of the Box Productions. The documentary won \"Best Maori Language Programme\" at the New Zealand Qantas Television Awards (now called Qantas Film & Television Awards) in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952697", "title": "145th Street station (IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line)", "text": "145th Street station (IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line)\n\n145th Street is a local station on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line of the New York City Subway. Located at the intersection of Broadway and 145th Street in Hamilton Heights, Manhattan, it is served by the 1 train at all times.\n\nOperation of the first subway began on October 27, 1904, with the opening of the original 28 stations of the New York City Subway from City Hall to 145th Street on the West Side Branch. This was the northern terminal station of the original IRT subway on opening day, which operated from City Hall.\n\nIn 1948, platforms on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line from 103rd Street to 238th Street were lengthened to to allow full ten-car express trains to stop at this station. Previously, the station could only hold six-car local trains. The platform extensions were opened in stages. On April 6, 1948, the platform extension opened for stations from 103rd Street to Dyckman Street, with the exception of 125th Street.\n\nThis station has three tracks and two side platforms. The northbound local track merges with the center track north of the station and the line continues north as two tracks. The middle track from here south to 103rd Street is unused for revenue service. The platforms are offset, with the northbound one being slightly more to the south than the southbound one.\n\nJust south of the station lies the underground 137th Street Yard, which is visible from passing trains. The track layout allows northbound trains to bypass this station by switching to the center express track in the 137th Street Yard south of the station.\n\nThe platforms contain their original trim line of green with gray borders. \"145\" in white lettering on a dark border are tiled onto the trim. The station's other name tablets show \"145TH ST.\" in a multi-color mosaic. The directional signs read also read \"145TH ST.\" in white lettering on a black border. The station's columns, which run entirely along both platforms, are I-beams with a blue trim and \"145\" in black numbers.\n\nBoth platforms have same-level fare control containing a bank of turnstiles, token booth, and staircases to the street. The northbound platform has two staircases (one to each eastern corner of Broadway and 145th Street) and the southbound platform has a single staircase to the northwestern corner. There are no crossovers or crossunders to allow transfers between directions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952698", "title": "Memphis Flyer", "text": "Memphis Flyer\n\nThe Memphis Flyer is a free weekly alternative newspaper serving the greater Memphis, Tennessee, area. The \"Flyer\" covers Memphis news, politics, music, entertainment, sports, food, and spirits. As of January 2018, the weekly print circulation is 44,000.\n\nThe \"Flyer\" was founded in 1989 by publisher Kenneth Neill. The current editor is Bruce VanWyngarden, father of MGMT lead singer Andrew VanWyngarden. The \"Flyer\" is a publication of Contemporary Media, Inc. which also publishes \"Memphis\" magazine, \"Memphis Parent\", and \"Inside Memphis Business\".\n\nThe \"Memphis Flyer\" is distributed throughout the Mid-South on Wednesday morning. It has an average audited weekly pickup rate of 93 percent.\n\nThe \"Flyer's\" website, Memphisflyer.com, features daily posts of local news, politics, music, food, and entertainment. Content from the \"Flyer\"'s weekly print edition is posted on Thursday morning. \n\n"}
{"id": "1952711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952711", "title": "137th Street–City College station", "text": "137th Street–City College station\n\n137th Street–City College is a local station on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line of the New York City Subway. Located at the intersection of 137th Street and Broadway in Hamilton Heights, Manhattan, it is served by the 1 train at all times. The station serves the nearby City College of New York and Riverbank State Park.\n\nOperation of the first subway began on October 27, 1904, with the opening of the original 28 stations of the New York City Subway from City Hall to 145th Street on the West Side Branch including the 137th Street station.\n\nIn 1948, platforms on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line from 103rd Street to 238th Street were lengthened to to allow full ten-car express trains to stop at this station. Previously, the station could only hold six-car local trains. The platform extensions were opened in stages. On April 6, 1948, the platform extension opened for stations from 103rd Street to Dyckman Street, with the exception of 125th Street.\n\nIn 1981, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority listed the station among the 69 most deteriorated stations in the subway system. As a result, one of future U.S. president Barack Obama's first community organizing efforts after graduating from Columbia University was in conjunction with drawing attention to the poor condition of the station. In 1984 or 1985, Obama, who was working for the New York Public Interest Research Group, was among the leaders of May Day efforts to bring attention to the subway system, particularly the station serving CCNY. Obama traveled to stations to get people to sign letters addressed to local officials and the MTA. Obama was photographed holding a sign saying \"May-Day! May-Day!! Sinking Subway System!\"\n\nOn January 2, 2007, film student Cameron Hollopeter suffered a seizure in the station and fell off the platform onto the tracks. Wesley Autrey saved his life as a train was approaching. Autrey was given numerous awards and prizes, and his two daughters were given a scholarship.\n\nIn 2019, the MTA announced that the station would become ADA-accessible as part of the agency's 2020–2024 Capital Program.\n\nThis station has three tracks and two side platforms. In the past, it was sometimes used as a terminal station. There are switches north of the station that allow northbound trains to enter the underground 137th Street Yard, then return to the other side of the station for the next trip south. The center express track that passes through the station is currently unused in revenue service.\n\nJust south of the station, the tracks emerge from underground onto the Manhattan Valley Viaduct. The line is elevated at 125th Street, and then underground once again at 116th Street–Columbia University, allowing trains to maintain a relatively level grade while passing through highly uneven terrain.\n\nPrior to the discontinuation of the 9 on May 27, 2005, this station was the northernmost local stop shared by the 1/9 skip-stop service. All stations to the north were served by either the 1 or the 9, or were transfer stations between the services.\n\nThe mosaics are in pink and black. The ceramic cartouche is also in pink and shows a three-faced figure. The three faces represent \"Respice\", \"Adspice\", and \"Prospice\", and are an emblem of the nearby City College.\n\nEach platform has two exits:\n\n\nThe station was often shown on the TV drama \"New Amsterdam\", though the inside shots were taken at the Grand Central Shuttle station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952722", "title": "Liz Cho", "text": "Liz Cho\n\nLiz Cho is a news anchor at WABC-TV in New York City. She has co-anchored the weekday 4 and 6 p.m. editions of \"Eyewitness News\".\n\nCho grew up in Concord, Massachusetts, and has a younger brother, Andrew. She was born to Sang In Cho (d. March 13, 2009), a Korean American surgeon, and a Jewish-American nurse, Donna Cho (née Weltman). Her father, born and raised in South Korea, immigrated to the United States to practice medicine and was a liver and kidney transplant surgeon who headed the team that did the first liver transplant in Boston. He died from colon cancer on March 13, 2009. Liz Cho attended Boston University, majoring in journalism and history.\n\nHer first professional work in journalism was as an assignment editor at New England Cable News in Newton, Massachusetts. Cho was next a reporter at WPLG in Miami, Florida before moving to ABC News as a Chicago-based correspondent for ABC NewsOne, the network's affiliate news service. She later co-anchored ABC's overnight news program, \"World News Now\", with Derek McGinty. During this time, she also served as a correspondent and fill-in anchor for \"Good Morning America\".\n\nCho started at WABC-TV on July 6, 2003, replacing Diana Williams at 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. In 2011, Cho began anchoring the station's new \"First at 4:00\" newscast, with David Novarro, filling the hour left vacant by the departure of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show.\" In addition, as of 2012, she continues to anchor the 6 p.m. broadcasts with Bill Ritter.\n\nIn 2003, Cho was listed as one of \"People\" magazine's \"50 Most Beautiful People\". She and husband Evan Gottlieb had daughter Louisa Simone Gottlieb on May 17, 2007, in New York City. \n\nCho filed for divorce from Gottlieb in 2012. In August 2014, Cho became engaged to journalist Josh Elliott. On July 11, 2015, she married Elliott in Montecito, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952724", "title": "Northern Areas Council", "text": "Northern Areas Council\n\nNorthern Areas Council is a local government area in the Yorke and Mid North region of South Australia. The council seat and main council offices are at Jamestown, while the council also maintains district offices at Gladstone and Spalding.\n\nMost of the region was first settled in the early 1840s, only a few years after the settlement of Adelaide. Several explorers had passed through the area on their way to more remote places, including Edward John Eyre and John Horrocks.\n\nThe Northern Areas Council came into effect on 3 May 1997, when the District Council of Rocky River, the District Council of Spalding and the District Council of Jamestown merged. Rocky River and Jamestown had themselves previously been subject to a number of amalgamations, and had a large number of predecessor municipalities; in contrast, the Spalding council had a much different history, as prior to the merger, it had been an independent municipality predating the landmark \"District Councils Act 1887\".\n\nThe district encompasses a number of towns and localities, including Andrews, Beetaloo Valley, Belalie East, Belalie North, Broughton River Valley, Bundaleer Gardens, Bundaleer North, Caltowie, Caltowie North, Caltowie West, Euromina, Georgetown, Gladstone, Gulnare, Hacklins Corner, Hornsdale, Jamestown, Laura, Mannanarie, Mayfield, Narridy, Spalding, Washpool, West Bundaleer and Yacka, and part of Appila, Canowie Belt, Huddleston, Stone Hut, Tarcowie and Yatina.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952728", "title": "Redway School (Humboldt County)", "text": "Redway School (Humboldt County)\n\nRedway School is located in Southern Humboldt County, California. Redway School is a K-6 school serving 325 students in a area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952743", "title": "Lorenzo Bianchi", "text": "Lorenzo Bianchi\n\nLorenzo Bianchi (; 1 April 1899 – 13 February 1983) was born in Italy, at Corteno, near Brescia. Mons. Lorenzo Bianchi was ordained Priest of Pontifical Institute for Foreign Missions (PIME) on 23 September 1922 and arrived in Hong Kong on 13 September 1923.\n\nIn 1924, Bianchi worked in Sai Kung, New Territories; from 1925 to 1929 in Swa Bue, Hoi Fung District; from 1930 to 1941 (and for a 2nd time from 1948 to 1949) he was the director of Hoi Fung District. He was appointed as coadjutor bishop of Hong Kong on 21 April 1949 and was consecrated titular bishop of Choma on 9 October 1949 and returned to Hoi Fung. He succeeded his predecessor on 3 September 1951 and, after he was released from China, installed on 26 October 1952. He resigned on 30 November 1968 and was appointed the titular bishop of Sorres until 10 October 1976. He returned to Italy 19 April 1969 and there died on 13 February 1983.\n\nThe Caritas Bianchi College of Careers (CBCC) in Hong Kong is named after Bianchi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952749", "title": "Waddy Wachtel", "text": "Waddy Wachtel\n\nRobert \"Waddy\" Wachtel (born May 24, 1947) is an American musician, composer and record producer, most notable for his guitar work. Wachtel has worked as session musician for other artists such as Linda Ronstadt, Stevie Nicks, Keith Richards (guitarist of Keith's side-band The X-pensive Winos), The Rolling Stones (lead guitar on Saint Of Me), Jon Bon Jovi, James Taylor, Iggy Pop, Warren Zevon, Bryan Ferry, Michael Sweet, Jackson Browne, and Andrew Gold, both in the studio and live.\n\nWachtel was born May 24, 1947, in Jackson Heights in the New York City borough of Queens. Waddy is Jewish. At about age 9–10, Wachtel began to learn to play the guitar, taking lessons with teacher Gene Dell (who insisted that he learn to play right-handed despite being naturally left-handed) until about age 14. At that age, he says, he began writing songs. \n\nWachtel also studied with Rudolph Schramm, who was the head of the NBC staff orchestra and went on to teach music at Carnegie Hall. Schramm tried to get Wachtel to take piano lessons, but Wachtel was intent on playing guitar so Schramm agreed to give him guitar lessons three times a week on rhythm, melody and harmony.\n\nAfter performing with local bands in the New York area, Wachtel formed his own band, The Orphans, who played in Connecticut and New Hampshire. Eventually the band settled into a regular bar band routine, playing in Newport, Rhode Island, where Wachtel took lessons from Sal Salvador. When the Orphans disbanded, he formed another band, Twice Nicely. At the suggestion of Bud Cowsill (of The Cowsills), he brought Twice Nicely to Los Angeles in 1968 where they recorded a few demos, but after two years, Wachtel decided to work as a session player, recording with The Cowsills and producing their albums.\n\nIn 1972, he made an appearance in the film \"The Poseidon Adventure\" with the actual band on stage in the dining room when the ship capsizes. \nHe also played in the Oscar's awarded short film \"Session Man\" in 1991.\nWachtel has composed and played instruments for film scores including \"Joe Dirt\", \"Up in Smoke\", \"Nice Guys Sleep Alone\", \"The Longest Yard\", \"The Benchwarmers\", \"Grandma's Boy\", \"\", \"Strange Wilderness\", \"The House Bunny\", and \"\". He has also composed, produced, or performed in songs with Warren Zevon, Joe Walsh, Jackson Browne, Linda Ronstadt and others.\n\nIn 1972, he was hired by Warren Zevon to play guitar on The Everly Brothers \"Stories We Could Tell\" album and join them in a subsequent tour.\n\nBy 1973, he played with Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks on their first album \"Buckingham Nicks\" (credited as 'Waddy', no surname), and on tour. Later, when Nicks and Buckingham joined Fleetwood Mac, he played rhythm guitar on their 1975 album \"Fleetwood Mac\" on the track \"Sugar Daddy\".\n\nIn 1980, he wrote, recorded and sang lead vocals on an album for producer Peter Asher with members of Linda Ronstadt's band, including musicians Don Grolnick, Dan Dugmore, Stanley Sheldon and Rick Marotta. Both the group and the album were titled Ronin. Released on the Mercury label, the record never charted.\n\nIn 1984 he played on Steve Perry's (Journey) solo album Street Talk.\n\nHe has appeared on hundreds of albums with many different artists and bands.\n\nProduction credits include albums by Stevie Nicks, Keith Richards, Jackson Browne, Bryan Ferry, The Church, Sand Rubies, George Thorogood and the Destroyers and Warren Zevon. Wachtel co-wrote several songs with Zevon including \"Werewolves of London\". He also co-wrote the Warren Zevon song \"Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead\" from the album \"Mr. Bad Example\". He performed on and co-produced the first two Zevon albums.\n\nWachtel also shares co-writing credits with Stevie Nicks on a few tracks such as \"Annabel Lee\", and \"I Don't Care\".\n\nWachtel has been credited on some albums as Bob Wachtel, but some online sources have incorrectly credited him as Richard Wachtel on albums on which he was credited as having played guitar.\n\nWachtel and his wife Annie were arrested in 1998 on suspicion of possession of child pornography after illicit images were found on a computer they had in their home, also hard copies and duplicates of child porn were found in the home. The case against Wachtel's wife was dismissed; Wachtel pleaded no contest and was placed on probation for three years.\n\nMusician Brett Tuggle defended Wachtel and his wife, saying \"there is no way that Stevie would have him in her band if she thought he was guilty of any wrongdoing.\"\n\nWachtel plays a 1960 Gibson Les Paul and 1957 Fender Stratocaster. He said in a 1980 interview that the newest made guitar he owned was a 1964 Fender Stratocaster. Wachtel purchased the Les Paul guitar from Stephen Stills for $350. In September 2014 the Gibson Custom Shop chose the 1960 Les Paul Waddy Wachtel guitar for their new Collector's Choice series.\n\nWachtel performs regularly with the Waddy Wachtel Band in the Los Angeles area, notably at The Joint from 2000 through 2013. The band at that time included Phil Jones, Rick Rosas, Bernard Fowler and Blondie Chaplin, among others. He continues to gig with his band, with some personnel changes, while retaining Fowler and Chaplin. Many famous artists have performed with the band as special guests.>\n\nWachtel appeared on the 2010 Grammy Award television show backing Taylor Swift's live presentation. In Swift's duet with Nicks on the song \"Rhiannon\", Wachtel was featured on lead guitar.\n\nWith Andrew Gold\n\nWith Ringo Starr\n\nWith Keith Richards\n\nWith Phoebe Snow\n\nWith Jackson Browne\n\nWith Melissa Etheridge\n\nWith Helen Reddy\n\nWith Ronnie Hawkins\n\nWith Ivan Neville\n\nWith John Prine\n\nWith Kim Carnes\n\nWith James Taylor\n\nWith Bonnie Raitt\n\nWith Linda Ronstadt\n\nWith Neil Young\n\nWith Rita Coolidge\n\nWith Carole King\n\nWith Stevie Nicks\n\nWith LeAnn Rimes\n\nWith Don Henley\n\nWith Randy Newman\n\nWith Jon Bon Jovi\n\nWith John Mayer\n\nWith Beth Hart\n\nWith Robbie Williams\n\nWith Bob Dylan\n\nWith Jackie DeShannon\n\nWith Ronnie Wood\n\nWith Amanda Marshall\n\nWith Neil Diamond\n\nWith Karla Bonoff\n\nWith Gilby Clarke\n\nWith Miranda Lambert\n\nWith Kenny Rogers\n\nWith Dolly Parton\n\nWith Wendy Waldman\n\nWith Warren Zevon\n\nWith Bette Midler\n\nWith Cher\n\nWith Bryan Ferry\n\nWith Sheryl Crow\n\nWith Graham Nash\n\nWith Rod Stewart\n\nWith Maria Muldaur\n\nWith Rosanne Cash\n\nWith Tracy Chapman\n\nWith Leo Sayer\n\nWith Van Stephenson\n\n"}
{"id": "1952756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952756", "title": "Rebana", "text": "Rebana\n\nThe rebana or terbangan is a Malay tambourine that is used in Islamic devotional music in Southeast Asia, particularly in Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei, and Singapore. The sound of the rebana often accompany Islamic ritual such as the zikir. The name \"rebana\" came from the Arabic word \"robbana\" (\"our Lord\"). The \"rebana\" is also used by the Cham people of Cambodia and also gave rise to the \"Rabana\" which is used by the Sinhalese people of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe largest type of Malay rebana, the \"rebana ibi\", is widely used by people in east-coast states of Kelantan and Terengganu.\n\nThis instrument is derived from the Arabic cultural elements. but according to the saga of local stories, musical instruments Kompang entrance on the ground wither exactly selangor brought by the great scholar of the family entourage of the Pondok Tegalsari in Ponorogo, the island of Java, which is the forerunner of Pondok Modern Darussalam Gontor, dato Khasan Besari. The delegation of Jawa intend to enliven the marriage of his son Dato Zainal Abidin who was about to marry the daughter of the king of Malay Selangor. After the king's death Selangor, Selangor position as king was replaced by Zaenal Abidin and hereditary until now.\n\nSmaller rebanas also known as Kompangs are widely used by the Malay people when celebrating the bride and groom in a wedding ceremony. Rebana Hadrah came from the state of Johor.\n\nThe Rebana is the image engraved on one side of the Malaysian 1 sen coin.\n\nRebana in Indonesia is particularly associated with the Muslim community, such as the Minang in Sumatra and the Betawi in Jakarta.\n\nThe Minang people of West Sumatra use rebana in their traditional dance.\n\nThe redep or redap is a type of rebana from Palembang, South Sumatra. It is usually colored in red, black, and gold; a typical color in Palembang art. The redep is part of the kulintang ensemble of southern Sumatra, sometimes together with the serunai (oboe-like double reed) and a violin. These combinations suggest a combined influence of Buddhist, Hindu, Portuguese, Malay and Western Asia, Arab origins. West Asian music influenced southern Sumatra since the early 16th century when a Muslim sultanate of mixed Javanese and Arab blood reigned in Palembang.\n\nThe rebana in Jakarta is particularly associated with the Muslim community of Betawi, often found in Central and South Jakarta. Each kampong in Jakarta has its own rebana, for example, Rebana Burdah can be found in Kuningan Barat \"Kelurahan\" (Mampang Prapatan Subdistrict), while Rebana Maukhid is from Pejaten \"Kelurahan\" (Pasar Minggu Subdistrict). Rebana may be used in a wedding ritual or in a circumcision ceremony. \n\nRebana Biang is a large, jingle-less, 90 centimeter in diameter rebana. Rebana Biang can still be found in southern area of Jakarta, e.g. Ciganjur, Cijantung, Cakung, Ciseeng, Parung, Pondok Rajeg, Bojong Gede, and Citayam. Pondok Cina and Bintaro area used to have a Rebana Biang tradition, but it had vanished due to urbanization. Rebana Biang is also known as Rebana Gede, Rebana Salun, Gembyung, and Terbang Selamat. Rebana Biang is different with typical rebanas in which it has no metal jingles and the drumhead (or \"wangkis\") is fixed using wedges instead of nails (not different with the \"Tifa\" from Maluku). It is assumed that the Rebana Biang originated from the period before the coming of Islam to Indonesia. Rebana Biang may accompany other smaller rebanas in an ensemble. Because of its large size, feet and knees may be used to support the rebana, which may also be used to control the sound of the rebana. \n\nRebana Burdah is a 50 centimeter in diameter rebana. The name \"Burdah\" comes from the Al Burda \"qaida\" (\"qaida\" is a form of Arabic poem) which is usually accompanied by the Rebana Burdah ensemble, or from the name of the leader of the Rebana Burdah ensemble, the Arab descendant Sayid Abdullah Ba'mar. Rebana Burdah can be found in Kuningan Sarat (Mampang Prapatan Subdistrict). \n\nRebana Maukhid is a 40 centimeter in diameter rebana from Pejaten, Pasar Minggu Subdistrict. Rebana Maukhid usually accompanies song by Abdullah Alhadad, who is said to come from Hadhramaut, and whose descendants live in Pejaten. \n\nRebana Ketimpring contains three pairs of jingles in its body. The ensemble of Rebana Ketimpring contains three players, each holding three rebanas with sizes between 20 and 25 centimeter called \"rebana tiga\", \"rebana empat\", and \"rebana lima\" respectively. \"Rebana lima\" is placed in the center and acts as the leader of the ensemble. Rebana Ketimpring are used in the feast of a wedding ceremony (called \"ngarak\") or in a blessing-asking rituals such as a circumcision ritual or after a child birth (called \"maulid\")\n\nRebana Dor is a rebana which contains small holes on its side to ease its handling. Rebana Kasidah or Qasidah is a modernized form of Rebana Dor whose singer is usually a female. Rebana Kasidah is the most popular form of rebana, with more than 600 bands of Rebana Kasidah in Jakarta alone, and is considered a pop music.\n\nThe rebana is also used among the Cham and Malay ethnic groups in Cambodia. A large variation of the rebana is used in the Yike theatre of Cambodia where it is called \"skor yike\" ស្គរយីកេ (or \"yike\" drum).\n"}
{"id": "1952759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952759", "title": "Tamala Edwards", "text": "Tamala Edwards\n\nTamala Monique Edwards (born April 7, 1971) is an American television news anchor and reporter.\n\nShe began her journalism career as a correspondent for \"Time\" magazine in 1993, eventually working in the Washington, D.C. bureau. In August 2001, she came to work for ABC News as a White House correspondent, later moving on to be a Washington D.C.-based general correspondent appearing on \"World News Tonight\" and \"Good Morning America\".\n\nEdwards also anchored two ABC News newscasts, \"World News Now\" and \"World News This Morning\" and discovered a bit of a cult following as several other World News Now anchors have.\n\nIn 2005, she moved to ABC owned and operated station WPVI-TV in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania where she currently is the weekday morning \"Action News\" anchor and a feature reporter.\n\nEdwards married Rocco Lugrine, executive pastry chef of Le Bec Fin, on September 19, 2006. They became first-time parents on August 31, 2009, when Tamala gave birth to a boy, Rocco Alexander Edwards Lugrine. Mrs. Edwards gave birth to another boy, Massimo John Edwards Lugrine, on September 11, 2012.\n\nHer parents are Edith and Redick Edwards, who live in Houston, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952761", "title": "Enrico Valtorta", "text": "Enrico Valtorta\n\nEnrico Pascal Valtorta () (14 May 1883 – 3 September 1951) was the last Apostolic Vicar and the first Roman Catholic bishop of Hong Kong. He was born in Italy at Carate Brianza, and was ordained priest in Milan on 30 March 1907 for the Pontifical Institute for Foreign Missions (PIME). He arrived in Hong Kong on 5 October 1907 and from 1909 to 1911 was apostolic missionary for Nam Tau (San On District) and Sai Kung (New Territories); Rector of St. Joseph's Church at Garden Road and teacher at seminary in 1913; Chaplain to Victoria Gaol (1921–1925).\nAppointed 4th Vicar Apostolic of Hong Kong on 8 March 1926, was consecrated Titular Bishop of Lerus on 13 June 1926. Hong Kong Apostolic Vicariate was raised to a Diocese on 11 April 1946. Bishop Valtorta was installed as Bishop of the Hong Kong Diocese on 31 October 1948. He died in Hong Kong in 1951. Valtorta College in Tai Po was named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952763", "title": "I Am a Rock", "text": "I Am a Rock\n\n\"I Am a Rock\" is a song written by Paul Simon. It was first performed by Simon alone as the opening track on his album \"The Paul Simon Songbook\" which he originally recorded and released in August 1965, only in the United Kingdom. Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel, as the American folk rock duo Simon and Garfunkel, re-recorded it on December 14, 1965, and included as the final track on their album \"Sounds of Silence\", which they released on January 17, 1966.\n\nThematically, \"I Am a Rock\" deals with isolation and emotional detachment. The song was not included on Simon & Garfunkel's acoustic debut album, \"Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M.\", which was released on October 19, 1964. Some sources say that it was performed by Simon on January 27, 1965, on a promo show for the BBC. Simon likely began writing the song before the end of January 1964, and had it completed by May 1965, when he first recorded it. It was included on his solo-acoustic \"The Paul Simon Songbook\" LP released in the UK in the summer of 1965. \nUntil 1981, the initial recording of \"I Am a Rock\" on \"The Paul Simon Song Book\" remained unavailable in North America. This was partly because Simon himself was dissatisfied with the album, saying on the album's liner notes:\n\"\"This L.P. contains twelve of the songs that I have written over the past two years. There are some here that I would not write today. I don't believe in them as I once did. I have included them because they played an important role in the transition. It is discomforting, almost painful, to look back over something someone else created and realize that someone else was you. I am not ashamed of where I've been and what I've thought. It's just not me anymore. It is perfectly clear to me that the songs I write today will not be mine tomorrow. I don't regret the loss.\"\"\nAs a result, the \"Song Book\" album was only made available in North America when it was released as part of the boxed set of albums \"Paul Simon: Collected Works\". The album was not released on CD until March 23, 2004. For this release Columbia included two bonus tracks, one of which was an alternate take of \"I Am a Rock\", during which one can plainly hear Simon stamping his foot for a beat.\n\nIn 1965, the solo-acoustic version \"I Am a Rock\" was also released as a rare A-side of a single in the UK, backed with \"Leaves That are Green\".\n\nWhile Simon was in Europe during the summer of 1965, Tom Wilson, the producer of \"Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M.\", responded to requests for \"The Sound of Silence\" from American radio stations and dubbed an electric guitar, bass, and drums onto the original track. He then released the song as a single, whereupon it entered the United States pop charts. When Simon heard about the success of this song, he was still touring in Europe as a solo folk singer.\n\nSimon immediately returned to the United States, and with Garfunkel in December 1965 began a series of hasty recording sessions to match the electric \"mold\" created by Wilson with many of the other songs that Simon had recorded on the \"Song Book\", including \"I Am a Rock,\" which was re-recorded during these sessions on 14 December 1965. The result was the album \"Sounds of Silence\", which the duo released the following January. \"I Am a Rock\" was the fifth and closing track on Side 2 of the record. Along with most of the other tracks on the album, it was produced by Bob Johnston and recorded in New York at Columbia Recording Studios using some of the same session players that had appeared on Bob Dylan's recent \"Highway 61 Revisited\" LP.\n\nThe album quickly capitalized on the success of the new album's title track as a #1 single, and itself rose to #21 on the Billboard charts. The duo cashed in quickly on their new-found success. They released \"I Am a Rock\" as a single in the late spring of 1966, and the song reached #3 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 charts, the third single (chronologically) by Simon & Garfunkel to reach the top 5 (after \"The Sound of Silence\" and \"Homeward Bound\").\n\nThis single had two incarnations. First, as a promotion, it was released on red vinyl to radio stations, with a mono mix on one side and a stereo version on the other. These copies are somewhat difficult to locate for collectors. The standard version sold in stores, however, was the black vinyl 45 rpm record with the red Columbia Records label. The B-side was a version of \"Flowers Never Bend with the Rainfall,\" which was later released on Simon & Garfunkel's even-more-successful (and critically acclaimed) album \"Parsley, Sage, Rosemary and Thyme\". The single mix of the song features a more prominent lead vocal track (and different phrasing in the opening lines) by Paul Simon, and less reverb, than the more common LP version.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952782", "title": "Camp Becket", "text": "Camp Becket\n\nCamp Becket, also known as Camp Becket-in-the-Berkshires, is a YMCA summer camp for boys in the Berkshires of western Massachusetts. Founded in 1903 by George Hannum on Rudd Pond in Becket, Massachusetts, it is one of the oldest continually operational summer camps in the United States, and is consistently rated among the best camps of its kind. The camp aspires to teach core values espoused by its second director, Henry Gibson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952785", "title": "London Film-Makers' Co-op", "text": "London Film-Makers' Co-op\n\nThe London Film-makers' Co-op, or LFMC, was a British film-making workshop founded in 1966. It ceased to exist in 1999 when it merged with London Video Arts to form LUX.\n\nIt grew out of film screenings at the Better Books bookstore, part of the 1960s counter-culture in London, before moving to the original Arts Lab on Drury Lane, then sharing offices with John 'Hoppy' Hopkins' BIT information service and then, with the breakaway group that formed the New Arts Lab, to the Camden-based Institute for Research in Art and Technology. With the end of IRAT's lease in 1971 the Co-op found a base in a long-term squat in a former dairy at 13a Prince of Wales Crescent in Kentish Town. For most of its life the LFMC was based in Gloucester Avenue in Camden in a run down building which for a number of years also housed the London Musicians Collective. In 1997 the LFMC moved together with London Video Arts to the new Lux Centre, Hoxton Square.\n\nFounded by, amongst others, Stephen Dwoskin and Bob Cobbing, inspired by Jonas Mekas's The Film-Makers' Cooperative in New York. One difference between the New York Co-op and the LFMC was that the LFMC was organized as an egalitarian, worksharing cooperative, which assisted production as well as distribution.\n\nIt initially had close links with American experimental cinema. Carla Liss ran the co-op's distribution archive.\n\nFilmmakers associated with the group include Malcolm Le Grice, Peter Gidal, Michael \"Atters\" Attree, Carolee Schneemann, Annabel Nicolson, Lis Rhodes, Gill Eatherley, Roger Hammond, Mike Dunford, Sandra Lahire, David Crosswaite, Philip Goring, Fred Drummond, \"et al.\" and William Raban, who managed the LFMC workshop from 1972 - 76. Sally Potter made several short films at the LFMC in the early 1970s.\n\nWork produced by members of the LFMC in the late 1960s and early 1970s has been labelled Structural/Materialist Film.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952789", "title": "Chobanids", "text": "Chobanids\n\nThe Chobanids or the Chupanids () were descendants of a Mongol family of the Suldus clan that came to prominence in 14th century Persia. At first serving under the Ilkhans, they took \"de facto\" control of the territory after the fall of the Ilkhanate. The Chobanids ruled over Azerbaijan (where they were based), Arrān, parts of Asia Minor, Mesopotamia, and west central Persia, while the Jalayirids took control in Baghdad.\n\nThe early Chobanids were members of the Soldus tribe. Sorgan Sira, one of the first important Chobanids, served Genghis Khan during the latter's rise to power. Later on, the Chobanids came to live under the authority of the Ilkhanate. A descendant of Sorgan Sira, Amir Tudahun, was killed in 1277 fighting against the Mamluks at the battle of Elbistan. He left a son, \"Malek\" (king), who in turn fathered Amir Chupan, the namesake of the Chobanids.\n\nDuring the early 14th century, Amir Chupan served under three successive Ilkhans, beginning with Ghazan Mahmud. A military commander of note, Chupan quickly gained a degree of influence over the Ilkhans and married several members of the line of Hulagu Khan. His power fueled resentment among the nobility, who conspired against him in 1319 but failed. The Ilkhan Abu Sa'id, however, also disliked Chupan's influence and successfully eliminated him from court. He fled in 1327 to Herat, where the Kartids executed him. Several of his sons fled to the Golden Horde or the Mamluks of Egypt while others were killed.\n\nThe Chobanids were not completely wiped out from Persia. A daughter of Chupan's, Baghdad Katun, had caught the eye of Abu Sa'id. During Chupan's lifetime, she had been married to Hasan Buzurg, the future founder of the Jalayirids, but after Chupan fled Hasan Buzurg divorced her, and she married Abu Sa'id. She quickly gained influence over the Ilkhan and exercised the wide powers given to her. She was alleged (but never proven) to have been involved in any conspiracies against the Ilkhan, but was believed by some to have caused Abu Sa'id's death in 1335. Abu Sa'id's successor Arpa Ke'un executed her.\n\nArpa Ke'un's position proved to be weak; when a granddaughter of Chupan, Delsad Katun, fled to Diyarbakr, it caused the governor of that region to attack and defeat the Ilkhan. During the strife that occurred in the next few years, individual members of the Chobanids sided with various factions, such as Arpa or Hasan Buzurg. The latter ended up marrying Delsad Katun, who provided for the heirs to the Jalayirid position.\n\nWhile the Jalayirids were consolidating their position in Iraq, however, other Chobanid were also busy. Hasan Kucek, a grandson of Chupan, rallied much of the Chobanid family to his side and defeated the Jalayirids in 1338, paving the way for a Chobanid realm in the area around Tabriz. That same year, he elevated Sati Beg, sister of Abu Sa'id and widow of Chupan, to the Ilkhanid throne. To keep Sati Beg in check, he forced her to marry his puppet Suleiman Khan. Hasan Kucek continued to fight the Jalayirids (a fight which was further complicated by the incursions made by Togha Temur of Khurasan), but family infighting proved to be the most difficult challenge. Several members defected to the Jalayirids; in any case, Hasan Kucek was forced to deal with them up until his death in 1343.\n\nA power struggle quickly emerged after Hasan Kucek's death. During the dispute, Hasan Kucek's brother Malek Asraf gained the upper hand and eliminated his uncles. By the end of 1344, Malek Asraf had gained effective control of the Chobanid lands. Like his predecessor, Malek Asraf used puppet monarchs from behind which he ruled. During his reign, the Chobanid attempted to capture Baghdad from the Jalayirids in 1347 but failed miserably. He also failed to seize Fars from the Injuids in 1350. As his reign wore on, Malek Asraf became more and more cruel, prompting widespread dissatisfaction amongst his subjects. When forces of the Golden Horde overran the Chobanid realm and captured Tabriz in 1357, few lamented the loss of power by the Chupanids. Malek Asraf was executed, and his family brought north to the Golden Horde. Malek Asraf's offspring were eventually killed off in Persia, bringing a definitive end to the Chobanids as a power.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952792", "title": "John Bonifaz", "text": "John Bonifaz\n\nJohn C. Bonifaz (born 22, June 1966, in Wilmington, DE) is an Amherst-based attorney and political activist specializing in constitutional law and voting rights. He is the president and co-founder of Free Speech for People. He is also the founder of the National Voting Rights Institute and a former candidate for Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. In 1999, he received a MacArthur Fellowship, popularly known as the \"genius award.\"\n\nIn February and March 2003, Mr. Bonifaz served as lead counsel for a coalition of US soldiers, parents of US soldiers, and members of Congress in \"John Doe I v. President Bush\", a constitutional challenge to President Bush's authority to wage war against Iraq absent a congressional declaration of war or equivalent action. He argued that the President's planned first-strike invasion of Iraq violated the War Powers Clause of the US Constitution. The lawsuit was initially dismissed in February 2003 and in March 2003 the dismissal was upheld on appeal. Regarding the initial dismissal, Attorney Bonifaz said \"They're not supposed to sideline ... Courts cannot shirk from responsibility when it looks like a political battle.\" Regarding the affirmation of the dismissal, the appeals court held \"... the text of the October Resolution itself spells out justifications for a war and frames itself as an 'authorization' of such a war.\" \n\nBonifaz wrote the 2004 book \"Warrior-King: The Case for Impeaching George W. Bush\", which chronicles that case and its meaning for the United States Constitution. The book argues that the Iraq War was illegal.\n\nIn the aftermath of the release of the Downing Street Memo in 2005, Bonifaz co-founded After Downing Street and wrote a memo to Congressman John Conyers of Michigan, the Ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, urging him to introduce a Resolution of Inquiry directing the House Judiciary Committee to launch a formal investigation into whether sufficient grounds exist for the House to impeach President George W. Bush. Bonifaz participated in a discussion with former CIA Analyst Ray McGovern led by Rep. Conyers, advocating Bush's impeachment for misrepresenting the case for the Iraq war.\n\nBonifaz is also the founder of the National Voting Rights Institute (NVRI), where he most recently served as general counsel. In 2006, NVRI formed a partnership with Demos (US think tank), and as of January 1, 2007, Bonifaz signed on as Senior Legal Fellow with Demos. Founded in 1994, NVRI serves as a prominent legal and public education center dedicated to protecting the right of all citizens to vote and to participate in the electoral process on an equal and meaningful basis.\n\nFor his work with NVRI, he is a 1999 recipient of a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, also known as a \"genius\" award. In awarding the five-year fellowship, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation stated:\n\nBonifaz, a public interest lawyer, uses innovative litigation to reexamine campaign finance reform arguments typically debated on first amendment grounds. Through the National Voting Rights Institute, an organization he founded, Bonifaz recasts the legal arguments to focus on fourteenth amendment protections, challenging the relationship between money and politics.\n\nIn 2002, the Massachusetts legislature declined to fund the clean elections law, a public financing measure passed by voters in 1998. Bonifaz and the NVRI sued Massachusetts on behalf of Warren Tolman, a candidate for governor who had qualified for public financing and was not receiving the money. The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that the legislature must fund a law passed by the voters that it has not repealed. When the legislature persisted in not releasing the necessary funds to pay Tolman and other candidates, Bonifaz went to court again, and secured a ruling allowing his coalition to force the sale of state property. The legislature repealed the clean elections law after the 2002 elections.\n\nIn 2006, John Bonifaz ran for the Democratic nomination to be Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 2006 against incumbent William F. Galvin. He declared his candidacy on December 1, 2005, before it was known whether Galvin would run for re-election or for governor. Galvin won the primary election, which was held on September 19, 2006.\n\nDuring the campaign, Bonifaz was linked to the Green Party by his opponent, because he voted for Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader in Massachusetts in 2000, and because he received a campaign contribution from Jill Stein, the Green-Rainbow Party candidate for secretary of state. Jill Stein was one of the clients he represented in the Clean Elections lawsuit, and other clients from that case donated to his campaign, including Warren Tolman, a Democratic candidate for governor in 2002. After unenrolling from the Democratic Party prior to the 2000 election, Bonifaz later re-registered as a Democrat and has never been registered as a Green.\n\nBonifaz's campaign focused on election reform, promoting clean elections, same day registration, voting rights for minorities, and opposition to privately owned voting machines with proprietary software.\n\nFollowing the Citizens United decision, Bonifaz co-founded Free Speech for People with Jeff Clements. \"Free Speech For People is a national non-partisan campaign working to restore democracy to the people and to return corporations to their place as economic rather than political entities,\" to quote the organization's website. Bonifaz and Free Speech for People advocate for a new constitutional amendment to clarify that the Bill of Rights applies to people, not corporations. Also, a main supporter of impeach Trump Now.\n\nBonifaz has also litigated international human rights and environmental law cases, and, with his father Cristobal Bonifaz, has litigated against Chevron Corporation regarding pollution in the Lago Agrio oil field in the Ecuadorian Amazon. (Cristobal Bonifaz is a native of Ecuador.)\n\nBonifaz's great-grandfather was Neptalí Bonifaz, who was briefly president of Ecuador in 1931.\n\nA graduate of Brown University in 1987 and Harvard Law School cum laude in 1992, Bonifaz is married to Lissa Pierce Bonifaz. Lissa holds a doctorate in bilingual education.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952794", "title": "Rio Grande Gorge", "text": "Rio Grande Gorge\n\nThe Rio Grande Gorge is a geological feature in northern New Mexico where the watercourse of the Rio Grande follows a tectonic chasm. Beginning near the Colorado border, the approximately gorge runs from northwest to southeast of Taos, New Mexico, through the basalt flows of the Taos Plateau volcanic field. The gorge depth is just south of the Rio Grande Gorge Bridge, which spans the gorge northwest of Taos.\n\nGeologically, the Rio Grande Gorge is a canyon, carved out by erosion over the last several million years. The Rio Grande Gorge and its river follow a topographical low within the larger Rio Grande Rift; a mixture of volcanic activity, shifting tectonic plates, and erosion out of layers of gravels and lava yielded the recognizable narrow, deep gorge visible today. \n\nThe canyon ecosystem descends from rim to river, creating a unique diversity in plant and animal life. Ancient piñon and juniper forests are home to 500-year-old trees. Wildlife include mule deer, red-tailed hawk, mountain blue-bird, prairie dog and big horn sheep.\n\nThe climate is semi-arid with summer thunderstorms common in July and August, and snow possible from November through March. Summer temperatures range from and in winter from .\n\nIn 1968, the Rio Grande was among the first eight rivers the US Congress designated into the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System to protect outstanding resources values. The Wild and Scenic River flows through the Rio Grande Gorge Recreation Area. The recreation areas include the \"Wild Rivers\" area in the north and the \"Orialla Verde\" area in the south, which provide hiking, boating, fishing and camping facilities.\n\nThe gorge and of surrounding land was designated a National Monument, Rio Grande del Norte National Monument, on March 25, 2013.\n\nThe gorge has Class II to Class V white water rapids that are managed for recreation by The U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The BLM maintains two developed recreation areas along the river that include hiking, biking and other recreational opportunities. In New Mexico, The Rio Grande has two main sections for rafting near Taos: the Taos Box and the Racecourse Run. The Taos Box, a more dramatic, deep canyon, is famous for its big, technical Class IV rapids, while the Racecourse Run is a Class III stretch better suited for first-time rafters and families.\n\nThe gorge is also the site of many ancient petroglyphs. At the bottom of the gorge, the Rio Grande is flanked by hidden hot springs and many ruins. The former Chili Line also ran there. \n\nNASA geologically trained the Apollo Astronauts at the site in March and Sept. 1971, because of the striking similarities to the Apollo 15 landing site. Astronauts who would use this training on the Moon included Apollo 15's David Scott and James Irwin, Apollo 16's John Young and Charlie Duke, and Apollo 17's Jack Schmitt. Notable geologist instructors included William R. Muehlberger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952811", "title": "WRKO", "text": "WRKO\n\nWRKO (680 AM) – branded WRKO AM 680 – is a commercial news/talk radio station licensed to Boston, Massachusetts, serving Greater Boston and much of surrounding New England. Owned by iHeartMedia, WRKO is a Class B AM station that provides secondary coverage to portions of Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Hampshire and Maine during the day, but is highly directional at night to protect a number of clear-channel stations on adjacent frequencies. WRKO serves as the Boston affiliate for ABC News Radio, \"Coast to Coast AM\" and \"This Morning, America's First News with Gordon Deal\"; syndicated personalities Joe Pags, John Batchelor and Bill Cunningham; the flagship station of \"The Howie Carr Show\", and the home of radio personality Jeff Kuhner. The WRKO studios are located in the Boston suburb of Medford, while the station transmitter resides in nearby Burlington. Besides its main analog transmission, WRKO simulcasts over the HD2 subchannel of sister station WZLX, and streams online via iHeartRadio.\n\nWRKO is one of three AM stations owned by iHeartMedia in the Boston market that features a spoken word format; WBZ (1030 AM) has an all-news radio format during the day and local talk all night, while WXKS (1200 AM) carries an entirely syndicated conservative talk line up.\n\nThe station first went on the air as WLAW on December 19, 1937, at 680 on the AM dial. The station was licensed to Lawrence, Massachusetts, some 25 miles north of Boston, but with its transmitter in Burlington, Massachusetts, just outside of Boston. It was owned and operated by Hildreth and Rogers, publishers of the \"Lawrence Daily Eagle and Evening Tribune\".\n\nThe owners also acquired an FM station: WLAW-FM (93.7 FM) was officially dedicated on November 10, 1947. WLAW opened a Boston studio on Tremont Street in the theater district in the early 1940s. In mid-1951, WLAW and WLAW-FM moved to new studios at the Hotel Bradford in Boston.\n\nIn May 1953, General Teleradio, General Tire's broadcasting division and owner of WNAC (1260 AM), bought WLAW and WLAW-FM from Hildreth and Rogers for $475,000; and concurrently sold WNAC to Vic Diehm and Associates for $125,000. WLAW's availability was seen as a way to \"upgrade\" the signal for WNAC; in 1947, the FCC denied a request to allow WNAC (1260 AM) to move to 1200 kHz and boost its power, using a directional 50,000-watt transmitter. While generally regarded as a transaction that saw WNAC \"move\" from 1260 AM to 680 AM, in reality, on June 17, 1953, General Teleradio changed WLAW's call letters to WNAC, changed the format to WNAC (1260 AM)'s existing format, and reassigned on- and off-air personnel. In effect, this new WNAC (680 AM) licensed to Lawrence became the successor to WNAC (1260 AM) licensed to Boston.\n\nVic Diehm and Associates subsequently changed WNAC (1260 AM)'s calls to WVDA and launched a new format on that station utilizing the studios previously used by WLAW. WLAW-FM had its license surrendered, as WNAC-FM (98.5 FM) was retained by General Teleradio; a separate station on 93.7 FM also licensed to Lawrence signed on in 1960 as WGHJ; now known as WEEI-FM. WNAC's city of license was reassigned from Lawrence to Boston on July 25, 1957; at least until 1962, the legal station identification was \"WNAC Boston-Lawrence.\"\n\nFor a brief time in 1956 and 1957, WNAC was affiliated with both the Mutual Broadcasting System and the NBC Radio Network after WBZ dropped NBC programming. WNAC remained a Mutual affiliate until the network, of which General Tire (by then doing business as RKO Teleradio Pictures) was a part-owner, was sold in July 1957. WNAC also lost the NBC Radio affiliation to WEZE (1260 AM) (the former WVDA) in 1957. By December 1959, RKO Teleradio adopted the RKO General banner.\n\nIn December 1958, WNAC-FM changed call letters to WRKO-FM, but retained its' simulcast of WNAC's programming until 1963, when separate programming was inaugurated for half of the broadcast day.\n\nWNAC, along with WRKO-FM and WNAC-TV (Channel 7), were nearly sold by RKO General to NBC as part of a multi-city transaction and station trade between the two companies announced in March 1960. This arrangement wound up under review at both the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the U.S. Department of Justice due to issues involving NBC's previous exchange of assets with Westinghouse Broadcasting in Cleveland and Philadelphia. Ultimately, the RKO-NBC transaction never materialized.\n\nOn October 12, 1966, WRKO-FM dropped its simulcast of WNAC outside of overnights and morning drive, and introduced an automated top 40 format. Owing to WRKO-FM's relative success with that format, RKO General changed WNAC's call sign to WRKO on March 3, 1967, and the format also switched to Top 40; both stations would still simulcast each other for 11 hours a day. With this move, the Yankee Network, of which WNAC and predecessor WNAC (1260 AM) had been the flagship station of since 1929, ceased operations.\n\nThe move to a Top 40 format in March 1967 was an enormous success. For the next decade, WRKO was one of Boston's top-rated radio stations, and absolutely dominant among its target audience of listeners in the 18-34 demographic. Known to its listeners as \"The Big 68,\" WRKO was home to such well-known personalities as longtime morning man Dale Dorman, Chuck Knapp, Joel Cash, Johnny Dark, J. J. Wright, J. J. Jeffrey, Harry Nelson (Afternoon Drive and later PD of WRKO in 1978), Shadoe Stevens, Frank Kingston Smith (who was known as \"Bobby Mitchell\"), Steve Anthony and many others. Mel Phillips, who replaced Bob Henabery as program director, served in that position from 1967 to 1972 before being replaced by Scotty Brink.\n\nWRKO in 1967 even took a dig at market leader WBZ, a Westinghouse Broadcasting station that played popular music. In advance of WRKO's format change to Top 40, WBZ tried to get in front of WRKO by adopting the slogan \"Boss Radio\" (used on famous RKO General top 40 station KHJ in Los Angeles). WRKO, in response, was rumored to have had their DJs reading a liner that said \"WRKO, putting the Boss in the Restinghouse.\" WRKO \"did\" ultimately drive WBZ out of the top 40 format.\n\nWRKO's other main competitor was WMEX, which was Boston's original Top 40 station, starting the format in 1957. Even though WMEX's city ratings were good, it had a highly directional signal did not effectively reach many of the suburbs, especially at night. WRKO (and the growing popularity of FM rock stations) eventually drove WMEX to a format change in 1975, with WRKO remaining Boston's sole AM Top 40 station. In May 1975, WRKO's airborne traffic reporter, \"The Red Baron\" (Rick Blumberg), joined the morning team with Dale Dorman and Bill Rossi. The Red Baron was both the pilot and traffic reporter, flying at 1000 feet over Boston, in a fixed wing aircraft. 1975 and 1976 were the only years that WRKO had an aircraft in the sky.\n\nWRKO was propelled in its success by the introduction of the so-called Drake format originated by radio programmer Bill Drake. In contrast to other Top 40 formats at the time, it featured a limited playlist of only the top hits, with strict minimal talk and a more music approach presented in a straightforward manner. This format was adopted by other stations across the country, including RKO General stations KHJ Los Angeles, WHBQ Memphis and WOR-FM in New York (now WEPN-FM). Virtually any station using the Drake sound rose to the top of its market.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s, however, rock and Top 40 radio had begun to migrate from AM to FM. In a three-year period from 1978 to 1981, WRKO lost a chunk of its audience. The station tried to compete with the surge in FM listening, first with a short-lived focus on album cuts and later by switching to more of an adult contemporary music format, featuring a morning program with market legend Norm Nathan. A switch to a country music format was also reportedly briefly considered. In 1980, WRKO began running talk programming during evening hours.\n\nOn September 27, 1981, the station switched to an all-talk format; at 6:00 p.m. on that date, Justin Clark played the last song, \"American Pie\" by Don McLean. \n\nAfter switching to the talk radio format, Norm Nathan was retained as morning host; the initial lineup also included Dick Syatt in late mornings, Dr. Harry Sobel in middays, Jerry Williams in afternoon drive, and Guy Mainella and David Brudnoy in evenings. As it moved to more issue-oriented talk, some of the most prominent talk radio hosts in the country broadcast on WRKO, such as Gene Burns, the aforementioned Williams, Ted O'Brien, and Paul Parent. \n\nBut throughout the 1980s, WRKO's parent company, General Tire and Rubber, later renamed Gencorp, was under multiple federal investigations and ultimately under an FCC investigation due to its \"lack of candor\" for failing to disclose unlawful operations by General Tire. In the midst of the investigation into its parent company's problems, RKO General found itself under investigation for reciprocal trade practices involving several of its properties, and later for double billing by a radio network it organized, the RKO Network. The FCC license hearings culminated in the loss of the company's license to operate WNAC-TV; RKO General sold the station assets to New England Television Corporation, who was awarded a license for a replacement station. WNAC-TV signed off permanently on May 21, 1982, with WNEV-TV (now WHDH-TV) taking its place the next morning.\n\nAfter a long and protracted battle, FCC administrative law judge Edward Kuhlmann ruled on August 11, 1987 that all of RKO General's broadcast licenses, including WRKO's license, be denied renewal; this excluded WOR-TV, which had its city of license changed from New York to Secaucus, New Jersey, in an attempt to avoid the loss of its license, then was divested to MCA Inc. nine months prior to the ruling. Gencorp initially appealed the ruling, but was advised by the FCC that any appeal would be denied, and that their stations should be divested instead so as to avoid the indignity of additional license stripping without compensation. As part of the settlements worked out in Boston, New York, Memphis, Chicago, Fort Lauderdale, Los Angeles and San Francisco, WRKO and its FM sister station, WROR (now WBZ-FM), were sold to Atlantic Ventures Corp., operated by cable television executive Steve Dodge, for $28 million in November 1988; Gencorp only received $17.5 million, with the rest being awarded to past applicants that had competed for the licenses.\n\nOn December 1, 1992, Atlantic Ventures acquired WHDH (850 AM) from New England Television Corporation so as to pay down debt; the sale put both it and WRKO under the same ownership. Atlantic Ventures then merged with two other radio groups, Stoner Broadcasting Systems and Multi Market Communications, on June 5, 1993, to form American Radio Systems; then purchased the intellectual property of WEEI (590 AM) from Back Bay Broadcasting on August 15, 1994. As part of the deal, WHDH (850 AM) would change its call letters to WEEI (850 AM) and change format to sports radio; \"The Rush Limbaugh Show\", Howie Carr and the \"Skyway Patrol\" traffic report branding were all moved from WHDH to WRKO in the transaction, which was consummated that August 29. American Radio Systems merged its station holdings with CBS Radio in 1998; WRKO was spun off to Entercom, along with WAAF (now WKVB), WEEI (850 AM), WWTM (now WVEI) and WEGQ (now WEEI-FM), for $140 million.\n\nWRKO was, from 1986 to 1994, the flagship station for the Boston Red Sox. In 2006, Entercom inked a 10-year deal to make WRKO the co-flagship station for the Red Sox Radio Network along with WEEI; WEEI once again became the sole flagship station on August 26, 2009. WRKO also carried Boston Celtics basketball broadcasts from 2005 to 2007, when WEEI assumed the flagship station role.\n\nHowie Carr took over for Jerry Williams in the afternoon drive time slot in 1998, \"The Howie Carr Show\" eventually was picked up by other talk stations around New England and briefly syndicated by ABC Radio Networks before syndication was taken over by Entercom, and ultimately, by Carr himself. After a lengthy labor dispute between Carr and Entercom in 2007, WRKO dropped the program in November 2014, with Carr signing WMEX as a replacement affiliate for the Boston market. WRKO and Howie reached an agreement to carry the show again on March 16, 2015, but with the station as an affiliate instead of acting as his employer.\n\nOn November 16, 2006, all on-air news anchors and traffic reporters were fired. WGBH-TV's \"Beat the Press\" reported that the news and traffic reporters were informed individually and received severance pay. WRKO contracted with Metro Networks (now the Total Traffic and Weather Network) to provide hourly news updates, including traffic and weather, during the day. In announcing the decision, WRKO said that the station's local news and issues would be driven by the talk show hosts, instead of the news anchors.\n\nThe station itself made news in early November 2006, when late morning host John DePetro was fired following his on-air description of gubernatorial candidate Grace Ross as a \"fat lesbian.\" Former Massachusetts House Speaker Tom Finneran was then hired as WRKO's morning-drive host in January 2007, replacing Scott Allen Miller; WRKO host Todd Feinburg was added as a co-host in January 2009. Finneran was dropped from the lineup at the end of May 2012; his replacement, Michele McPhee, was paired with Fineburg until that October 31, when Jeff Kuhner was moved into the time slot.\n\nMassachusetts state trooper Grant Moulison was WRKO's lead traffic reporter from 1985 until retiring from the force in April 2006, with 32 years of service behind him. \n\nWRKO has notably dropped \"The Rush Limbaugh Show\" from its schedule two different times: the first time came in March 2010 when Clear Channel Communications (now iHeartMedia, current owners of WRKO) launched a talk station of its own on WXKS (1200 AM), and picked up the affiliation rights to it and other programs syndicated by Premiere Networks; this also included \"Coast to Coast AM\", which WRKO aired in overnights. After WXKS changed formats from talk radio to all-comedy in August 2012, both Rush Limbaugh and \"Coast to Coast AM\" returned to WRKO's lineup. WRKO dropped Rush Limbaugh again in May 2015, citing the expenses for running Limbaugh had risen too steeply; Kuhner was moved to the midday time slot, with a replacement morning show co-hosted by Kim Carrigan and Doug \"VB\" Goudie in a content partnership with \"The Boston Globe\".\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom; that October 10, CBS and Entercom placed WRKO, along with WKAF, WBZ, WBZ-FM, and WZLX, up for divestiture as part of the process of obtaining regulatory approval of the merger. iHeartMedia acquired WRKO, WBZ, WZLX and WKAF as part of a multi-market station and asset swap between it and Entercom; to meet ownership limits set by the FCC, WKOX was designated to be divested. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and consummated on the 17th. Until WKOX's spinoff into the Ocean Stations Trust was completed, WRKO was operated by the Entercom Divestiture Trust, while the sister stations began being operated by iHeart once the merger closed. iHeart began operating WRKO on December 19, 2017. On that date, it completed its acquisition of WRKO, WZLX, WKAF, and WBZ. With the ownership change, WRKO added a simulcast on the HD-2 signal of WZLX.\n\nWRKO's studios moved to iHeartMedia's facilities in Medford in July 2018; the main talk studio is shared with WBZ.\n\nIn late November 2018, WRKO moved Jeff Kuhner back to morning drive and Doug Goudie to middays, with Kim Carrigan exiting the station.\n\nWRKO has three local conservative talk shows on its weekday schedule; Jeff Kuhner hosts the drive time program, Doug Goudie hosts \"VB in the Middle\" in early afternoons, and \"The Howie Carr Show\", hosted by Howie Carr, airs in late afternoons; the latter program is regionally syndicated to a number of other talk stations in New England. \"The Financial Exchange with Barry Armstrong\", a regionally syndicated financial talk show, airs in late mornings. Conservative talk shows hosted by Joe Pags (syndicated via Compass Media Networks); and John Batchelor (syndicated via Westwood One) air during the evening hours. Paranormal/conspiracy theory oriented program \"Coast to Coast AM\" with George Noory airs through the overnight hours, via Premiere Networks. \"This Morning, America's First News with Gordon Deal\", also syndicated via Compass Media Networks, airs in the early morning hours.\n\nWRKO airs several weekend talk programs, including: \"Gun Talk\", \"Free Talk Live\", \"The Money Pit Home Improvement Radio Show\" and \"The Lutheran Hour\"; syndicated shows hosted by Gil Gross and Bill Cunningham; and assorted brokered programming. ABC News Radio begins most hours at night and on weekends, with local news updates provided by the Total Traffic and Weather Network.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952819", "title": "La ricotta", "text": "La ricotta\n\nLa ricotta (\"The Ricotta\", a curd cheese) is a short film written and directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini in 1962 and is part of the omnibus film \"Ro.Go.Pa.G.\" It is often considered the most memorable portion of \"Ro.Go.Pa.G\" and the height of Pasolini's creative powers and social criticism.\n\nIn summary, the film deals with the film production of the Passion of Jesus with a director acting like Pasolini yet played by Orson Welles. The most biting social critique is shown through the main character of Stracci (meaning \"rags\"). Stracci is a poor and starving man who works as an extra (ironically, the \"good thief\") who is not given pity or mercy. Stracci tries everything to get something to eat and he finally does. Unfortunately the ricotta cheese he avidly gorges on, combined with the awkward position he's forced to assume while being \"crucified\" in front of the camera prove a fatal combination and he dies from indigestion.\nStracci represents the poor and the marginalized people, \"the ones who hunger for bread\" who, according to Pasolini, are neglected by a society, which prides itself on being Christian. Thus, in this view, the Roman Catholicism of Italy is more concerned with status and prominence than helping the poor, a teaching of Christ that Pasolini admired greatly.\n\nThe production of the Passion, done outside of Rome, represents a corrupted society who is interested in superficial beauty and yet possesses a corrupted core. This is demonstrated with the extras' lack of interest with the film itself, preferring instead to dance to ya-ya twist music , lying around during break time and tormenting Stracci. This is also demonstrated in the elaborate poses the director has set up, evoking the great Italian Renaissance, particularly of Pontormo and Fiorentino and yet are far from respected.\n\nPasolini, in a disclaimer tacked in the beginning of \"La ricotta,\" affirms that the event narrated, the Passion, is the greatest event ever occurred, and as in \"The Gospel According to St. Matthew\", stressed that he held in great respect the Christian heritage. Despite this assertion, Pasolini was accused of holding contempt for the state religion and was sentenced four months of conviction, which he avoided by paying a fine . The sentence was later declared void by an appeals court.\n\nThe film is more easily available as a supplement on the \"Mamma Roma\" DVD available through the Criterion Collection\n\n"}
{"id": "1952822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952822", "title": "Killamarsh", "text": "Killamarsh\n\nKillamarsh is a town and civil parish in North East Derbyshire, England, bordering Sheffield and South Yorkshire to the North West. Killamarsh is surrounded by, in a clockwise direction from the north, Rother Valley Country Park, Wales, Kiveton, Woodall, Harthill, Barlborough, Spinkhill, Renishaw, Eckington, and the (former Derbyshire) Sheffield suburbs of Oxclose, Halfway and Holbrook. \n\nKillamarsh was mentioned in the \"Domesday Book\" with the name \"Chinewoldemaresc\" or \"Chinewolde\" meaning \"Cynewalds Marsh\". There are a number of smaller communities within the town; Norwood, Nethergreen, Westthorpe and Upperthorpe surround the main town centre.\n\nThe parish church of St. Giles contains gravestones dating back to the Saxon era as well as masonry work from the 12th century, and many stained glass windows. A number of public houses in Killamarsh are over 300 years old. Domesday records Killamarsh as belonging to Hascoit Musard and being valued at 12 pence.\n\nThe community originally grew from a farming community, self-sufficient in agricultural and dairy produce since the Middle Ages. In the 19th and 20th centuries, Killamarsh became a thriving mining town as the burgeoning Sheffield iron industry demanded coal and transport links with Sheffield matured. Coal has been mined in Killamarsh since at least the 15th century, but the first major mining operation opened at Norwood resulting in an almost doubling of the Killamarsh population between 1861 and 1871. The last two \"pits\", Westthorpe and High Moor, are now gone, casualties of the early 1980s pit closure programme.\n\nThe river Rother which flanks Killamarsh had provided power to grain mills since the earliest times and was used by ironmongers and smiths from the late 18th century.\n\nThere is an industrial estate located in the Norwood area north of the town and light industrial units and a business innovation centre to the south on the site of the old Westthorpe Colliery. To the west of Killamarsh is a small animal feed mill, and the factory of Ross and Catherall, a specialist alloys supplier to the aerospace industry.\n\nKillamarsh is situated on the eastern side of the Rother Valley.\nThe centre of Killamarsh can be defined as the junction where Bridge Street meets Sheffield Road, from which point the roads spawn to all other areas of the town. The surrounding area which contains the shops and businesses on Sheffield Road and Bridge Street are commonly known as The Village by locals (In a similar style to how Sheffield City Centre is referred to as Town by the city's residents). Progressing southwards up Sheepcote Hill and the communities of Upperthorpe and Westthorpe lie to the east and south east. In earlier times these were distinctively separate from the village centre but it is now difficult to define where the boundaries between the three actually are. To the west of the centre is Netherthorpe, which encompasses the area around the former railway lines and the new-build estates around Walford Road. The centre to south west of Killamarsh is dominated by housing estates built post-war and in the later half of the 20th century. The Rowan Tree Road area contains roads of mostly semidetached builds on roads which are named primarily after trees. Killamarsh's estate of pre-fabricated mostly council homes - dubbed the \"White City\", is adjacent. Norwood is in the north of the town and surrounds the main road which leads to Waleswood. Between this and Upperthorpe is Church Town and Nether Green, which surround the Kirkcroft Lane area. Out on the far eastern boundaries is High Moor, which due to its significant distance from the rest of Killamarsh is often described as a village in its own right.\n\nKillamarsh is roughly the same distance to the centres of Sheffield, Chesterfield and Rotherham. \nSheffield became the dominant connecting city as its burgeoning iron and steel industry demanded coal, and the road between Killamarsh and Sheffield was upgraded.\n\nThe main trunk route into Killamarsh is the B6058 (Station Road / Sheffield Road) which connects the town centre to the A6153 In Mosborough via Halfway, and the A618 at Norwood Roundabout. The A618 then runs south through High Moor towards Clowne, and north through Norwood towards the A57 at Aston. A handful of rural roads connect Killamarsh to the A6153 at Renishaw via Spinkhill. Other notable main roads in Killamarsh include Bridge Street, which runs through the heart of Killamarsh's commercial area, and Walford Road / Rowan Tree Road, which skirt the bulk of the town's residential area.\n\nKillamarsh is roughly equidistant to junctions 30 (Barlborough) and 31 (Aston) of the M1.\nKillamarsh is served by public transport. It is served by 2 services operated by Stagecoach in Chesterfield with 3 services operated by Stagecoach Yorkshire and 1 service operated by TM Travel. There are hourly services to Chesterfield in the form of the 80/80A which is an extension of the 80 bus to Brimington from Chesterfield as one bus an hour is extended from Brimington to Sheffield via Staveley, Killamarsh and Crystal Peaks. There are other services to Crystal Peaks and Thorpe Salvin with the 26/26A and Crystal Peaks to Clowne with the 74. TM Travel also operate a service, the X30 to Sheffield, once in the morning. Killamarsh used to have a service which went to Dinnington and Rotherham, First South Yorkshire's 27 which was cut back in the early 2010s. Killamarsh is also served by the 627 Rotherham - Kiveton Park, weekdays and only in school time.\n\nKillamarsh is no longer served by passenger rail transport, but before the Second World War, three railway lines made their way through the west side of the town, with three stations. These were, Killamarsh West (opened 1841), on the Midland Railway's Old Road route which bypassed Sheffield, Killamarsh Central (opened 1892), on the Great Central Railway's mainline from London to Manchester, and Upperthorpe and Killamarsh (opened 1898), on the LD&ECR's Beighton Branch into Sheffield. Upperthorpe and Killamarsh was the first station to close in 1930 after just 32 years of service, with the line itself closing with the outbreak of war nine years later. Post war, and in 1954 Killamarsh West Closed, with Killamarsh Central remaining open until 1963 when it too was closed, both stations victims of British Railways' vast closure schemes during this period. The track through the former Great Central line was eventually lifted in the early 1980s, and today forms part of the Trans Pennine Trail. The LD&ECR's route remains derelict to this day, complete with abandoned ballast and signalling cables. The Midland's Old Road route remains open to freight traffic, and has been the subject of debate in recent times over the possibility of reopening a station for Killamarsh on the Line.\n\nThe western side of Killamarsh was going to be significantly affected by the new HS2 route from Birmingham to Leeds, but following the government's favouring of an alternative route which will run parallel to the M1 motorway, this no longer likely to be the case.\n\nKillamarsh is one of the beneficiaries of the Sustrans Connect2 project for creating cycle routes. The project has now drawn to a close with the final erection of two new pedestrian and cycle bridges crossing the River Rother and the railway on the border of NE Derbyshire and Sheffield.\n\nThe Chesterfield Canal passed through the town on its way to Kiveton via the Norwood Tunnel, which was the joint longest canal tunnel in the UK at the time of its construction. The canal fell into disrepair following the collapse of the tunnel in 1907. The remains of the Chesterfield Canal are present but housing has been built on part of the canal's original route, and the undeveloped sections are mostly public footpaths. Work carried out in 2008 to create the Killamarsh Greenway brought large sections of the original canal towpath back into use as a traffic-free route through the town, with the intention that once restoration is complete, a significant section of the towpath will already be in a usable state. The canal has been restored from the Chesterfield end as far as Staveley. Work is ongoing to extend it towards Killamarsh with a new route proposed to bypass the missing section and link up to the existing canal at Kiveton. The planned new route will take in part of the old line of the canal and introduce some new sections including taking the canal in to Rother Valley Park before rejoining the original line for the ascent through Norwood.\n\nThe planned Rother Link will connect the Chesterfield Canal at Killamarsh, via the River Rother through to the Sheffield and South Yorkshire Navigation, thus creating a new cruising ring and encouraging boats to visit the Chesterfield Canal.\n\nKillamarsh has a library, medical centre, shopping areas, and newsagents. It also has good connections to local major towns by virtue of regular bus services and its location close to the Halfway terminus of the Sheffield Supertram network.\n\nUntil the 2000s Killamarsh had ten public houses, but four have closed in recent years. The pubs in Killamarsh today are The Midland on Sheffield Road, the Steelmelters on Netherthorpe Lane, The Crown Inn on Ashley Lane, the Travellers Rest on Mansfield Road, The Nags Head on Westthorpe Road, and the West End Hotel also on Westthorpe Road.\nThere are two social cubs in the town, The Juniors Athletics Club and The Nether Green WMC, both on Sheffield Road. The Parish Pump bar located within the Sports Centre is also open to the public during weekday evenings.\n\nRother Valley Country Park lies to the north of the town. It was created in the early 1980s as part of the restoration works following open cast mining of the area. Originally managed by a joint board of Sheffield MBC, Rotherham MBC, South Yorkshire MCC and Derbyshire CC, the park is now wholly managed by Rotherham. The scheme created a series of ponds and lakes, with the surrounding area landscaped to form a nature reserve and recreation areas, with facilities for water sports. The River Rother flows from the west of town and passes through the centre of the park.\n\nThe adjacent land to the north-east of Rother Valley Country Park was also open cast following the closure of the Beighton Pit. On that site, there was a proposal in 2003 to build a large leisure-related development called the YES! project, but two years into the seven-year plans of Oak Holdings was pulled due to lack of progress. It was then awarded to Visions Of China who proposed a Chinese leisure development on the site in 2011. The site falls on the border between South Yorkshire and Derbyshire.\n\n\nBrindley Court after James Brindley, builder of the Chesterfield Canal that navigates through Killamarsh and opened in 1777.\nNethergreen Court adjacent to the Nethergreen WMC and on the site of a tennis court.\nPowell Drive after the Rev'd Septimus Powell, rector circa 1914.\n\nBaker Drive after Councillor Thomas Edward Baker .\n\nKillamarsh has many sports teams, in senior and junior age groups. The Killamarsh Dynamoes Athletic Football Club (KDAFC) is one of the many junior footballing sides in the area. Killamarsh Khaos Skater Hockey Club (KSHC) is a roller hockey club with age groups spanning from U10 (U12, U14, etc.) up to senior level. Killamarsh Juniors Athletic Club Institute hosts senior and junior football on its grounds as well as the Killamarsh Juniors Cricket Club (KJCC), which has age groups from U11 to three senior sides and a Sunday side.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952835", "title": "The Great Outdoors (Australian TV series)", "text": "The Great Outdoors (Australian TV series)\n\nThe Great Outdoors was an Australian travel magazine series broadcast on the Seven Network. It began in 1993 and was broadcast regularly until 2009, with a short-lived revival in 2012.\n\nSimilar to its long time competitor \"Getaway\", on the Nine Network, the program featured a team of reporters who travelled around Australia and overseas, reporting on travel destinations, tourist attractions and accommodation.\n\nThe program premiered on 5 February 1993 in a 30-minute format and was broadcast on Tuesday evenings at . In 2002, the show was expanded to 60 minutes and moved to the Monday timeslot, where it had stayed until 2006.\n\nAfter suffering a gradual decline in ratings, the show moved to a new timeslot of Saturdays from the 2007 season. On 28 April 2007, the show celebrated 600 episodes, making it one of the longest-running programs on Australian television. However, after further decline in ratings, \"The Great Outdoors\" was cancelled in August 2009. The show did briefly return in October 2012 for a revamped series with 8 episodes airing on a Saturday evening at 5pm, with the possibility of a new season in 2013 which did not eventuate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952839", "title": "Team B", "text": "Team B\n\nTeam B was a competitive analysis exercise commissioned by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to analyze threats the Soviet Union posed to the security of the United States. It was created, in part, due to a 1974 publication by Albert Wohlstetter, who accused the CIA of chronically underestimating Soviet military capability. Years of National Intelligence Estimates (NIE) that were later demonstrated to be very wrong were another motivating factor.\n\nPresident Gerald Ford began the Team B project in May 1976, inviting a group of outside experts to evaluate classified intelligence on the Soviet Union. Team B, approved by then-Director of Central Intelligence George H. W. Bush, was composed of \"outside experts\" who attempted to counter the arguments of intelligence officials within the CIA. The intelligence community was in the process of putting together its own assessment at the same time.\nTeam B concluded that the NIE on the Soviet Union, compiled and produced annually by the CIA, chronically underestimated Soviet military power and misinterpreted Soviet strategic intentions. Its findings were leaked to the press shortly after Jimmy Carter's 1976 presidential election win in an attempt to appeal to staunch anticommunists in both parties and also not to appear partisan. The Team B reports became the intellectual foundation for the idea of \"the window of vulnerability\" and of the massive arms buildup that began toward the end of the Carter administration and accelerated under President Ronald Reagan.\n\nSome scholars and policy-makers, including Anne Hessing Cahn of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, later criticized the Team B project's findings. Many of these experts argued that the findings were grossly inaccurate.\n\nA major aspect supporting Team B's \"window of vulnerability\" sentiment was confirmed when Sergei Popov defected. His testimony led to the discovery in the 1990s that Premier Gorbachev and his predecessors had clandestinely overseen the development of ever-stronger nuclear weapons. They also actively spread disinformation about the nature of the \"Biopreparat\" program. This program breached the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) that was to eliminate all biological weapons. Instead, the Soviet Union had engineered, produced, and stockpiled tons of biological agents after signing the 1972 BWC, rationalizing this deceit to the 30,000 or so Soviet biologists, by claiming that the US was doing the same. Popov and others later denounced their Soviet superiors for creating this asymmetry of vulnerability and for misleading them.\n\nA number of conservative foreign policy intellectuals worried that the U.S. was sacrificing strategic position in the early 1970s by embracing détente. In response, Albert Wohlstetter, a professor at the University of Chicago, accused the CIA of systematically underestimating Soviet missile deployment in his 1974 \"Foreign Policy\" article, \"Is There a Strategic Arms Race?\" Wohlstetter concluded that the United States was allowing the Soviet Union to achieve military superiority by not closing a perceived missile gap. Many conservatives then began concerted attacks on the CIA's annual assessment of the Soviet threat.\n\nPresident Ford's Chief of Staff Donald Rumsfeld started making speeches arguing that the Soviets were ignoring Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's treaties and secretly building up their weapons so that they could eventually attack the United States. Rumsfeld used his influence to persuade Ford to set up an independent inquiry. Rumsfeld and Paul Wolfowitz wanted to create a much less charitable picture of the Soviet Union, its intentions, and its views about fighting and winning a nuclear war. The organization chosen by the Ford administration to challenge the CIA's analysis was the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB).\n\nIn 1975, PFIAB members asked CIA Director William Colby to approve a project that would result in comparative assessments of the Soviet threat. Colby refused, stating it was hard \"to envisage how an ad hoc independent group of analysts could prepare a more thorough, comprehensive assessment of Soviet strategic capabilities than could the intelligence community.\" Colby was removed from his position in the November 1975 Halloween Massacre; Ford has stated that he had made the decision alone, but the historiography of the \"Halloween Massacre\" appears to support the allegations that Rumsfeld had successfully lobbied for this.\n\nWhen George H. W. Bush became the Director of Central Intelligence in 1976, the PFIAB renewed its request for comparative threat assessments. Although his top analysts argued against such an undertaking, Bush checked with the White House, obtained a go-ahead, and by May 26 had signed off on the experiment. A team of 16 \"outside experts\" were to take an independent look at highly classified data used by the intelligence community to assess Soviet strategic forces in the yearly National Intelligence Estimates.\n\nThere were three teams: \nIt was the third team, chaired by Harvard University professor Richard Pipes, that ultimately received the most publicity. It is now referred to as Team B.\n\nPFIAB's Team B was headed by Richard Pipes, a Harvard historian and specialist in Russian history. Team B's members included Daniel O. Graham, Thomas Wolf, John Vogt, and William Van Cleave. Advisers included Foy D. Kohler, Seymour Weiss, Jasper Welch, Paul Wolfowitz, and Paul Nitze, who had been instrumental in the creation of the Committee on the Present Danger (CPD) in 1950. Its objectives were to raise awareness about the Soviets' alleged nuclear dominance and to pressure American leaders to close the missile gap.\n\nThe first section of the report dealt with the team's criticisms of the NIE's assessment of Soviet strategic objectives. It was the conclusion of the report, that the NIE was mostly wrong to view Soviet strategic actions as primarily a response to its history of being invaded and that the NIE ignored or misinterpreted evidence that most Soviet strategic actions were offensive rather than defensive in nature. The report also rejected the NIE's conclusion that as the Soviet Union grew more powerful and capable its foreign policy would also become less aggressive.\n\nThe second section of the report was primarily a criticism of the NIE's conclusions regarding Soviet strategic weapons programs, and how they are integrated into conventional Soviet forces and what impacts they have on Soviet strategic goals and plans. The report argued that the NIE underestimated the threat posed by Soviet strategic weapons programs, and that the development and deployment of several new weapons platforms and advancements in existing technologies would drastically alter the advantages that the United States and NATO had over the Warsaw Pact. The report cited these specific areas to reinforce its assessment:\n\n\nTeam B concluded that the Soviet Union did not adhere to the doctrine of mutual assured destruction, but rather believed it could win a nuclear war outright. Pipes—in his \"Commentary\" article—argued that CIA suffered from \"mirror-imaging\" (i.e., from assuming that the other side had to—and did—think and evaluate exactly the same way); Pipes further wrote that Team B showed Soviet thinking to be based on winning a nuclear war (i.e., not avoiding such war due to MAD, because, he wrote, the Soviets were building MIRV'd nuclear missiles of high yield and high accuracy—appropriate for attacking hardened missile silos, but not needed for such large and vulnerable 'hostage' sites as cities). This was shocking to many at the time, but Pipes argues that later, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, it was proven to be true.\n\nFareed Zakaria notes, however, that the specific conclusions of the report \n\nwere wildly off the mark. Describing the Soviet Union, in 1976, as having 'a large and expanding Gross National Product,' it predicted that it would modernize and expand its military at an awesome pace. For example, it predicted that the Backfire bomber 'probably will be produced in substantial numbers, with perhaps 500 aircraft off the line by early 1984.' In fact, the Soviets had 235 in 1984.\n\nAccording to Anne Hessing Cahn (Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, 1977–1980), Team B's analysis of weapons systems was later proven to be false. \"I would say that all of it was fantasy. ... if you go through most of Team B's specific allegations about weapons systems, and you just examine them one by one, they were all wrong.\" The CIA director at the time, George H. W. Bush, concluded that the Team B approach set \"in motion a process that lends itself to manipulation for purposes other than estimative accuracy.\" Brookings Institution Scholar Raymond Garthoff concurred, writing that in \"retrospect, and with the Team B report and records now largely declassified, it is possible to see that virtually all of Team B's criticisms... proved to be wrong. On several important specific points it wrongly criticized and 'corrected' the official estimates, always in the direction of enlarging the impression of danger and threat.\" A top CIA analyst called Team B \"a kangaroo court of outside critics all picked from one point of view.\"\n\nJoshua Rovner, Associate Professor at the U.S. Naval War College, argues that the Team B exercise made sense in theory because scrutiny from outside of the intelligence bureaucracy can pressure analysts to be forthright regarding their assumptions and methodology. Providing Team B the opportunity to create an alternative assessment could have shed light on any institutional baggage, group-think, and inefficiency. \"The competition turned ugly, however, when Team B turned its attention away from Moscow and leveled a blistering attack on the NIE process itself.\" It excoriated intelligence agencies for \"persistent flaws\" in past estimates and took it upon itself to \"determine what methodological misperceptions cause their most serious errors of judgment.\" The intelligence community was furious, Rovner maintains, because they believed that the exercise was motivated by an ideological desire to frame the Soviet Union as more belligerent than the intelligence community was leading on. The NIE that emerged from the debacle was strongly influenced by Team B's contributions. Rovner believes that Team B was a case of indirect politicization. \"The administration did not try to determine the membership of Team B nor the process of the exercise, but it gave de facto control over these pivotal issues to a group of outspoken critics of détente who argued publicly that the United States was seriously underestimating the Soviet threat.\"\n\nRichard K. Betts, the Arnold Saltzman Professor of War and Peace Studies at Columbia University argues that the underlying problem was confusion about what level of analysis was at issue—an implicit blurring together of Soviet political objectives and military strategy. \n\nPaul Warnke, an official at the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (ACDA) at the time of the Team B, wrote: \n\"Time Magazine\" editor Strobe Talbott stated in 1990 that: \nRichard Pipes has defended the project, and in 2003 said:\n\nAlso in 2003, Edward Jay Epstein offered that Team B had been a useful exercise in competitive analysis.\n\nDerek Leebaert, professor of government at Georgetown University, supported Team B in his 2002 book \"The Fifty Year Wound: How America's Cold War Victory Shapes Our World\". Although he agrees that \"Team B's alternative National Intelligence Estimate contained its own mistakes\", he claims that \"Russian sources now show that the Team B analysts were fundamentally correct on all the key issues.\" He further says that when Team B and the CIA debated their reports in 1976, the CIA \"conceded all essential points on Soviet nuclear war strategy to its harshest critics.\"\n\nIn his 2007 book \"The Fall of the House of Bush\", \"Vanity Fair\" contributing editor Craig Unger goes into detail about the formation and inaccuracy of Team B:\n\nJason Vest assessed the lasting implications of Team B:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952844", "title": "Alexander Fu Sheng", "text": "Alexander Fu Sheng\n\nAlexander Fu Sheng () (born Cheung Fu-sheng (); 20 October 1954 – 7 July 1983), also known as Fu Sheng was a Hong Kong martial arts film star in the 1970s.\n\nBorn Cheung Fu-sheng in British Hong Kong in 20 October 1954. He was the ninth child of a wealthy New Territories indigenous inhabitant businessman Cheung Yan-lung. His birth mother was Angela Liu Fung-wo. As a child, his family lived in Hawaii for a few years and there he began training in judo and karate.\n\nIn 1971, he enrolled at Shaw Brothers Southern Drama School and instantly drew the attention of director Chang Cheh. Cheh had Fu Sheng train with Lau Kar-leung for 6 months. Fu Sheng made his film debut as an extra in the 1972 film \"The Fourteen Amazons\". His first lead role was in Cheh's \"Police Force\". Some of his other films include \"Heroes Two\", \"Five Shaolin Masters\", \"Shaolin Temple\" and the \"Brave Archer\" series. He eventually made a total of 23 films with Cheh.\n\nIn 1976, he married singer and actress Jenny Tseng, who had appeared with him in the film \"New Shaolin Boxers\".\n\nHe suffered a series of injuries in 1978 and 1979. On the set of \"The Deadly Breaking Sword\" a wire suspending him snapped and he fell eight feet landing on his head. While working on \"Heroes Shed No Tears\", he shattered bones in his right leg.\n\nFu Sheng was supposed to star in \"Snake in the Eagle's Shadow\" but was refused by Run Run Shaw; head of the Shaw Brothers Studio. Jackie Chan was eventually cast in the role.\n\nOn 7 July 1983, Fu Sheng died as the result of an automobile accident. At the time, he was filming \"The Eight Diagram Pole Fighter\" in which he was to be the hero. The film was partially re-written and the remainder of the film was shot. In the finished film, Fu Sheng's character abruptly disappears and the focus was put on co-star Gordon Liu's character.\n\nHis funeral was organised by the Shaw Brothers committee. His remains were cremated and was interred at Fung Ying Seen Koon at Fanling town, part of Fanling–Sheung Shui New Town in Hong Kong.\n\nHe made his final film appearance the film \"Wits of the Brats\" which was also the only film he directed and was released almost a year after his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952851", "title": "American Empire: Blood and Iron", "text": "American Empire: Blood and Iron\n\nAmerican Empire: Blood and Iron is the first book of the \"American Empire\" trilogy of alternate history fiction novels by Harry Turtledove. It is a sequel to the novel \"How Few Remain\" and the \"Great War\" trilogy, and is part of the Southern Victory series.\n\n\"Blood and Iron\" covers events directly following the closing events of \"\". It takes the TL-191 Earth from 1917 to 1924.\n\nThe Great War is over, with the United States of America and its ally the German Empire having emerged the victors. After being beaten by the Confederate States of America in 1862 and in 1882, the United States has triumphed and avenged those humiliations which had so embittered it over the years. In the CSA, a former soldier named Jake Featherston joins the fascistic Freedom Party and uses it as his platform for beginning to take over the Confederate government and exact revenge on both the USA and the groups he perceives as having \"stabbed the CSA in the back\": Negro Southerners, the Southern aristocracy, and the Whig Party. He soon takes over as leader of the Party and unleashes angry veterans on his enemies.\n\nThe USA's conservative government, meanwhile, and Democratic incumbent President Theodore Roosevelt, who was running for a third term, lost the 1920 Presidential Election. Replacing Roosevelt and his Vice President Walter McKenna is the party of the masses: the Socialist ticket of President Upton Sinclair and Vice President Hosea Blackford (who marries Congresswoman Flora Hamburger). Ignoring the looming threat of the south, the Socialists focus on improving the lives of its citizenry — at the cost of trimming down its defenses and the military. Sinclair is inaugurated president of the United States on March 4, 1921 to much rejoicing from the Socialist party.\n\nLater in 1921, Jake Featherston runs for office against Wade Hampton V of the Whigs and Ainsworth Layne of the Radical Liberals. Featherston loses by a narrow margin to Hampton, but resolves to fight on. In June 1922, President Hampton is assassinated by Freedom party member Grady Calkins three months into his term. This leads to a massive decline in Freedom Party membership as members, friends and allies desert it amidst such a high-profile embarrassment. The assassination evokes rare sympathy from the United States, which ends the heavy burden of reparations payments placed on the CSA. This contributes greatly to the revival of the CSA's currency, which had suffered from crippling inflation since the conclusion of the Great War. Popular distrust in the Freedom Party and the newfound strength of Confederate paper money leads to support for the newly appointed Whig President Burton Mitchel. The United States' Socialists also have no better notion about what to do with the blacks in North America, and ignore the plight of those in the Confederacy.\n\nIn Canada, Governor-General George Custer rules the former Dominion with an iron-felt glove, surviving several assassination attempts by Manitoban farmer Arthur McGregor. Custer kills McGregor with a bomb in the farmer's final attempt as he is parading through Rosenfeld, Manitoba. At this point, the war hero is forced to retire by the new Socialist administration. Sinclair aims to return the U.S. to the days of peace, hoping that by treating its neighbors with respect there will never be another war. He is popular enough to win re-election in 1924 — the same year the Freedom Party begins to involve its stalwarts in the Mexican Civil War (compare to the real-world Spanish Civil War of 1936-39), an action where the U.S. supported the Republican rebels, but its meager support was limited, compared to the supplies, weapons, and barrels (tanks) that the Confederacy gives to Mexican Emperor Maximilian III.\n\nPeter Canon in his review for \"Publishers Weekly\" said that \"watching historical processes in action is the novel's real attraction. Knowing what happened in our timeline, readers will want to imagine the results of different choices.\" Don D'Ammassa writing for the \"Science Fiction Chronicle\" found this book more interesting than the last three because \"Turtledove spends more time with his characters and with the motives behind the various developments rather than dwelling on the inevitable military encounters.\"\n"}
{"id": "1952852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952852", "title": "Sandra Tsing Loh", "text": "Sandra Tsing Loh\n\nSandra Tsing Loh (, born February 11, 1962) is an American writer, actress, radio personality, and former professor of art at the University of California, Irvine.\n\nLoh is the younger daughter of a Chinese father and a German mother. She was raised in Malibu, Southern California, and after attending Malibu Park Junior High School was bused South to Santa Monica High School, where she was active in the computer-and-engineering-related \"Olive Starlight Orchestra\" and founded the performance-arts group and civic volunteer organization \"Young Bureaucrats, Of Course (YBOC)\". She also played violin in the Samohi school orchestra.\n\nLoh graduated from Caltech with a BS in Physics; she returned in 2005 to deliver its commencement speech. She is also a graduate of the Master of Professional Writing Program at the University of Southern California. Her early career as a performance artist included a piano concert on a freeway overpass in Downtown Los Angeles, and one in which she distributed hundreds of one-dollar-bills. She went on to perform a number of well-received autobiographical one-woman shows, in which she developed a particular form of observational humor.\n\nA writer for the publication \"Asian American Playwrights\" called Loh \"a multifaceted artist'\". Her piano recordings of her original compositions that were made during the late 1980s were labeled \"a cross between Art Tatum and Francis Poulenc\". A writer for the \"New York Times\" called Loh \"perpetual darling of the ever-beleaguered Los Angeles intelligentsia and constant candidate for that publishers' holy grail, the female David Sedaris\".\nLoh gained some national notoriety when KCRW canceled her weekly radio commentary, \"The Loh Life\", after an engineer neglected to bleep her on-air utterance of the word \"fuck\" during a segment on knitting that aired on 22 February 2004. \"The Loh Life\" was soon after picked up by the other Los Angeles NPR affiliate, KPCC. She is also the host of \"The Loh Down on Science,\" a daily science oriented radio show, and was a regular commentator on NPR's \"Morning Edition\", PRI's \"This American Life\", American Public Media's \"Marketplace\", and other public radio programs. She has some versatility as a radio personality in that many of her programs, some of which air at the same time, are aimed at a different radio audience. As an example, Loh would use humor to publicize a recent but serious scientific discovery on \"The Loh Down on Science\" series while she would make a humorous comment on a current business topic on her segment on \"Marketplace\".\n\nLoh is the author of several books, including the semi-autobiographical \"A Year in Van Nuys\". She has also written reviews of books about parenting, feminism, and several other topics for \"The Atlantic\", where she is a regular contributor. Loh appeared in yet another one-woman show, \"Mother on Fire,\" at the 24th Street Theatre in Los Angeles between October 2005 and March 2006. She made a brief cameo appearance in the 2006 film \"Unaccompanied Minors\". She is featured in the book \"Part Asian, 100% Hapa\" by artist Kip Fulbeck.\n\nIn reviewing Loh's 2008 book \"Mother on Fire\" for the \"New York Times Sunday Book Review\", Pamela Paul wrote that she \"was in awe of [Loh's] quippy brilliance\" and that Loh's writing ability \"is no less than a feat of genius\".\nLoh wrote about her divorce in a 2009 article for \"The Atlantic\", where she has been a contributing writer for several years, focusing mostly on parenting and family issues. She explained at the time that, as a parent and full-time writer, \"I did not have the strength to 'work on' falling in love again in our marriage.\" She also admitted to cheating on her husband.\n\nLoh's essay, \"The Bitch Is Back,\" which first appeared in \"The Atlantic\", was selected a Best American Essay for the 2012 edition of the Best American Essays series.\n\nIn 2014, Loh published \"The Madwoman in the Volvo: My Year of Raging Hormones,\" and was profiled in \"The New York Times\". Loh adapted \"The Madwoman in the Volvo\" into a play for South Coast Repertory Theater.\n\nShe was the invited commencement speaker at Caltech in 2005, at UC Irvine in 2014. and the University of Michigan–Flint in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952854", "title": "PCI-SIG", "text": "PCI-SIG\n\nThe PCI-SIG or Peripheral Component Interconnect Special Interest Group is an electronics industry consortium responsible for specifying the Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), PCI-X, and PCI Express (PCIe) computer buses. It is based in Beaverton, Oregon. The PCI-SIG is distinct from the similarly named and adjacently-focused PCI Industrial Computer Manufacturers Group.\n\nThe PCI Special Interest Group was formed in 1992, initially as a \"compliance program\" to help computer manufacturers implement the Intel specification. The organization became a nonprofit corporation, officially named \"PCI-SIG\" in the year 2000.\n\nThe PCI-SIG has more than 800 member companies that develop differentiated, interoperable products based on its specifications. It has produced the PCI, PCI-X and PCI Express specifications.\n\nThe board of directors of the PCI-SIG has representatives from: Agilent, AMD, Dell, HP, Intel, Synopsys, NVIDIA, and Qualcomm. The chairman and president of the PCI-SIG is Al Yanes, a \"Distinguished Engineer\" from IBM. The executive director of the PCI-SIG is Reen Presnell, president of VTM Group.\n\nPCI-SIG specifications are available to members of the organization as free downloads. \nNon-members can purchase hard-copy specifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952861", "title": "Shock hardening", "text": "Shock hardening\n\nShock hardening is a process used to strengthen metals and alloys, wherein a shock wave produces atomic-scale defects in the material's crystalline structure. As in cold work, these defects interfere with the normal processes by which metallic materials yield (plasticity), making materials stiffer, but more brittle. When compared to traditional cold work, such an extremely rapid process results in a different class of defect, producing a much harder material for a given change in shape. If the shock wave applies too great a force for too long, however, the rarefaction front that follows it can form voids in the material due to hydrostatic tension, weakening the material and often causing it to spall. Since voids nucleate at large defects, such as oxide inclusions and grain boundaries, high-purity samples with a large grain size (especially single crystals) are able to withstand greater shock without spalling, and can therefore be made much harder.\n\nShock hardening has been observed in many contexts:\n\nExplosive forging uses the detonation of a high explosive charge to create a shockwave. This effect is used to harden rail track cast components and, coupled with the Misznay-Schardin effect, in the operation of explosively forged penetrators. Greater hardening can be achieved by using a lower quantity of an explosive with greater brisance, so that the force applied is greater but the material spends less time in hydrostatic tension.\n\nLaser shock, similar to inertial confinement fusion, uses the ablation plume caused by a laser pulse to apply force to the laser's target. The rebound from the expelled matter can create very high pressures, and the pulse length of lasers is often quite short, meaning that good hardening can be achieved with little risk of spallation. Surface effects can also be achieved by laser treatment, including amorphization.\n\nLight-gas guns have been used to study shock hardening. Although too labor-intensive for widespread industrial application, they do provide a versatile research testbed. They allow precise control of both magnitude and profile of the shock wave through adjustments to the projectile's muzzle velocity and density profile, respectively. Studies of various projectile types have been crucial in overturning a prior theory that spallation occurs at a threshold of pressure, independent of time. Instead, experiments show longer-lasting shocks of a given magnitude produce more material damage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952865", "title": "HyperTransport Consortium", "text": "HyperTransport Consortium\n\nThe HyperTransport Consortium is an industry consortium responsible for specifying and promoting the computer bus technology called HyperTransport. \n\nThe Technical Working Group along with several Task Forces manage the HyperTransport specification and drive new developments. A Marketing Working Group promotes the use of the technology and the consortium.\n\nIt was founded in 2001 by Advanced Micro Devices, Alliance Semiconductor, Apple Computer, Broadcom Corporation, Cisco Systems, NVIDIA, PMC-Sierra, Sun Microsystems, and Transmeta. As of 2009 it has over 50 members.\n\nAs of 2009, Mike Uhler of AMD is the President of the Consortium, Mario Cavalli is the General Manager, Brian Holden of PMC-Sierra is both the Vice President and the Chair of the Technical Working Group, Deepika Sarai is the Treasurer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952868", "title": "Dzheyrakhsky District", "text": "Dzheyrakhsky District\n\nDzheyrakhsky District (; ) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the four in the Republic of Ingushetia, Russia. It is located in the south of the republic. The area of the district is . Its administrative center is the rural locality (a \"selo\") of Dzheyrakh. As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 2,638, with the population of Dzheyrakh accounting for 57.4% of that number.\n\nThe district was established in October 1993.\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, Dzheyrakhsky District is one of the four in the Republic of Ingushetia and has administrative jurisdiction over all of its eighty-five rural localities. As a municipal division, the district is incorporated as Dzheyrakhsky Municipal District. Its eighty-five rural localities are incorporated into five rural settlements within the municipal district. The \"selo\" of Dzheyrakh serves as the administrative center of both the administrative and municipal district.\n\nThe Dzheyrakh-Assin historical and architectural museum and nature reserve, including Tkhaba-Yerdy Church, is located in the district.\n"}
{"id": "1952879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952879", "title": "Hyperlocal", "text": "Hyperlocal\n\nHyperlocal is information oriented around a well-defined community with its primary focus directed toward the concerns of the population in that community. The term can be used as a noun in isolation or as a modifier of some other term (e.g. news). When used in isolation it refers to the emergent ecology of data (including textual content), aggregators, publication mechanism and user interactions and behaviors which centre on a resident of a location and the business of being a resident. More recently, the term hyperlocal has become synonymous with the combined use of applications on mobile devices and GPS technology. Use of the term originated in 1991, in reference to local television news content.\n\nA working definition of hyperlocal was published in a 2012 Nesta report, describing it as \"online news or content services pertaining to a town, village, single postcode or other small, geographically defined community\".\n\nHyperlocal content has two major dimensions: geography and time. The dimensions are measures of the relevance or value perceived by the content consumer in time and space. The higher the content scores on these dimensions the more relevant the content becomes to the individual and the less it becomes to the masses. Hyperlocal content is targeted at or consumed by people or entities that are located within a well defined area, generally on the scale of a street, neighborhood, community or city. Hyperlocal content must also be relevant in time. The nature of the evolution of hyperlocal content follows these two dimensions. By combining the two dimensions we can identify types of hyperlocal content throughout history. In the distant past, hyperlocal content was low on the geographic dimension, meaning that the content met only broad needs of larger populations across bigger areas, and also low on the time dimension: relevance was perceived over long timescales. Examples include almanacs, town criers and written postings or other similar forms of infrequent content delivery mechanisms. More recent hyperlocal content scores higher on the geographic and time dimensions because it delivers more diverse content that targets geographic areas and remains relevant at much smaller time scales such as days and weeks not months and years. Recent examples of hyperlocal delivery mechanisms include neighborhood focused news sources, neighborhood voucher packs and neighborhood websites. More recently, hyperlocal content has evolved to include GPS enabled internet integrated mobile applications which score highly on both the geographic and the time dimensions. They are capable of delivering content that is relevant not just in a community but relevant right down to the individual within a geographic area that can be measured in meters and blocks not towns and neighborhoods. They are also capable of delivering content relevant at very short timescales such as seconds or minutes not just days or weeks.\n\nHyperlocal websites can focus on very specialized topics—i.e., stories and issues of interest only to people in a very limited area. So, for example, school board meetings, restaurant, community group meeting, and garage sales can receive prominent coverage. For example, Forumhome.org focuses on issues likely of interest only to the few thousand residents of the small New Hampshire towns it serves. Another example is Rheebo, a hyperlocal website that build communities around things people are passionate about. Hyperlocal sites may also focus on particular issues. For example, NewWest.net focus on issues relating to balancing economic development and environmental concerns in quickly growing towns in the Rocky Mountain West such as Boulder, Colorado, and Bozeman, Montana (see Exhibit 4.3). \"Our core mission is to serve the Rockies with innovative, particularly journalism and to promote conversation that help us understand and make the most of the dramatic changes sweeping our region,\" the site notes. Much of the content on NewWest.net comes from freelancers and citizen contributors.\n\nIn recent years hyperlocal websites have been created to enable the concepts of the Sharing economy or Collaborative consumption. These websites allow peer communities to share human or physical assets. Examples include Yelp, Airbnb, TaskRabbit, eBay, Craigslist and Krrb. Many of the best-known hyperlocal news sites have sprung up independently, with the battle cry \"local doesn't scale,\" but larger media companies have been interested in the concept as well. Formerly a much-vaunted subsidiary of AOL, Patch Media runs a large US based hyperlocal network of sites. According to a March 2015 article in \"CIO\" magazine, \"Legions of underserved local advertisers were supposed to flock to Patch sites, leaving national publishers in the collective dust. . . . Of course, this wasn't how it played out. Scores of Patch sites were left inactive as the a company reexamined its strategy. Sure, hyperlocal content sounded great -- everyone wants to know what's happening around them -- but the flawed business model couldn't sustain it. Not enough big advertisers were targeting local markets.\"\n\nAnother model for a national company running hyperlocal sites is franchising, such as was being done by 2010 startup Main Street Connect.\n\nThe Washington Post Company also made a commitment to developing hyperlocal sites. Rob Curley, who has been called the \"hyperlocal guru\" for his previous work in Lawrence, Kansas, and Naples, Florida, joined washingtonpost.com in part to develop hyperlocal sites for that paper. The first Curley-led washingtonpost.com effort focused on Loudoun County, a fast-growing suburb in Northern Virginia. The site loudounextra.washingtonpost.com underwent a branding change to loudenextra.com, but that now redirects to a section of the parent paper, www.washingtonpost.com.\n\nSome hyperlocal sites included detailed searchable community events calendars and restaurant information, a complete listing of churches (including 360-degree inside views and recordings of sermons) and police blotter information updated every day. \"Knocked down mailboxes will be newsworthy\", Curley promised. \"What we're doing is taking the local and treating it like it's the superstar\". Others at washingtonpost.com have high hopes for the hyperlocal sites. \"It's a big effort\", says managing editor Jim Brady. \"When you take our daily traffic and combine it with Rob Curley's expertise—if it can't work here, it can't work anywhere\".\n\nSome journalists, not surprisingly, are skeptical of the hyperlocal movement's focus on the often mundane information of daily life. Hyperlocal \"has the potential to trivialize a media organization's brand and further saturate news sites with myopic local (and frequently unedited) content, perhaps at the expense of foreign and national reporting\", said an article in the \"American Journalism Review\". Still, media companies are searching for new ways to reach audiences with content that interest them, and hyperlocal definitely holds that potential. BBC's Van Klaveren says journalistic organizations need to embrace both the so-called \"big-J\" journalism and the hyperlocal: \"We need to move beyond news to information\".\n\nSocial networking sites originally did not host hyperlocal content but were the largest distributors of such content hosted on other sites. This is because of the contemporary nature of sharing and the predominantly local composition of user's network in which content is shared. This type of distribution is secondary (done by users) in contrast to the primary distribution done by the content hosting site itself (e.g. Craigslist). In recent years there has been a shift in user behavior to use Social Networking sites for both creating as well as sharing hyperlocal content. Prime examples exist in the phenomenon that Whatsapp is being increasingly used for community organization and eCommerce despite having no feature support for these activities. Facebook also hosts 60x more event than eVite (the leading site which specializes in events only). This user behavior suggests that an effective hyperlocal distribution is a more important consideration for users than the superior quality of the content itself. Since 2010, evidence shows that Social Networking sites have been mobilizing to aid and leverage this user behavior. Google acquired Zagat in 2011. Since 2012 Facebook has been adding new features to create varied hyperlocal content e.g. Blogs, Events. In early 2015 Facebook announced the feature to mark a post as sold and later in 2015 it introduced a C2C payment system. Many believe these steps as precursors to an imminent launch of Facebook Classifieds and Marketplace, most likely rolled into one.\n\nWhile many traditional print publications are shutting down or publish exclusively online, local newspapers in small towns can still make a profit. National companies that mail full-color glossy hyperlocal magazines to targeted neighborhoods include N2 Publishing and Best Version Media. Comparing themselves to Facebook, they publish mostly user-generated content written by local residents and homeowners associations.\n\nThe most recent incarnation of hyperlocal content grew out the combination of satellite based location services and advanced wireless data built into mobile devices. Satellite-based location services allow a high degree of physical location precision. When combined with a mobile device's access to the vast set of Internet data and services, hyperlocal takes on new dimensions. Realtime internet awareness of an individual's precise location in time allows people and entities to consume or deliver hyperlocal content that is relevant to specific individuals at very small time scales.\n\nHyperlocal GPS mobile apps, in particular, change the nature of human interaction with their environment by providing a much faster, richer and relevant source of information. The mobile Internet data connection available to hyperlocal apps allows GPS location data to be fused with Internet data to improve the decision process of the user. Examples of these types of hyperlocal content providers are Google Maps, Foursquare and LaunchLawyer. In contrast to printed maps, the mobile Google Maps app allows users to identify places and interests around their current GPS location. In contrast to rating services or directories, the mobile Foursquare app uses GPS location data to enable users to make more informed choices and receive better deals. In contrast to printed or online lawyer directories, the GPS-enabled LaunchLawyer mobile app combines GPS awareness with the ability to almost instantly get a lawyer. In each case the combination of mobile device, GPS and the Internet changed the manner in which consumption of information, services or goods took place.\n\nThere are other types of data which have local or hyperlocal relevance, or be of interest to residents - e.g. a government statistic on crime rates in one's neighborhood. Such data, while relevant to residents are of a qualitatively different type.\n\nFor large corporations successfully targeting local populations can involve either shedding or leveraging corporate identity:\n\nWhile there are various ways in which hyperlocal content is being created and published, blogs have become a key part of the hyperlocal ecology. Their basic roles evident in the space include individual blogs, blog networks, and aggregators.\n\nSome others initiatives are made for this purpose in the USA by the company Marchex, and in FRANCE by the network ProXiti. They are developing networks of thousands hyperlocal news sites like www.10282.net (Manhattan 212) or www.75016.info (paris 16eme arrondissement).\n\nIn response to the burgeoning number of hyperlocal news sites in New Jersey, The Citizens Campaign founded the Hyperlocal News Association (HNA). The HNA works to foster and encourage growth of new hyperlocal sites across the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952885", "title": "Anthony D. Romero", "text": "Anthony D. Romero\n\nAnthony D. Romero is the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union. He assumed the position in 2001 as the first Latino and openly gay man to do so.\n\nRomero was born in New York City on July 9, 1965, to Puerto Rican parents Demetrio and Coralie Romero. Romero spent the initial years of his childhood growing up in a public housing project in the Bronx. He was the oldest of his siblings. His father worked as a houseman at a large Manhattan hotel and was repeatedly turned down for a more financially lucrative job as a banquet waiter, being told that it was because he did not speak English well enough. Demetrio Romero later decided to seek assistance from the attorney of the labor union he belonged to, hoping to file a grievance against his employer. He won the case, which allowed for him to seek out better paying work and later allowed for the family to improve their standard of living. The family subsequently moved to suburban New Jersey, where Anthony graduated high school.\n\nRomero was the first member of his family to graduate from high school. He received his B.A. degree from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs in 1987, having written a senior thesis titled \"Colombian Migration and Political Participation in the United States\". He later received a J.D. from Stanford University Law School in 1990. He is a member of the New York bar. He was a Dinkelspiel Scholar at Stanford University, a Cane Scholar at Princeton, and a National Hispanic Scholar at both institutions.\n\nRomero started his career at the Rockefeller Foundation, notably leading a foundation review that helped determine future directions in civil rights advocacy. In 1992, Romero began working for the Ford Foundation, initially serving as a program officer in the Civil Rights and Social Justice Program. After less than four years in that position, he was promoted to the position of director, making him one of the youngest directors in the foundation's history. Prior to his departure, he served as the Director of Human Rights and International Cooperation, transforming the program into the foundation's largest. As director, he managed and facilitated roughly $90 million in grants to civil rights, human rights, and peace projects. Notably, he also launched progressive initiatives in affirmative action, voting rights and redistricting, immigrants' rights, women's rights, reproductive freedom, and LGBT rights.\n\nAnthony Romero became executive director in September 2001, just before the September 11, 2001 attacks. He is the first openly gay man and the first Hispanic director of the civil liberties institution.\n\nAfter the September 11th attacks, Romero launched a national campaign called \"Keep America Safe and Free\" to protect American civil liberties and basic freedoms during a time of crisis in the United States. The campaign successfully targeted the Patriot Act, achieving a number of court victories, and uncovered hundreds of thousands of documents detailing the illegal torture and abuse of detainees in U.S. custody in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Guantanamo. As a result of their successful court challenge to elements of the Patriot Act, the ACLU also forced the FBI to open files it had on antiwar groups, including the ACLU itself. Further, under Romero's leadership, the ACLU became the first organization to successfully file a legal challenge to the Bush administration's illegal National Security Agency (NSA) spying program. Shortly thereafter, Romero helped to establish the John Adams Project, in collaboration with the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, to assist the under-resourced military defense lawyers in the Guantanamo military commissions. Referring to the August 17, 2006, federal court declaration that the Terrorist Surveillance Program was unconstitutional, Romero called the court's opinion \"another nail in the coffin in the Bush administration's legal strategy in the War on Terror\". Discussing the Bush administration, Romero said that the \"eight years of President Bush will go down in history as one of the darkest moments in America's commitment to human rights\".\n\nAmidst 9/11 related concerns, ACLU membership, which had hovered around 300,000 for decades, increased to 573,000 following the terror attacks and subsequent legislation established during the Bush administration. Total donations to the ACLU doubled to more than twice the 2001 budget, increasing to about $28 million per year in the years following. Upon Romero's arrival, he increased the number of ACLU staff from 186 to 379 in 2001 alone. He also raised the salaries of staff members to be more in line with industry standards, in some cases increasing salaries by as much as 86%. In each of the ACLU's national affiliate offices, Romero hired and placed at least one staff attorney.\n\nThe ACLU's massive growth under Romero's leadership allowed for the organization to expand its activities with regard to racial justice, religious freedom, privacy rights, reproductive freedom, and LGBT rights. In recent years, this has enabled the organization to create a new Human Rights program as well as a division dedicated to privacy issues arising from new surveillance technology, including data mining and the collection of genetic data.\n\nIn 2007, Romero and the ACLU denounced The Pentagon for monitoring 186 antiwar protests and keeping files on pacifist groups, from Veterans for Peace to the Catholic Worker Movement.\n\nIn 2013, Romero, on behalf of the ACLU organization, praised Edward Snowden for his whistleblowing action against the NSA.\n\nIn 2016, Romero co-signed a letter to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon calling for a more humane drug policy, along with people like Eve Ensler, Norman Lear, and Ernesto Zedillo.\n\nDuring the course of his time with the ACLU, Romero has come under fire by other leaders within the organization, including board members and his predecessor, Ira Glasser. Their complaints have included assertions of his dishonesty and lack of integrity in the context of the workplace and with regard to the ACLU's work. His critics within the ACLU have launched websites such as savetheaclu.org and voicesfortheaclu.org, reporting that he \"has betrayed fundamental ACLU values\".\n\nIn 2002, Romero signed a consent decree the New York Attorney General at the time, Elliot Spitzer, to settle a privacy breach that had been discovered on the ACLU website. Although an outside company was responsible for the breach, Spitzer's office had demanded $10,000 from the ACLU for the error, which would later be reimbursed by the outside company directly responsible. However, as designated in the decree, Romero was required to distribute the decree itself to the national ACLU board within 30 days. Instead, he waited 6 months to do so, when he reportedly \"offered vague and inconsistent explanations of the circumstances surrounding the negotiation, execution, and eventual distribution of the agreement\".\n\nIn 2004, Romero received criticism for signing two agreements without the consent or approval of the larger ACLU leadership council. Most notable of the two was his signing of the Combined Federal Campaign, a government program that allows federal employees to allocate funds to charities and nonprofits that do not \"knowingly employ\" people found on federal and international antiterrorism watch lists. Fellow leadership did not approve of this partnership and were forced to withdraw from the program, a move that cost the organization roughly $500,000.\n\nOn June 26, 2011, Romero was charged with a DWI after being seen \"careening into oncoming traffic\" by police. His arrest was not included in any weekly press releases of DWI charges that week and was not made public until it was published in the \"New York Post\" on August 10, nearly two months later. Police claim to have inadvertently omitted Romero's arrest, however, critics suggested that the omission was no accident.\n\n\nIn 2005, he was named one of \"Time Magazine\"'s 25 Most Influential Hispanics.\n\nIn 2009, Romero received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement\n\nHe was featured in the HBO documentary \"The Latino List\". \n\nRomero is the recipient of the 2020 Woodrow Wilson Award from Princeton University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952888", "title": "KRCA", "text": "KRCA\n\nKRCA, virtual channel 62 (VHF digital channel 7), is an Estrella TV owned-and-operated television station serving Los Angeles, California, United States that is licensed to Riverside. It is the flagship television property of Burbank-based Estrella Media. The station's studios are located on North Victory Drive (near Interstate 5) in Burbank, and its transmitter is located atop Mount Wilson.\n\nThe station signed on March 20, 1989 as KSLD on UHF channel 62, displacing a low-power translator of San Bernardino-based PBS member station KVCR-TV (channel 24). The station was owned by Sunland Broadcasting; it was the first new Southern California TV station since channel 46 had returned in 1984. Channel 62 was intended to be the third Spanish-language TV outlet in the Southland, but an inability to secure enough programming prompted the station to emerge instead with home shopping programming from Home Shopping Network. The reason that KSLD-TV could not secure the programming was the collapse of Transvision, a proposed network of which channel 62 would have been the Los Angeles affiliate; the network opted to delay its launch.\n\nIn 1990, Sunland sold KSLD to Fouce Amusement Enterprises, for $3.575 million. Fouce changed the call letters to KRCA and began broadcasting Asian-language programming, as well as fare in Armenian and Persian.\nIn 1997, KRCA was sold for $60 million to Liberman Broadcasting (which was renamed Estrella Media in February 2020, following a corporate reorganization of the company under private equity firm HPS Investment Partners, LLC). Liberman, which owned several Spanish-language radio stations in southern California, converted KRCA into a Spanish-language independent station.\n\nIn May 2005, KRCA was the subject of controversy due to billboards advertising its local newscasts, in which the place name \"Los Angeles, CA\" had the \"CA\" postal abbreviation crossed out, replaced with the word \"MEXICO\" in bold red and a picture of the El Ángel victory column on the Paseo de la Reforma superimposed onto a picture of the Los Angeles skyline. The billboard was deemed provocative by some, and protests erupted outside Liberman Broadcasting studios. California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger spoke on the popular \"John and Ken\" radio talk show on KFI requesting that the Libermans remove the signs. After negotiations between the station and Clear Channel Outdoor (a company that shared common ownership with KFI at the time), the owner of the billboards, the messages were replaced with a more generic advertisement.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKRCA formerly rebroadcast its San Diego sister station KSDX-LP on digital subchannel 62.2. In September 2009, 62.2 began to transmit Mandarin-language programming for the first time since KRCA last presented Chinese-language television in 2000. It is presented by City of Industry-based Hantian TV (HTTV). In June 2010, KRCA added a third subchannel on 62.3 (since moved to 62.4), carrying programming from Inmigrante TV, a Spanish-language special interest channel featuring political news and commentary aimed at immigrant viewers.\n\nBoth the analog and pre-transition allocations for KRCA were outside the core spectrum (channels 2-51) permitted for broadcasting use after the transition; as a result, the station was required to find an in-core channel from which to operate its digital signal post-transition. It originally elected to operate on UHF channel 45 after 2009, but, anticipating difficulty getting coordination from Mexico to use that channel, it instead requested and was granted the use of UHF channel 35.\n\nKRCA shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 62, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 68 to channel 35 (formerly the pre-transition digital signal of KMEX-DT), using PSIP to display KRCA's virtual channel as 62 on digital television receivers, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\nKRCA presently broadcasts 7½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 1½ hours each weekday); the station does not air any newscasts on weekends.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952923", "title": "Capstan (nautical)", "text": "Capstan (nautical)\n\nA capstan is a vertical-axled rotating machine developed for use on sailing ships to multiply the pulling force of seamen when hauling ropes, cables, and hawsers. The principle is similar to that of the windlass, which has a horizontal axle.\n\nThe word, connected with the Old French \"capestan\" or \"cabestan(t)\", from Old Provençal \"cabestan\", from \"capestre\" \"pulley cord,\" from Latin \"capistrum\", -a halter, from \"capere\", to take hold of, seems to have come into English (14th century) from Portuguese or Spanish shipmen at the time of the Crusades. Both device and word are considered Spanish inventions.\n\nIn its earliest form, the capstan consisted of a timber mounted vertically through a vessel's structure which was free to rotate. Levers, known as bars, were inserted through holes at the top of the timber and used to turn the capstan. A rope wrapped several turns around the drum was thus hauled upon. A rudimentary ratchet was provided to hold the tension. The ropes were always wound in a clockwise direction (seen from above).\n\nCapstans evolved to consist of a wooden drum or barrel mounted on an iron axle. Two barrels on a common axle were used frequently to allow men on two decks to apply force to the bars. Later capstans were made entirely of iron, with gearing in the head providing a mechanical advantage when the bars were pushed counterclockwise. One form of capstan was connected by a shaft and gears to an anchor windlass on the deck below. On riverine vessels, the capstan was sometimes cranked by steam power.\n\nAs ships and their anchors grew in size, the anchor cable or chain would be too big to go around the capstan. Also, a wet cable or chain would be difficult to manage. A messenger would then be used as an intermediate device. This was a continuous loop of cable or chain which would go around the capstan. The main anchor cable or chain would then be attached to the messenger for hauling using some temporary connection such as ropes called nippers. These would be attached and detached as the anchor was weighed and, by doing this adroitly, a continuous hoist could be done, without any need for stopping or surging.\n\nModern capstans are powered electrically, hydraulically, pneumatically, or via an internal combustion engine. Typically, a gearbox is used which trades reduced speed, relative to the , for increased torque.\n\nIn yachting terminology, a winch functions on the same principle as a capstan. However, in industrial applications, the term \"winch\" generally implies a machine which stores the rope on a drum.\n\nHydraulically powered capstans were sometimes used in railway goods yards for shunting, or shifting railcars short distances. One example was Broad Street goods station in London. The yard was on a deck above some warehouses, and the deck was not strong enough to carry a locomotive, so ropes and capstans were used instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952925", "title": "AFL Rising Star", "text": "AFL Rising Star\n\nThe AFL Rising Star is an Australian rules football award presented annually to the player adjudged the best young player in the Australian Football League (AFL) for the year. It was first presented in the 1993 season, and was won by Nathan Buckley, playing for the Brisbane Bears. The recipient of the AFL Rising Star has been awarded the Ron Evans Medal since 2007, named in honour of the former AFL Commission chairman following his death that year.\n\nThe award was sponsored by Norwich Union Australia from its inception in 1993 until 2000. The AFL then secured a six-year sponsorship deal with Ansett Australia in 2001, that included the Rising Star award; however, this agreement only lasted the one season following the collapse of Ansett in September 2001. National Australia Bank (NAB) has sponsored the award since 2002. An equivalent award has existed in the AFL Women's league since its inception in 2017.\n\nThe club with the most AFL Rising Star awards is Sydney Swans, with three awards won by players representing the team. Greater Western Sydney Giants' eight nominations in the 2012 season is the most any club has achieved in a season. The most recent recipient of the award is Carlton's Sam Walsh, winning in 2019.\n\nA player is nominated for the award each round during the AFL season by a panel of experts; to be eligible for nomination, the player must be aged 20 or under on 1 January that year, and have played ten or fewer AFL games as of the start of the season. A player can only be nominated once per season; if a player is suspended during the season, he may be nominated, but will not be eligible to win the award. At the completion of the regular season, each member of the voting panel independently awards five votes, four votes, three votes, two votes and one vote to the nominated players they regard as the best to fifth-best during the season; the player with the highest total of votes wins the medal. \n\nAs the number of voting members varies between seasons, the maximum number of votes a player can poll is not consistent. There have been only three winners who have accumulated the maximum votes in their season: Jared Rivers (2004), Daniel Rich (2009), and Dan Hannebery (2010).\n\nIt is possible for a player to be nominated in multiple seasons, as long as he still satisfies the age and experience criteria in each year. Eleven players have been nominated twice for a Rising Star award:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952932", "title": "Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy", "text": "Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy\n\nJak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy is a 2001 open world platform video game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the Sony PlayStation 2 on December 3, 2001, as the first game of the \"Jak and Daxter\" series.\n\nThe game follows protagonist Jak as he tries to help his friend Daxter after Daxter is transformed into an \"ottsel\", a fictional hybrid of an otter and a weasel. With the help of Samos the Sage, the pair learn that they must save their world from Gol and Maia Acheron, who plan to flood it with \"dark eco\", a mysterious substance. The game offers a large range of missions and minigames that provide a variety of gameplay experiences, as well as puzzles and platform elements that the player must complete to proceed.\n\nDevelopment began in January 1999. \"Jak and Daxter\" received critical acclaim upon release; most critics praised the game's variety. Many critics agreed that the game had some of the best-looking graphics at the time of its release. By 2002, the game had sold a total of over 1 million copies worldwide, and by 2007, it had sold 2 million in the United States.\n\nIn 2012, it was one of the remastered ports in the \"Jak and Daxter Collection\" for the PlayStation 3, and for the PlayStation Vita in 2013. It was released as a \"PS2 Classic\" for PlayStation 4 on August 22, 2017, the same day as the release of \"\".\n\n\"Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy\" is a platformer in which the objective is to gather items to progress through the levels. The player controls Jak, who has access to abilities such as double jumping, a rapid spinning kick, and glide punching. Injuries are accounted for by way of a life meter, which decreases whenever Jak is hit by enemies, falls from long distances, or makes contact with hazardous surfaces.\n\n\"The Precursor Legacy\" offers several collectibles for the player to gather. The main objects are power cells, which are used to energize machinery to reach new levels. Power cells can be earned in many ways, such as fighting enemies, performing tasks for other characters, completing platforming challenges, and paying for them via Precursor orbs. Precursor orbs are egg-shaped collectables found scattered throughout the world, some in plain sight, and some hidden. Another collectible, scout flies, appear on every level. Collecting all seven scout flies in a level rewards the player with a power cell.\n\nA large part of the gameplay revolves around eco, a type of colored energy that comes in six different forms. The player is able to utilize eco powers by either collecting small amounts of glowing eco particles or fully charging through eco vents. Green eco, the most common of the six types of eco, restores health. Blue eco increases Jak's speed; breaks nearby boxes (except strong boxes); attracts Precursor orbs, scout flies, and small clusters of blue and green eco towards him; and activates certain machinery. Red eco increases attack power, while yellow eco allows the player to shoot ranged bursts of energy through Jak's hands. Dark eco also exists in the game, but as an obstacle that damages Jak, rather than an item that is collected. Light eco is also used exclusively in the game's final boss battle.\n\nThe game contains three bosses whose defeat earns the player power cells or allows the player some method of progressing further in the game. However, not all bosses are mandatory. The first boss, the dark eco plant, is only defeated in order to gain a power cell and to remove hazardous spiked tentacles from the jungle area. The second boss, a cyborg Lurker named Klaww, must be defeated in order to enter the Mountain Pass. To do so, players must collect enough power cells to utilize a levitation device and unblock a path, allowing access to him. Once he is defeated, the areas beyond his lair are accessible. The final boss is an ancient giant robot, which has been restored to working order by the game's villains, Gol and Maia. Defeating the robot is the final task in the game; once it has been defeated, the end cutscene plays.\n\nThe game is set on a fictional planet incorporating fantasy elements, which consists of small and not very technologically advanced settlements, surrounded by varying environments and abandoned ruins. One major hub is Sandover Village, home of the two protagonists: Jak, a silent 15-year-old boy, and his best friend, Daxter (Max Casella), a loudmouth who is transformed at the beginning of the game into a fictional hybrid of an otter and a weasel, called an ottsel.\n\nEco is a type of energy which dominates the world and was created by an ancient race of beings known only as \"Precursors\", implied by Samos Hagai (Warren Burton) at the beginning to be the masters of the universe and creators of all life on the planet. The two boys live with Samos, the Sage of green eco, and father of Keira, who is implied to be Jak's love interest. She builds the flying Zoomer vehicle that Jak and Daxter use multiple times throughout their adventure.\n\nThe primary enemies of the game consist of beasts known as \"Lurkers\" led by the antagonists Gol Acheron, the Dark Sage (Dee Snider), and his sister, Maia (Jennifer Hagood), who have been turned evil by the effects of the dark eco they studied. Their goal is to open a giant silo full of dark eco and use it to shape the universe to their liking. Other characters are the Blue (John Di Crosta), Red (Sherman Howard), and Yellow (Jason Harris) Sages, all of whom are masters of the eco from which they take their name.\n\nAgainst Samos' warnings, Jak and Daxter make their way to the forbidden Misty Island. There, they see two unknown figures ordering the Lurkers to gather eco and Precursor artifacts. The duo, worried by what they are seeing, prepare to leave, but are soon discovered by a Lurker guard. Jak manages to kill it with an explosive device they found, but the resulting explosion sends Daxter into a pool of dark eco. He emerges transformed into an ottsel (a fictional hybrid of an otter and a weasel), but is otherwise unharmed. Returning to their home of Sandover Village, they seek help from Samos. Samos explains that only Gol Acheron, the Dark Sage, can reverse the transformation.\n\nAs Gol lives to the north, the boys look for a means of crossing the deadly Fire Canyon. Samos' daughter Keira, a skilled engineer, offers to let them use her Zoomer (essentially a hoverbike) in exchange for enough power cells to operate it. Jak and Daxter begin their training in a nearby island called Geyser Rock, where they collect a few cells. Then they return to Sandover Village and explore a neighboring jungle, a beach off the village's coast, and Misty Island (which is accessible via speedboat after helping a local fisherman). After collecting enough cells, the heroes make their way through the Fire Canyon to Rock Village, the home of the Blue Sage. To their horror, the village has been attacked by a massive Lurker known as Klaww, and the Blue Sage has vanished. With the path forward blocked by Klaww, the boys look for more cells and explore an abandoned underwater Precursor city, an elevated basin filled with Precursor technology, and a swamp across the village bay. Using the collected cells, Keira clears the path, allowing Jak and Daxter to defeat Klaww, cross the Mountain Pass, and make their way into the ancient volcano where the Red Sage dwells.\n\nWith the Red Sage missing as well, Samos sends the boys to hunt for enough cells so Keira can upgrade the Zoomer's heat shield. At this time, the truth is revealed: The Blue, Red, and Yellow Sages have been abducted by Gol and his sister Maia, who intend to harness their combined power to extract the dark eco in their possession and use it to remake the world. Jak and Daxter continue to look for more cells, exploring a dark cave filled with Lurker spiders and a mountainous tundra by the volcano's summit.\n\nMaking their way through the lava tunnels leading to Gol and Maia's citadel, the boys run into Keira, who reveals that Samos has also been captured. With the four Sages now under their control, the Acheron siblings begin restoring their excavated automaton so that they can release the dark eco from its silo. After rescuing the Sages from captivity, Jak and Daxter intercept the machine and engage it in battle. However, they only manage to destroy its eco weapons. Realizing that a greater power is needed to defeat Gol and Maia, Samos and the Blue, Red, and Yellow Sages combine the four different types of eco into one, creating light eco. Daxter contemplates using the light eco to return himself to normal, but ultimately allows Jak to use it instead.\n\nUnable to escape the cockpit of their destroyed machine, Gol and Maia plunge into the silo and are presumed dead. With the world saved, the group focuses its attention on unlocking the fabled Precursor Door, which can only open with the energy of 100 power cells. Once the door is opened, it reveals a large, mysterious object enveloped in a blinding light. The object itself is kept a mystery until the second game.\n\nDevelopment on \"Jak and Daxter\" began in January 1999 as \"Project Y\". As the rest of the Naughty Dog team were working on \"Crash Team Racing\", only two programmers were allocated to the project. The rest of the team began work on \"Jak\" as well after the release of the PlayStation 2; eventually 35 developers worked on the game. Because of the PS2's status as a new console, Naughty Dog felt they had to create a unique character for it. Before the main development of \"Jak and Daxter\", Naughty Dog confirmed the idea with Sony Computer Entertainment, and after showing them a character they dubbed \"Boxman\" to demonstrate their animation engine, they came up with \"Jak and Daxter\".\n\nJason Rubin stated in an interview with Play (US Magazine) that the 40 minutes of animation in the game required 6 full-time animators and 4 support animators. In some cases the animators came from outside of the video game industry from companies such as Disney and Nickelodeon.\nThe game was in development for almost three years, and throughout this time, numerous changes were made to almost every aspect of the game, while the various engines used in the game were all tweaked to optimize their performance. The engine tweaks allowed \"Jak and Daxter\" to have no loading times or fogging and be able to display high-quality textures in a seamless, multi-level world.\n\nDue to each area of the game being 3–6 million polygons, the 3D computer graphics application Maya would stop working even on cutting-edge PCs. To combat this issue, the team had to use references and proxies as Maya and other current tools available were not capable of handling the entire area all at once.\n\nThe main characters also went through changes. Originally, there was going to be a third main character that would develop as the game was played in a \"Tamagotchi style\". Instead, Naughty Dog concentrated their efforts on two main characters in order to create the exact characters they wanted. In an interview, Naughty Dog stated: \"The character inspiration was more Joe Madureira who did \"Battle Chasers\", the comic book, than anything else...\" The game was announced at E3 2001. After the release of \"The Precursor Legacy\", Naughty Dog was prepared to create a sequel as long as the first did well enough to warrant it. After the game did go on to sell admirably, development of \"Jak II\" was begun shortly thereafter.\n\nThe game's soundtrack was composed entirely by multi-instrumentalist Josh Mancell. The album was produced by Devo's singer Mark Mothersbaugh and was recorded at Mutato Muzika Studios.\n\nA Flash game was developed and released in 2001 to promote \"The Precursor Legacy\", which was restored and made playable by archivists and fans of the \"Jak\" series in 2020.\n\nThe game received critical acclaim and currently holds a 90/100 rating on Metacritic based on 35 critic reviews. Before its release, SCEA gave \"IGN\" a demo build of \"Jak and Daxter\". Douglass C. Perry, a member of \"IGN\" staff said, \"...Jak and Daxter is a breath of fresh air, a funny, light-hearted, but no less epic action-adventure game all its own...\" after reviewing the demo build for twelve hours. \"GameSpot\" gave a score of 8.8 out of 10, praising its tight execution and heavy action elements which \"ensure that things never become dull,\" and continued, \"Next to \"\", Jak and Daxter is the best 3D platformer available for the PlayStation 2.\" \"Game Informer\" gave the game a high score of 9.25 out of 10, and also offered praise to its graphics and the absence of load times, saying: \"On several occasions, I found myself staring in awe at the little details Naughty Dog so meticulously included.\" At the 2002 Game Developers Choice Awards, Daxter from \"Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy\" won the Original Game Character of the Year award.\n\nAfter its release in late 2001, the game went on to sell over 1 million copies, promoting it to \"Greatest Hits\" and reducing the price. By July 2006, it had sold 1.7 million copies and earned $49 million in the United States, and had become the best-selling \"Jak and Daxter\" game in that country. \"Next Generation\" ranked it as the 19th highest-selling game launched for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, or GameCube between January 2000 and July 2006 in the United States. Combined sales of \"Jak and Daxter\" games reached 4 million units in the United States by July 2006. As of 2007, \"Jak and Daxter\" has sold almost 2 million copies (1.97 million) in the United States alone. \"Jak and Daxter\" received a \"Gold Prize\" in Japan for sales of over 500,000 units.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952948", "title": "Sanada Ten Braves", "text": "Sanada Ten Braves\n\nThe are a legendary group of ninja that assisted the warlord Sanada Yukimura during the Warring States era of Japan; that is, the late Sengoku period and its immediate aftermath, also known as the Azuchi–Momoyama and the early Edo periods. \n\nThe story was originally written by Sanada Sandaiki in a novel published in the Edo period. Later Tatsukawa Bunko published two novels in the Taishō period \"Sarutobi Sasuke\" and \"The Sanada Ten Braves\".\n\n\nOf the Ten, Sarutobi Sasuke and Kirigakure Saizō are the only two that appear frequently in popular depiction. Outside of works that specifically deal with the Ten Braves, appearance of all ten members is relatively rare, and even then some members are frequently more-or-less generic filler characters. \n\nSometimes modern day depictions have their genders change as well. In Tai Kato's 1963 jidaigeki musical film, \"Brave Records of the Sanada Clan\", Kirigakure is a woman. There are hints that say Anayama Kosuke could be a female, and Miyoshi brothers were nyuudou (入道) monks.\n\n\"Sanada Ten Braves\" (真田十勇士) is a Japanese role-playing game released for the Famicom in 1988.\n\nIn the \"BRAVE10\" (ブレイヴ・テン) manga by Kairi Shimotsuki, some members are replaced. Sanada Yukimura plans to create a unit with a number matching the number of fingers he has.\n\n\nIn \"Samurai Warriors 2\", some of the ten are portrayed as bodyguards. They are Sarutobi Sasuke (as Ninja), Kirigakure Saizō, Mochizuki Rokurō (as Fire Ninja), Anayama Kosuke (as Samurai), Kakei Jūzō (as Musketeer), Miyoshi Seikai and Miyoshi Isa (as Sumos).\n\nIn the series as a whole, Yukimura is constantly in the companionship of the character \"Kunoichi,\" who is exactly as her name implies (a female ninja). For all intents and purposes she's something of a representative for the legendary group overall. The 3rd and 4th entries into the series did away with special bodyguards, and the Braves henceforth appear as generic officer NPC's who are always present in any campaign where Yukimura takes part.\n\nIn , Sarutobi Sasuke appears as a playable character under the name of \"Sasuke\".\n\nIn \"Sengoku BASARA\" (戦国BASARA), Sarutobi Sasuke (猿飛 佐助) is portrayed as a loyal ninja serving the Takeda Clan (mainly Sanada Yukimura). In the \"Sengoku BASARA\" anime second season, \"Sengoku BASARA Two\" (戦国BASARA 弐, \"Sengoku BASARA Ni\"), three unnamed ninja who wear outfits with the Takeda crest similar to Sasuke's were seen in some episodes, possibly referring to the other members of the Brave Ten.\n\nIn the manga and anime series \"Samurai Deeper Kyo\", they're introduced as the loyal servants who serve Sanada Yukimura.\n\n\nThe Sanada Ten Brave appear as enemies in the Defiant Honor downloadable content for the 2017 action role-playing game, Nioh. In missions set during the Siege of Osaka, William ‘Anjin’ Adams confronts and defeats the braves before facing Sanada Yukimura himself.\n"}
{"id": "1952951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952951", "title": "MacDonald House bombing", "text": "MacDonald House bombing\n\nThe MacDonald House bombing occurred on 10 March 1965, at the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank building (currently known as MacDonald House) along Orchard Road of Singapore, a few months before Singapore gained independence from Malaysia. The nitroglycerin bomb was planted by Indonesian saboteurs during the period of Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation (known as \"Konfrontasi\"). The explosion killed three people and injured at least 33 others.\n\nDuring the \"Konfrontasi\", where Indonesia openly opposed the formation of Malaysia, Indonesian saboteurs mounted a campaign of terror in Singapore. There were a total of 37 bombings from 1963 to 1966. They were trained to attack military installations and public utilities. However, when the saboteurs failed in their attempts to attack these installations that were heavily guarded, they set off bombs indiscriminately to create panic and disrupt life on the island. By 1964, bomb explosions became frequent. To help the police and army defend Singapore from these attacks, a volunteer force was set up. More than 10,000 people signed up as volunteers. Community Centers served as bases for the volunteers to patrol their neighbourhoods. In schools, students underwent bomb drills. The government also warned Singaporeans not to handle any suspicious-looking parcels in the buildings or along streets. Despite the efforts of the British, small groups of saboteurs managed to infiltrate the island and plant bombs. By March 1965, a total of 29 bombs had been set off in Singapore.\n\nThe 10 March 1965 bombing of the MacDonald House was the most serious of the spate of bombings in Singapore, when a bomb exploded at 3:07pm at the 10-storey building. The bomb killed three people; two women who were employees of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank, Elizabeth Suzie Choo, 36, a secretary and Juliet Goh, 23, a clerk. The third victim, a Malay man Mohammed Yasin Kesit, 45, a driver, slipped into a coma after the blast, and later died. Thirty-three other people were injured. At the time of the bombing, the building had also housed the Australian High Commission and the Japanese Consulate, and was located just 1.4 km from the Istana, now the official residence of the President of Singapore.\n\nWithin four days, Singaporean police arrested two marines, Harun Said (then 21) and Osman bin Haji Mohamed Ali (then 23) for the bombing. The three Indonesian saboteurs had arrived in Singapore from Java at 11:00 a.m., wearing civilian clothes. They had been instructed to bomb an electric power house but instead headed to MacDonald House. The two saboteurs were unable to escape due to their motorboat breakdown, one saboteur, Gani bin Arup, managed to flee due to him taking a different route. Later examination of the building showed that about 20 to 25 lb (9 to 11 kg) of nitroglycerine explosives were used for the bomb.\n\nAs they were in civilian clothes and had targeted a civilian building, the two men were tried in Singapore for the murder of the three people who died in the blast. They were convicted and hanged in Changi Prison on 17 October 1968.\n\nIn the meantime, Singapore gained independence and left the Malaysian Federation on 9 August 1965, just five months after the bombing. In March 1967, the then President of Indonesia, Sukarno, who had initiated the Konfrontasi, was removed from power. A clemency plea by Suharto, who assumed the position of President, was rejected. The Singapore Embassy in Jakarta was ransacked on the day of the saboteurs' hanging. Bilateral-relations between Singapore and Indonesia remained tense. Bilateral relations improved after 1973, when the then Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, in a visit to Indonesia, visited the graves of the two marines and scattered flowers on them, followed by Suharto's visit to Singapore in 1974.\n\nIn 2014, Indonesia named a \"Bung Tomo\"-class corvette warship as \"\", after the two hanged commandos, worsening bilateral ties between Indonesia and Singapore. In response, Singapore cancelled a series of planned inter-military activities and banned the warship from its ports and naval bases and also withdrew its delegation from an international defence meeting, after two Indonesian men at the event were seen dressed in uniform. General Moeldoko, Indonesia's military chief, apologised for the naming of the ship, which was accepted by Singapore in a statement by Singapore Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen, which he later clarified that the \"apology\" was that the naming of the ship was irreversible.\n\nOn 10 March 2015, 50 years after the bombing, a memorial dedicated to the victims of the Konfrontasi as well as soldiers who died during that period, was unveiled at Dhoby Ghaut Green, situated across MacDonald House. It was built at the recommendation of the Singapore Armed Forces Veterans League (SAFVL) with the objective as a remembrance of the victims, as well as to educate younger generations about the tragedy. The unveiling was officiated by Minister for Culture, Community and Youth Lawrence Wong, as \"a lasting reminder of the victims of Konfrontasi, and those who risked their lives defending our country\". Religious leaders from the Inter-Religious Organisation also prayed at the site, before laying a wreath on the monument.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952952", "title": "Link aggregation", "text": "Link aggregation\n\nIn computer networking, the term link aggregation refers to various methods of combining (aggregating) multiple network connections in parallel in order to increase throughput beyond what a single connection could sustain, and to provide redundancy in case one of the links should fail. A link aggregation group (LAG) is the collection of physical ports combined together.\n\nOther umbrella terms used to describe the method include trunking, bundling, bonding, channeling or teaming. These umbrella terms encompass not only vendor-independent standards such as Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) for Ethernet defined in IEEE 802.1AX or the previous IEEE 802.3ad, but also various proprietary solutions.\n\nLink aggregation addresses two problems with Ethernet connections: bandwidth limitations and lack of resilience.\n\nWith regard to the first issue: bandwidth requirements do not scale linearly. Ethernet bandwidths historically have increased tenfold each generation: 10 megabit/s, 100 Mbit/s, 1000 Mbit/s, 10,000 Mbit/s. If one started to bump into bandwidth ceilings, then the only option was to move to the next generation which could be cost prohibitive. An alternative solution, introduced by many of the network manufacturers in the early 1990s, is to combine two physical Ethernet links into one logical link via channel bonding. Most of these solutions required manual configuration and identical equipment on both sides of the aggregation.\n\nThe second problem involves the three single points of failure in a typical port-cable-port connection. In either the usual computer-to-switch or in a switch-to-switch configuration, the cable itself or either of the ports the cable is plugged into can fail. Multiple physical connections can be made, but many of the higher level protocols were not designed to fail over completely seamlessly.\n\nNetwork architects can implement aggregation at any of the lowest three layers of the OSI model.\n\n\nRegardless of the layer on which aggregation occurs, it is possible to balance the network load across all links. However, not all implementations take advantage of this. Most methods provide failover as well.\n\nCombining can either occur such that multiple interfaces share one logical address (i.e. IP) or one physical address (i.e. MAC address), or it allows each interface to have its own address. The former requires that both ends of a link use the same aggregation method, but has performance advantages over the latter.\n\nChannel bonding is differentiated from load balancing in that load balancing divides traffic between network interfaces on per network socket (layer 4) basis, while channel bonding implies a division of traffic between physical interfaces at a lower level, either per packet (layer 3) or a data link (layer 2) basis.\n\nBy the mid 1990s, most network switch manufacturers had included aggregation capability as a proprietary extension to increase bandwidth between their switches. Each manufacturer developed their own method, which led to compatibility problems. The IEEE 802.3 group took up a study group to create an inter-operable link layer standard in a November 1997 meeting. The group quickly agreed to include an automatic configuration feature which would add in redundancy as well. This became known as \"Link Aggregation Control Protocol\".\n\n, most gigabit channel-bonding schemes use the IEEE standard of Link Aggregation which was formerly clause 43 of the IEEE 802.3 standard added in March 2000 by the IEEE 802.3ad task force. Nearly every network equipment manufacturer quickly adopted this joint standard over their proprietary standards.\n\nThe 802.3 maintenance task force report for the 9th revision project in November 2006 noted that certain 802.1 layers (such as 802.1X security) were positioned in the protocol stack below Link Aggregation which was defined as an 802.3 sublayer. To resolve this discrepancy, the 802.3ax (802.1AX) task force was formed, resulting in the formal transfer of the protocol to the 802.1 group with the publication of IEEE 802.1AX-2008 on 3 November 2008.\n\nWithin the IEEE specification, the Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) provides a method to control the bundling of several physical ports together to form a single logical channel. LACP allows a network device to negotiate an automatic bundling of links by sending LACP packets to the peer (directly-connected device that also implements LACP).\n\nLACP Features and practical examples\n\n\nLACP works by sending frames (LACPDUs) down all links that have the protocol enabled. If it finds a device on the other end of the link that also has LACP enabled, it will also independently send frames along the same links enabling the two units to detect multiple links between themselves and then combine them into a single logical link. LACP can be configured in one of two modes: active or passive. In active mode it will always send frames along the configured links. In passive mode, however, it acts as \"speak when spoken to\", and therefore can be used as a way of controlling accidental loops (as long as the other device is in active mode).\n\nIn addition to the IEEE link aggregation substandards, there are a number of proprietary aggregation schemes including Cisco's EtherChannel and Port Aggregation Protocol, Juniper's Aggregated Ethernet, AVAYA's Multi-Link Trunking, Split Multi-Link Trunking, Routed Split Multi-Link Trunking and Distributed Split Multi-Link Trunking, ZTE's \"Smartgroup\", Huawei's \"Eth-Trunk\", or Connectify's Speedify. Most high-end network devices support some kind of link aggregation, and software-based implementations – such as the *BSD \"lagg\" package, Linux \"bonding\" driver, Solaris \"dladm aggr\", etc. – also exist for many operating systems.\n\nThe Linux \"bonding\" driver provides a method for aggregating multiple network interface controllers (NICs) into a single logical bonded interface of two or more so-called \"(NIC) slaves\". The majority of modern Linux distributions come with a Linux kernel which has the Linux bonding driver integrated as a loadable kernel module and the \"ifenslave\" (if = [network] interface) user-level control program pre-installed. Donald Becker programmed the original Linux bonding driver. It came into use with the Beowulf cluster patches for the Linux kernel 2.0.\n\nModes for the Linux bonding driver (network interface aggregation modes) are supplied as parameters to the kernel bonding module at load time. They may be given as command-line\narguments to the insmod or modprobe command, but are usually specified in a Linux distribution-specific configuration file. The behavior of the single logical bonded interface depends upon its specified bonding driver mode. The default parameter is balance-rr.\n\nThe Linux Team driver provides an alternative to bonding driver. The main difference is that Team driver kernel part contains only essential code and the rest of the code (link validation, LACP implementation, decision making, etc.) is run in userspace as a part of \"teamd\" daemon.\n\nLink aggregation offers an inexpensive way to set up a high-speed backbone network that transfers much more data than any single port or device can deliver. Link aggregation also allows the network's backbone speed to grow incrementally as demand on the network increases, without having to replace everything and deploy new hardware.\n\nMost backbone installations install more cabling or fiber optic pairs than is initially necessary, even if they have no immediate need for the additional cabling. This is done because labor costs are higher than the cost of the cable, and running extra cable reduces future labor costs if networking needs change. Link aggregation can allow the use of these extra cables to increase backbone speeds for little or no extra cost if ports are available.\n\nWhen balancing traffic, network administrators often wish to avoid reordering Ethernet frames. For example, TCP suffers additional overhead when dealing with out-of-order packets. This goal is approximated by sending all frames associated with a particular session across the same link. Common implementations use L2 or L3 hashes (i.e. based on the MAC or the IP addresses), ensuring that the same flow is always sent via the same physical link.\n\nHowever, this may not provide even distribution across the links in the trunk when only a single or very few pairs of hosts communicate with each other, i.e. when the hashes provide too little variation. It effectively limits the client bandwidth in aggregate to its single member's maximum bandwidth per communication partner. In extreme, one link is fully loaded while the others are completely idle. For this reason, an even load balancing and full utilization of all trunked links is almost never reached in real-life implementations. More advanced switches can employ an L4 hash (i.e. using TCP/UDP port numbers), which may increase the traffic variation across the links – depending on whether the ports vary – and bring the balance closer to an even distribution.\n\nMultiple switches may be utilized to optimize for maximum throughput in a multiple network switch topology, when the switches are configured in parallel as part of an isolated network between two or more systems. In this configuration, the switches are isolated from one another. One reason to employ a topology such as this is for an isolated network with many hosts (a cluster configured for high performance, for example), using multiple smaller switches can be more cost effective than a single larger switch. If access beyond the network is required, an individual host can be equipped with an additional network device connected to an\nexternal network; this host then additionally acts as a gateway. The network interfaces 1 through 3 of computer cluster node A, for example, are connected via separate network switches 1 through 3 with network interfaces 1 through 3 of computer cluster node B; there are no inter-connections between the network switches 1 through 3. The Linux bonding driver mode typically employed in configurations of this type is balance-rr; the balance-rr mode allows individual connections between two hosts to effectively utilize greater than one interface's bandwidth.\n\nNICs trunked together can also provide network links beyond the throughput of any one single NIC. For example, this allows a central file server to establish an aggregate 2-gigabit connection using two 1-gigabit NICs teamed together. Note the data signaling rate will still be 1Gbit/s, which can be misleading depending on methodologies used to test throughput after link aggregation is employed.\n\nMicrosoft Windows Server 2012 supports link aggregation natively. Previous Windows Server versions relied on manufacturer support of the feature within their device driver software. Intel, for example, released Advanced Networking Services (ANS) to bond Intel Fast Ethernet and Gigabit cards.Nvidia also supports \"teaming\" with their Nvidia Network Access Manager/Firewall Tool. HP also has a teaming tool for HP branded NICs which will allow for non-EtherChanneled NIC teaming or which will support several modes of EtherChannel (port aggregation) including 802.3ad with LACP. In addition, there is a basic layer-3 aggregation (available at least from Windows XP SP3), that allows servers with multiple IP interfaces on the same network to perform load balancing, and home users with more than one internet connection, to increase connection speed by sharing the load on all interfaces.\nBroadcom offers advanced functions via Broadcom Advanced Control Suite (BACS), via which the teaming functionality of BASP (\"Broadcom Advanced Server Program\") is available, offering 802.3ad static LAGs, LACP, and \"smart teaming\" which doesn't require any configuration on the switches to work. It is possible to configure teaming with BACS with a mix of NICs from different vendors as long as at least one of them is Broadcom and the other NICs have the required capabilities to create teaming.\n\nLinux, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, macOS, OpenSolaris and commercial Unix distributions such as AIX implement Ethernet bonding (trunking) at a higher level, and can hence deal with NICs from different manufacturers or drivers, as long as the NIC is supported by the kernel.\n\nCitrix XenServer and VMware ESX have native support for link-aggregation. XenServer offers both static LAGs as well as LACP. vSphere 5.1 (ESXi) supports both static LAGs and LACP natively with their virtual distributed switch.\nFor Microsoft's Hyper-V, bonding or teaming isn't offered from the hyper-visor or OS-level, but the above-mentioned methods for teaming under Windows applies to Hyper-V as well.\n\nWith the modes \"balance-rr\", \"balance-xor\", \"broadcast\" and \"802.3ad\", all physical ports in the link aggregation group must reside on the same logical switch, which, in most common scenarios, will leave a single point of failure when the physical switch to which all links are connected goes offline. The modes \"active-backup\", \"balance-tlb\", and \"balance-alb\" can also be set up with two or more switches. But after failover (like all other modes), in some cases, active sessions may fail (due to ARP problems) and have to be restarted.\n\nHowever, almost all vendors have proprietary extensions that resolve some of this issue: they aggregate multiple physical switches into one logical switch. The Split multi-link trunking (SMLT) protocol allows multiple Ethernet links to be split across multiple switches in a stack, preventing any single point of failure and additionally allowing all switches to be load balanced across multiple aggregation switches from the single access stack. These devices synchronize state across an Inter-Switch Trunk (IST) such that they appear to the connecting (access) device to be a single device (switch block) and prevent any packet duplication. SMLT provides enhanced resiliency with sub-second failover and sub-second recovery for all speed trunks (10 Mbit/s, 100 Mbit/s, 1,000 Mbit/s, and 10 Gbit/s) while operating transparently to end-devices.\n\nIn most implementations, all the ports used in an aggregation consist of the same physical type, such as all copper ports (10/100/1000BASE‑T), all multi-mode fiber ports, or all single-mode fiber ports. However, all the IEEE standard requires is that each link be full duplex and all of them have an identical speed (10, 100, 1,000 or 10,000 Mbit/s).\n\nMany switches are PHY independent, meaning that a switch could have a mixture of copper, SX, LX, LX10 or other GBICs. While maintaining the same PHY is the usual approach, it is possible to aggregate a 1000BASE-SX fiber for one link and a 1000BASE-LX (longer, diverse path) for the second link, but the important thing is that the speed will be 1 Gbit/s full duplex for both links. One path may have a slightly longer propagation time but the standard has been engineered so this will not cause an issue.\n\nAggregation mismatch refers to not matching the aggregation type on both ends of the link. Some switches do not implement the 802.1AX standard but support static configuration of link aggregation. Therefore, link aggregation between similarly statically configured switches will work but will fail between a statically configured switch and a device that is configured for LACP.\n\nOn Ethernet interfaces, channel bonding requires assistance from both the Ethernet switch and the host computer's operating system, which must \"stripe\" the delivery of frames across the network interfaces in the same manner that I/O is striped across disks in a RAID 0 array. For this reason, some discussions of channel bonding also refer to Redundant Array of Inexpensive Nodes (RAIN) or to \"redundant array of independent network interfaces\".\n\nIn analog modems, multiple dial-up links over POTS may be bonded. Throughput over such bonded connections can come closer to the aggregate bandwidth of the bonded links than can throughput under routing schemes which simply load-balance outgoing network connections over the links.\n\nSimilarly, multiple DSL lines can be bonded to give higher bandwidth; in the United Kingdom, ADSL is sometimes bonded to give for example 512kbit/s upload bandwidth and 4 megabit/s download bandwidth, in areas that only have access to 2 megabit/s bandwidth.\n\nUnder the DOCSIS 3.0 and 3.1 specifications for data over cable TV (CATV) systems, multiple channels may be bonded. Under DOCSIS 3.0, up to 32 downstream and 8 upstream channels may be bonded. These are typically 6 or 8MHz wide. DOCSIS 3.1 defines more complicated arrangements involving aggregation at the level subcarriers and larger notional channels.\n\nBroadband bonding is a type of channel bonding that refers to aggregation of multiple channels at OSI layers at level four or above. Channels bonded can be wired links such as a T-1 or DSL line. Additionally, it is possible to bond multiple cellular links for an aggregated wireless bonded link.\n\nPrevious bonding methodologies resided at lower OSI layers, requiring coordination with telecommunications companies for implementation. Broadband bonding, because it is implemented at higher layers, can be done without this coordination.\n\nCommercial implementations of Broadband Channel Bonding include:\n\nSee also: MIMO\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952953", "title": "Kirigakure Saizō", "text": "Kirigakure Saizō\n\nAs in the case of Sasuke, Saizō might be a fictional creation of the Meiji-period popular literature, possibly based on Kirigakure Shikaemon. According to the historian Stephen Turnbull and non-fiction writer Joel Levy, there is a historical record of a failed assassination attempt by a ninja called Kirigakure Saizō, sent by the warlord Tokugawa Ieyasu to kill his rival Toyotomi Hideyoshi (Tokichiro Kinoshita). According to another version of this incident, presented by the martial artist and researcher Donn F. Draeger, the \"careless ninja\" Saizō was captured while only spying on Hideyoshi, which actually saved the life of the warlord because he was about to be killed by a double agent, Yusuke Takiguchi; Saizō's life was then spared on the condition of declaring loyalty to the Toyotomi clan.\n\nSaizō is said to be a master of Iga ninjutsu. Sarutobi Sasuke, a Kōga ninja, is thus often portrayed as Saizō's arch-rival, and after they both converted to Sanada's cause, best friends and partners. The name Kirigakure literally means \"Hidden Mist\", as such Saizō is often associated with fog and, by extension, illusion magic. In contrast to Sasuke, who is often rendered with an almost feral child appearance, Saizō usually appears as a calm, elegant, mature, handsome and sometimes feminine young man. The martial artist and author Stephen K. Hayes compared the portrayal of Saizō in the Japanese children books to this of another ninja \"romantic figure\" of the bandit hero Ishikawa Goemon.\n\nAfter Sasuke, Saizō is the only other one of the Ten who is relatively often recurring in the modern works of fiction. In the manga and anime series \"Samurai Deeper Kyo\", Saizo is a fanatical yet humorous loyalist of Sanada Yukimura. In the film \"Goemon\", Kirigakure Saizō was portrayed by Takao Osawa (and Takeru Satoh in the role of young Saizō). He also appears in the film \"\" and the manga series \"BRAVE10\", and is the subject of the fourth and the seventh films in the \"Shinobi no Mono\" series (\"Shinobi no Mono: Zoku Kirigakure Saizō\" and \"Shinobi No Mono: Shin Kirigakure Saizō\"), as well as a player character in the video game \"Onimusha Tactics\"; in \"Shall We Date?: Ninja Love\", he is either a romance option or the player character. He also makes an appearance as one of the antagonist in the manga and anime series \"Mushibugyo\".\n\nThere are also several more or less indirect connections. In the Super Sentai series \"Ninja Sentai Kakuranger\", one of the main characters, Saizou, played by Hiroshi Tsuchida, is a modern descendant of Saizō. In a highly unusual portrayal in the video game \"Kessen\", Saizo is one the trio of Yukimura's female ninja bodyguards. The modern ninja named Saizo are also player characters in the video game series \"Power Instinct\" (Saizo Hattori) and \"Breakers Revenge\" (Tobikageno Saizō), while the title character in the manga and anime series \"Igano Kabamaru\" was raised and trained by his grandfather Saizō Igano. A village named Kirigakure (\"Hidden in Mist\") appears in the manga and anime series \"Naruto\", with its first appearing mist character Momochi Zabuza using fog techniques befitting the lore.\n"}
{"id": "1952958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952958", "title": "Gary Wolfe (wrestler)", "text": "Gary Wolfe (wrestler)\n\nGary Wolfe (born March 11, 1967) is an American professional wrestler best known for his time in Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) under the ring name Pitbull #1 as one half of the tag team called The Pitbulls, with Anthony Durante as Pitbull #2. He was a one-time Television Champion and a one-time World Tag Team Champion in ECW. He is also a former two-time 3PW World Heavyweight Champion.\n\nWolfe made his professional wrestling debut on January 2, 1988 by teaming with Johnny Hotbody to form a tag team called The Gladiators, who lost their first match to Brad Armstrong and Tim Horner. Wolfe formed a tag team with Anthony Durante, who competed in World Wrestling Federation (WWF) as enhancement talents in 1989. Wolfe and Durante formed a tag team called American Bulldogs, which would later be renamed The Pitbulls and Mad Bull Busters. The team competed in many promotions including New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW), South Atlantic Pro Wrestling and Tri-State Wrestling Alliance (TWA). Wolfe would compete under the ring name Pitbull Spike.\n\nThe Pitbulls debuted in Eastern Championship Wrestling (ECW) at a live event on April 25, 1992, where Pitbull Spike participated in a battle royal with the winner earning an ECW Heavyweight Championship match. Later that night, Pitbulls defeated Jeff Royal and Johnny Hotbody in the main event of the show. The Pitbulls then engaged in a brief rivalry with The Super Destroyers before departing the company.\n\nGary Wolf returned to ECW, making his debut as a singles competitor at Holiday Hell on December 26, 1993 under the ring name The Pitbull, where he lost to Chad Austin in his debut match. However, Pitbull attacked Austin and The Sandman, with the assistance of Jason, thus forming an alliance with Jason and established himself as a villain in the process. He aligned himself with Rockin' Rebel and the two faced Sandman and Tommy Cairo in a dog collar match in a losing effort at \"The Night the Line was Crossed\" on February 5, 1994. On the April 19 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", Pitbull defeated J.T. Smith to capture the ECW Television Championship when Smith was attacked by The Public Enemy before the match. Pitbull began a rivalry with The Tazmaniac after Tazmaniac was named the number one contender to his newly won Television Championship. On the May 17 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", Pitbull lost the title to Mikey Whipwreck after a distraction by Tazmaniac. This led to a lengthy rivalry between Pitbull and Tazmaniac, beginning at \"When Worlds Collide\", where Pitbull defeated Tazmaniac in their first match.\n\nOn the June 7 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", it was announced that Pitbull would face Tazmaniac in a dog collar match at Hostile City Showdown, which Tazmaniac won. After the match, Pitbull #2 made his ECW debut and joined Pitbull in attacking Tazmaniac and thus formed The Pitbulls for the first time on ECW television. Pitbulls competed as a team for the first time in ECW at Heat Wave, where they lost to Tazmaniac and Sabu. On the July 26 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", Pitbulls attacked their tag team partner Jimmy Snuka after they lost a match to Tommy Dreamer, Terry Funk and Dory Funk, Jr. This led to Tazmaniac making the save, leading to a match between Pitbulls and the team of Snuka and Tazmaniac at Hardcore Heaven, which Pitbulls lost, thus ending the feud. Pitbulls defeated The Bad Breed (Axl Rotten and Ian Rotten) in a match at November to Remember and lost a handicap match to 911 at Holiday Hell.\n\nPitbulls defeated Tony Stetson and Johnny Hotbody at \"Three Way Dance\" on April 8, 1995, which stipulated that Stetson and Hotbody would be fired by Raven's Nest. As a result of winning, Pitbulls joined Raven's Nest. Pitbulls began pursuing the World Tag Team Championship, challenging The Public Enemy (Johnny Grunge and Rocco Rock) for the titles at Hostile City Showdown but failed to win the titles. They received another title shot in a double dog collar match at \"Enter the Sandman\", where they lost again. Dissension began between Pitbulls and Raven's Nest when Raven cost them matches against Taz and 2 Cold Scorpio and The Dudleys (Snot Dudley and Dudley Dudley) by abandoning them to solve the issue between Stevie Richards, Francine and Beulah McGillicutty. This led to Pitbulls refusing to follow Raven and Richards' orders of superbombing Luna Vachon and attacked their leaders, thus turning fan favorites at Hardcore Heaven. As a result, Pitbulls aligned with Raven's Nest rival Tommy Dreamer and began feuding with Raven and Stevie Richards, defeating them in a two out of three falls dog collar match to win the World Tag Team Championship, thanks to interference by Francine at Gangstas Paradise. They lost the title back to Raven and Richards on October 7.\n\nFrancine would become the manager of Pitbulls. Pitbulls began feuding with Jason's next tag team The Eliminators (John Kronus and Perry Saturn) after Jason confronted Francine. The two teams traded wins with each other at November to Remember and December to Dismember. At the 1996 CyberSlam event, Francine and the Pitbulls defeated Stevie Richards and Eliminators in a dog collar match. After the match, Eliminators attacked Pitbulls. Pitbulls challenged Eliminators for the World Tag Team Championship at \"Big Ass Extreme Bash\" on March 8, but failed to win the titles, thus ending the feud.\n\nAt Heat Wave, Shane Douglas broke Wolfe's neck by hitting him a DDT on a steel chair. Later in the match, Francine turned on Pitbulls and helped Douglas in winning the ECW World Television Championship. This resulted in a lengthy feud between Douglas and Gary Wolfe's partner, Anthony Durante, while Wolfe recovered from his injury. Gary Wolfe can be seen on \"Forever Hardcore\", where he talked about how he broke his neck. Wolfe was sidelined for the rest of the year, recovering from his injuries. Pitbull #1 returned to in-ring competition at the 1997 House Party, where he challenged Douglas for the World Television Championship but Douglas retained the title via count-out. He received another title shot against Douglas in an \"I Quit\" match at Hostile City Showdown on March 15, where Douglas retained, thanks to interference by Francine. Pitbulls would lose the feud against The Triple Threat (Shane Douglas, Bam Bam Bigelow and Chris Candido) and then took a hiatus in July.\n\nPitbulls returned to ECW at \"As Good as it Gets\", where they turned villains by aligning themselves with Lance Wright and confronting Taz, who attacked Pitbulls. Pitbull #1 would take a managerial role for Pitbull #2, who feuded with Taz over the World Television Championship but failed to win the title at November to Remember. Pitbulls made their last televised appearance in ECW on the December 20 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", after which they left ECW.\n\nPitbulls competed in various independent promotions after leaving ECW. Their most notable stint was with National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) territory NWA New Jersey, where they captured the NWA United States Tag Team Championship by defeating Lance Diamond and Steve Corino on August 22, 1998. During this time, they also made an appearance in World Wrestling Federation on the August 29 episode of \"Shotgun Saturday Night\", losing to The Headbangers. They appeared at the NWA 50th Anniversary Show, where they teamed with defending champion Stevie Richards and Dead Man Walking against Steve Corino, Lance Diamond, Doug Gilbert and Rik Ratchett in a steel cage match for the NWA National Heavyweight Championship, in which Richards lost the title to Gilbert. Pitbulls lost the United States Tag Team Championship to The Misfits (Derek Domino and Harley Lewis) on November 13. They toured many promotions including Xtreme Pro Wrestling (XPW), Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling (FMW) and World Wrestling Council (WWC).\n\nGary Wolfe returned to ECW at a live event on February 11, 2000, where he teamed with The Sandman and Tommy Dreamer against Jack Victory, Rhino and Steve Corino in a losing effort. Pitbull #1 made his televised return to ECW as a fan favorite on the June 25, 2000 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", where he lost to Scotty Anton. On the July 7 episode of \"ECW on TNN\", Pitbull #1 rescued Spike Dudley from an assault by Rhino, leading to Pitbull receiving a title shot against Rhino for the World Television Championship, which he quickly lost.\n\nWolfe appeared regularly for Tod Gordon's \"Pro Wrestling Unplugged\" promotion as 'The Pitbull' Gary Wolfe. He also made many appearances in Pro-Pain Pro Wrestling (3PW), during his time there winning both their World Heavyweight Championship (being first to do so), and their Tag Team Championship, with Mike Kruel. Wolfe appeared at WWE's ECW One Night Stand 2005 to introduce the \"ECW Remembers\" video honoring \"extreme\" wrestlers who had died. His own partner Anthony Durante, died on September 25, 2003, from a homemade OxyContin overdose.\n\nHe has appeared in Pro Wrestling Unplugged, leading a group called Team PIT featuring wrestlers, Aramis and former Women's Champion, Annie Social. after PWU was sold to Atomic Championship Wrestling (ACW) Wolfe became one of the head trainers for the CZW Wrestling Academy replacing the late John Kronus. As a wrestling trainer Wolfe has helped trained many wrestlers. Notable graduates include The Wifebeater, Annie Social, and Johnny Kashmere.\n\nGary Wolfe previously co-hosted a wrestling radio show on the internet called False Count Radio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952970", "title": "KRW", "text": "KRW\n\nKRW may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1952972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952972", "title": "KPW", "text": "KPW\n\nKPW may mean:\n"}
{"id": "1952976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952976", "title": "Dark Water (2005 film)", "text": "Dark Water (2005 film)\n\nDark Water is a 2005 American supernatural horror drama film directed by Walter Salles, starring Jennifer Connelly and Tim Roth. The film is a remake of the 2002 Japanese film of the same name, which is in turn based on the short story \"Floating Water\" by Koji Suzuki, who also wrote the \"Ring\" trilogy. The film also stars John C. Reilly, Pete Postlethwaite, Perla Haney-Jardine, Dougray Scott and Ariel Gade.\n\nThe film was released on July 8, 2005, to mixed reviews and grossed almost $50 million worldwide.\n\nDahlia battles her ex-husband Kyle for custody of their daughter Cecilia. Kyle wants Cecilia to live closer to his apartment in Jersey City, but Dahlia wants to move to the cheaper Roosevelt Island, where she has found a good school.\n\nDahlia and Cecilia view an apartment in a dilapidated complex on Roosevelt Island, a few blocks from Cecilia's new school. Cecilia sneaks to the roof and finds a Hello Kitty backpack near the building's water tower; the manager, Murray, explains that no one has claimed it. Cecilia initially dislikes the apartment but decides she wants to live there. Dahlia makes an offer the same day.\n\nShortly after they move in, the bedroom ceiling begins to leak dark water. Dahlia finds the apartment above flooded from every faucet. She finds a family portrait of the former tenants, the Rimsky family: a mother, father, and a girl Cecilia's age. Dahlia complains to Murray and the superintendent Veeck about the water, but Veeck insists that he is not a plumber and blames teenage vandals. The ceiling, shoddily patched by Veeck, leaks again. Dahlia is intimidated by teenagers in the apartment, and sees the face of a screaming girl in a washing machine. This isn't helped by a recurring nightmare she has, seeing Natasha's mother warning her not to tell the police what she's done to her own daughter or else she will harm Cecilia.\n\nCecilia's teacher is troubled by Cecilia's \"imaginary friend\", Natasha. Cecilia appears to argue with Natasha and lose control of her hand as she paints. After Dahlia catches Cecilia playing with dolls and talking to Natasha in the elevator, she forbids Cecilia to talk to Natasha again. In the bathroom, Cecilia passes out as dark water gushes from the toilets and sinks. As Dahlia is busy meeting her lawyer, Jeff Platzer, Kyle takes Cecilia to his apartment. Dahlia feels some form of relief knowing that Kyle will keep her safe.\n\nThat night, Dahlia follows footsteps to the roof and sees that water is spilling from the water tower. Inside she finds Natasha's body and horrified by this, she calls the police. Veeck is arrested for negligence as he was aware of her body. This was why he refused to fix the complex's plumbing problems and he's being taken away. Veeck kept claiming that Natasha's parents paid him money to keep quiet about their willful abandonment of their daughter and lie for them that she was with either of them. Dahlia and Platzer discover that her parents had cruelly abandoned her willingly. In turn, they also conclude that Natasha was left to fend for herself. She fell into the water tower and drowned, leaving her as a vengeful ghost who is jealous of Cecilia because she had Dahlia as her mother.\n\nDahlia agrees to move closer to Kyle so shared custody will be easier. As she packs, a girl in a hooded bathrobe who resembles Cecilia asks her to read to her. When Dahlia hears Cecilia playing in the bathtub, she realizes that the girl is Natasha. Natasha begs Dahlia not to leave but Dahlia rushes into the bathroom to save Cecilia. Natasha locks Cecilia in the shower compartment and holds her underwater. Dahlia pleads with Natasha to let her daughter go, promising to be her mother forever. Floods overwhelm the apartment, and Natasha and the ghost of Dahlia walk the hall as mother and daughter.\n\nThree weeks later, Kyle and Cecilia pick up the rest of their belongings. In the elevator, Dahlia braids Cecilia's hair, telling her she will always be with her.\n\n\nReviews of the film are mixed. It currently holds a 47% \"Rotten\" rating at Rotten Tomatoes based on 154 reviews, with an average score of 5.54/10.\n\nWilliam Thomas wrote in Empire the film as \"Interesting and unsettling, but never terrifying. Best viewed as a family drama-come-Tale Of The Unexpected rather than a full-on horror\".\n\nFor Rolling Stone magazine, Peter Travers reviews the film as \"A classy ghost story is just the ticket in a summer of crass jolts... Screenwriter Rafael Yglesias (Fearless) stays alert to the psychological fears that underpin the supernatural doings in the apartment upstairs. Connelly digs deep into the role of a woman with issues of abandonment and rage that slowly reveal their roots. In a movie with more subtext than Rosemary’s Baby, nearly everyone, including Tim Roth as Dahlia’s lawyer, harbors secrets. Salles unleashes a torrent of suspense for one purpose: to plumb the violence of the mind.\" \n\nTodd McCarthy of Variety says that \"The ominous downpours that have drenched much of recent Asian cinema soak New York in “Dark Water,” the well-crafted but thoroughly unsuspenseful Hollywood debut by Brazilian director Walter Salles. Remake of the 2002 Japanese film of the same name from the progenitors of “The Ring,” novelist Koji Suzuki and helmer Hideo Nakata, is dripping with clammy, claustrophobic atmosphere, but ultimately reveals itself as just another mildewed, child-centric ghost story of little import or resonance.\" \n\nFrom the Washington Post, Ann Hornaday called it a \"Tasteful but unremitting bummer and yet one more case of an Oscar-winning actress proving that she can still do the kinds of disposable movies big awards are supposedly meant to banish from your résume forever.\" \n\nFor Slant Magazine Nick Schager writes \"Similar to other stateside revisions of J-horror imports, Salles’s ghost story improves upon its source material’s paper-thin characterizations and mood of poignant anxiety even as its narrative explications drain any aura of irrational dread, a reasonable trade-off considering how few frights Nakata’s sodden dud generated from its illogical atmosphere. Yet given its pedigree—author Suzuki also wrote Ringu, which was directed by Nakata—it’s no surprise that this slick adaptation is also a moldy, third-generation retread of The Ring.\" \n\nDark Water played in 2,657 theaters with a complete average run of 3.2 weeks. The movie opened to a rocky start with only making $9,939,251, which is 39.0% of the movie's total gross, on its opening weekend. It went on to make $25,473,093 domestically and $24,000,000 in the international box office, adding up to a worldwide box office total of $49,473,093.\n\n\"Dark Water\" is available on DVD, in two releases. One release is in pan and scan full screen and includes the theatrical cut, which is PG-13 and runs 107 minutes. The other is in widescreen (aspect ratio 2.35:1) and includes an unrated cut, which is actually shorter than the theatrical cut and runs at 103 minutes. Note that exact specifications vary by DVD region. There is also a PlayStation Portable UMD video version of the film. A Blu-ray Disc was released on October 17, 2006, but it only contains the widescreen PG-13 theatrical version and fewer extras than the DVD releases.\n\nUnrated version adds one scene (dream sequence) but removes the dream/reality scene (where Dahlia dreams that her daughter returns from her father) and the scene where Ceci calls Dahlia. In the end the unrated version runs ca 1 minute shorter. \nThanks to effective marketing \"Dark Water\" was released in two different versions after its theatrical run in American cinemas; the usual theatrical version (Fullscreen-DVD) and an unrated version. More mysterious than the movie itself are the rumours about said versions. \nOn the internet one can find numerous reviews in which the writers can only consternately remark that they just can´t recognize any difference between the two versions. Some reviewers even claimed that the two versions were identical, and others again that the unrated version only included more swear words. \nFurthermore it didn´t take long to notice that the unrated version was even specified with a shorter running-time than the theatrial version. Of course this does not have to mean much because the specifications on the back cover of DVDs aren´t necessarily always accurate.\n\n\"I Got Soul\" \nWritten by John Martinez and Josh Kessler \nPerformed by Scar featuring Filthy Rich \nCourtesy of Marc Ferrari/MasterSource\n\n\"Electrified\" \nWritten by Mike Gallagher and Marc Ferrari \nPerformed by Mike Gallagher \nCourtesy of Marc Ferrari/MasterSource\n\n\"Itsy Bitsy Spider\" \n(uncredited) \nWritten by Traditional\n\n\"Namidaga Afuretemo\" \n(Japanese Theme Song) \nPerformed by Crystal Kay Crystal Kay \nTracklist\n\n1. Seattle, 1974\n\n2. The Tram (Main Title)\n\n3. Ceci Wanders\n\n4. The Drip Stain\n\n5. Flotsam\n\n6. Deluge in 10F\n\n7. Mom From Hell\n\n8. A Ghost in the Machine\n\n9. New Nightmare\n\n10. Hello Again Kitty\n\n11. The Water Tower\n\n12. The Sacrifice\n\n13. Final Elevator\n\n14. End Credits\n\n\"Soundtrack music by Angelo Badalamenti\"\n\nRoosevelt Island, New York City, New York, USA\nToronto, Ontario, Canada\n\nSyosset High School, Syosset, Long Island, New York, USA\n\nChandler Valley Center Studios - 13927 Saticoy St, Panorama City, California, USA\n\nNew York City, New York, USA\n\nJanuary 20, 2004\nSound Mix: DTS | Dolby Digital | SDDS\n\nColor: Color\n\nAspect Ratio: 2.35 : 1\n\nCamera: Panavision Panaflex Gold II, Panavision Primo Lenses\n\nPanavision Panaflex Millennium, Panavision Primo Lenses\n\nLaboratory: Technicolor\n\nNegative Format: 35 mm (Kodak Vision2 500T 5218)\n\nCinematographic Process: Panavision (anamorphic)\n\nPrinted Film Format: 35 mm (Kodak Vision Premier 2393)\n\nFangoria Chainsaw Awards(2006)\n\nChainsaw Award: Best Actress- Jennifer Connelly\n\nBest Supporting Actor- John C. Reilly\n\nBest Screenplay- Rafael Yglesias\n\nBest Score- Angelo Badalamenti\n\nTeen Choice Awards (2005)\n\nTeen Choice Award: Choice Summer Movie\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952983", "title": "Leaders of Ovamboland", "text": "Leaders of Ovamboland\n\nOvamboland, or Ovambo, was a Bantustan or \"homeland\" in South West Africa set aside for the Ovambo people during the apartheid period.\n\nCDA - Christian Democratic Action for Social Justice\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952986", "title": "Geronimo Stilton", "text": "Geronimo Stilton\n\nGeronimo Stilton is an Italian children's book series. Although the series credits its title character as the author, the true author is Elisabetta Dami. On older novels, the copyright is issued to a pseudonym \"Geronimo Stilton\"; this was changed on newer books. The books are intended for readers in the 6–12-year-old age range.\n\nScholastic Corporation has published the English version of the series in the US since February 2004, and the books are published by Sweet Cherry Publishing in the UK.\n\nThe series has sold over 140 million copies worldwide, and with 249 editions it is one of the best-selling book series ever written. The books have been translated into 38 languages.\n\nIn the series, the title character is an anthropomorphic mouse who lives in New Mouse City on Mouse Island. A best-selling author, Geronimo Stilton works as a journalist and editor for the fictional newspaper \"The Rodent's Gazette\".\n\nHe has a younger sister named Thea Stilton, a cousin named Trap Stilton, and a favourite nephew, nine-year-old Benjamin Stilton (Ben). Geronimo is a nervous, mild-mannered mouse who would like nothing better than to live a quiet life, but he keeps getting involved in faraway adventures with Thea, Trap, and Benjamin, and sometimes Aunt Sweetfur. The books are written as though they are autobiographical adventure stories.\n\nPapercutz obtained the rights to publish English translations of the graphic novels of Geronimo Stilton. These retain some of the original names of the characters that were changed in the storybooks translated by Scholastic. Will this stay? For example, the English translations of the graphic novels by Papercutz continue to use the names \"Patty Spring\" and \"Pandora\", while the storybooks by Scholastic changed these names to Petunia Pretty Paws and Bugsy Wugsy, respectively.\n\nThe Stilton family\n\nGeronimo Stilton — Geronimo is a rodent that lives in a city called New Mouse City. He is the publisher of the newspaper company, \"The Rodent's Gazette.\" Geronimo likes to spend his time reading books and enjoys peace and quiet. He doesn't like to have adventures, but in many books his friends and family force him to do so. He is also a 00 Agent, codenamed 00G. \n\nThea Stilton — Thea is Geronimo's adventurous younger sister and the special correspondent for \"The Rodent's Gazette\". For a time, Thea taught a journalism class at whale island university, and while there she met five mouselets. These mouselets, Pamela, Paulina, Violette, Colette, and Nicky named themselves the Thea sisters, after their favorite teacher, Thea Stilton. She flies the team in her metamouse, which can turn into a submarine, boat, and plane to locations that Thea, Trap, Benjamin, and Geronimo are exploring for an article in \"The Rodent's Gazette\". Thea is always ready to jump into action.\n\nTrap Stilton — Geronimo and Thea's cousin. He sometimes travels along with Geronimo when he's called on. Trap is a joker and loves to play tricks on others, especially Geronimo who he considers to be gullible. Still, he has a big heart and doesn't play jokes to be mean.\n\nBenjamin (Ben) Stilton — Geronimo and Thea's young nephew.\n\nThe Paws family\n\nGrandfather Paws — Very well-versed in natural sciences, he once traveled the world in a search of a very rare butterfly.\n\nGrandmother Paws — As a young mouselet, she traveled all over the world when airplanes were not yet in existence.\n\nTeddy Paws — Son of Grandfather and Grandmother Paws. He runs the Paws Farm along with his brother, Bobby.\n\nJenny Littlepaws — Teddy's wife. She's an exceptional cook. The Paws really liked her Sweet Tooth Cake.\n\nTom Paws — Son of Teddy and Jenny. He likes to work with his father and has inherited the passion for natural science.\n\nLucy Valley — Tom's wife. She grows all kinds of plants.\n\nLilly, Lally, and Lolly Paws — Daughters of Lucy and Tom. Lilly is five years old and helps her mother in the garden. Lally is seven years old and loves horseback riding. Lolly is eleven years and wants to go traveling.\n\nBobby Paws — Son of Grandfather and Grandmother Paws, also runs the Paws Farm with his brother, Teddy.\n\nSuzy Rattella — Bobby's wife. She works for the Marine Center in New Mouse City.\n\nPetunia Pretty Paws — Daughter of Bobby and Suzy, Wolfie's twin sister. She is a TV reporter and travels around the world to save environments. Geronimo has a crush on her.\n\nWolfgang Wild Paws — Son of Bobby and Suzy and Petunia's twin brother. He is a TV producer and like his sister travels around the world to save environments.\n\nFurry Paws — Daughter of Bobby and Suzy, sister of Petunia and Wolfie. She is Bugsy and Slugsy's mother.\n\nJohn Wugsy — Furry's Husband. He loves living in the country and taking long bike rides.\n\nBugsy Wugsy — Daughter of John and Furry. She wants to save the environment like her aunt Petunia. She is Benjamin Stilton's best friend.\n\nSlugsy Wugsy — Son of John and Furry and Bugsy's little brother.\n\nThe Stingysnout family\n\nSamuel S. Stingysnout — Geronimo's uncle. He wakes up early to read his neighbor's newspaper.\n\nStevie and Ivy Stingysnout — Samuel's son and daughter.\n\nHoarden Accounts — Ivy's husband.\n\nPenniford and Savanna — Ivy's children, Samuel's niece and nephew.\n\nChintzina — Samuel's younger sister.\n\nThriftella and Worthington — twin brother and sister and Stevie's cousins.\n\nZelda — Stevie's journalist cousin.\n\nMichael Misermouse — Samuel's cousin and an antiques dealer.\n\nFrugella — Michael's sister and Samuel's cousin.\n\nGrandpa Cheaperly — Samuel's father.\n\nGrandma Cheaperly — Samuel's mother.\n\nThe Cacklefur family\n\nCreepella Von Cacklefur — An enchanting and mysterious mouse. She is a special effects designer for scary films and haunted houses. Creepella has a pet bat named Bitewing. She has a crush on Geronimo Stilton.\n\nBoris Von Cacklefur — Creepella's father. He runs the Fabumouse Fumerals, a funeral home. His hobbies are writing romantic poetry and painting graveyard scenes. Boris is in love with Tina Spicytail, Geronimo's grandfather's cook.\n\nBoneham — the butler of the Cacklefur family.\n\nChef Stewrat — The Cackelfur family cook. He loves opera and dreams of selling his stew around the world. Stewrat is in love with Madame Latomb.\n\nMadame Latomb — The housekeeper for the Cacklefur family. She plays the violin and collects dolls. Her hairstyle hides her ferocious were-canary. Latomb is in love with Professor Frankenstein.\n\nShivereen — Creepella's niece. She copies Creepella in every way. Shivereen has a pet chameleon named Moldy. She dreams of working in the world of fashion.\n\nSnip and Snap — Twin brothers that are very smart and talented with computers. They are both mean and annoying and exactly alike. They own a collection of tricks to scare guests staying at Cacklefur Castle.\n\nKafka the cockroach — The family's pet cockroach.\n\nThe Cacklefur watch plant — She guards the Cacklefur Castle ferociously. Her nickname is Chompers.\n\nBooey the poltergeist — The ghost of Cacklefur Castle. Poltergeist means he likes to play tricks on everyone.\n\nProfessor Frankenstein — A scientist who studies ancient Egypt expert on mummies and tombs. He's a little clumsy and had many accidents in the lab.\n\nBaby — a baby adopted by the Cacklefurs.\n\n\nThe Thea Sisters- They are five mouselets that are in Thea's journalism class. They named their group after their teacher and Thea is grateful.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of April 2018, 20 English translations of the graphic novels have been published.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe characters of Geronimo Stilton also used their other names from the second to the sixth novel.\n\nThe Secret of the Sphinx:\n\nThe Coliseum Con:\n\nFollowing the Trail of Marco Polo:\n\nThe Great Ice Age:\n\nWho Stole the Mona Lisa?:\n\nThere are also audio-cassette and CD versions of the Geronimo Stilton books published by Scholastic Audio Books. There are three stories in the first three collections (1–3, 4–6, 7–9), book 10 is sold by itself, and the remaining books are sold in pairs (11–12, 13–14, 15–16, 17–18, 20–21, 22 and 24, 25–26). Books 1 through 10 are read by Edward Herrmann. Books 11–18, 20–22 and 24, and 25–26 are read by Bill Lobley.\n\nAn animated series of the same name debuted in Italy on 15 September 2009. The show ran for 78 episodes across three seasons (26 episodes for each season) with the series finale airing on 28 February 2017.\n\nIn 2016, Oregon Children's Theatre produced \"Geronimo Stilton: Mouse in Space\", a world-premiere adaptation of \"Mouse in Space!\" by John Maclay, and the first live-action production of Geronimo Stilton media in the United States. The production is set to tour in Canada in 2018.\n\nThe \"Kingdom of Fantasy\" series has been developed into a live show, which has been performed in Spanish in Barcelona, Spain, in Dutch in The Netherlands, in Dutch/Flemish in Belgium, and in both English and French in Montreal, Canada.\n\nPapercutz has been publishing Geronimo Stilton graphic novels since 2009; they have published a line of Thea Stilton graphic novels since 2013.\n\nSony Computer Entertainment partnered with Virtual Toys to develop two video games based on the series for PlayStation Portable. The first, \"Geronimo Stilton in the Kingdom of Fantasy\", was released in Europe on 3 November 2011. The follow-up, \"Geronimo Stilton: Return to the Kingdom of Fantasy\", was released in the continent on 31 October 2012. In North America, both titles were released exclusively on the PlayStation Store on 16 July 2013.\n\nThe fictional \"The Rodent's Gazette\" is Geronimo Stilton's most \"famouse\" newspaper in New Mouse City. It is updated every few months, with stories based on Geronimo Stilton's latest books and adventures. It is also the official Geronimo Stilton website for English readers.\n\nThe editors at Scholastic have stopped writing more top stories since early 2006. The \"Book Reviews\" section of the site is still being updated with summaries, book covers, and reviews about each of Geronimo's latest adventures.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953004", "title": "Biernat of Lublin", "text": "Biernat of Lublin\n\nBiernat of Lublin (Polish: \"Biernat z Lublina\", Latin \"Bernardus Lublinius\", ca. 1465 – after 1529) was a Polish poet, fabulist, translator and physician. He was one of the first Polish-language writers known by name, and the most interesting of the earliest ones. He expressed plebeian, Renaissance and religiously liberal opinions.\n\nBiernat wrote the first book printed in the Polish language: printed in 1513, in Kraków at Poland's first printing establishment, operated by Florian Ungler—a prayer-book, \"Raj duszny\" (\"Hortulus Animae\", Eden of the Soul).\n\nBiernat also penned the first secular work in Polish literature: a collection of verse fables, plebeian and anticlerical in nature: \"Żywot Ezopa Fryga\" (The Life of Aesop the Phrygian), 1522.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953015", "title": "Young Wizards", "text": "Young Wizards\n\nYoung Wizards is a series of novels by Diane Duane.\n\nThe Young Wizards series presently consists of eleven books, focusing on the adventures of two young wizards named Nita and Kit. Each novel pits Nita and Kit against the \"Lone Power\", an entity ultimately bent on the destruction of the entire universe. The series began in 1983 with the book \"So You Want to Be a Wizard\", which told the story of their first experiences with wizardry. In 1997, Duane began a spin-off, the Feline Wizards series, which takes place in the same universe, but with different protagonists.\n\nThis series incorporates elements of fantasy, science fiction, and religion. The series deals with issues such as death, sacrifice, and redemption.\n\nA short story within the same universe, \"Uptown Local\", was originally published as part of Jane Yolen's \"Dragons and Dreams\" anthology; it has also been included in the 20th anniversary edition of \"So You Want to Be a Wizard\" and as part of an ebook, \"Uptown Local and Other Interventions\".\n\n\"Interim Errantry\" is a collection of three stories set between \"A Wizard of Mars\" and \"Games Wizards Play\": The Hallowe'en novella \"Not on My Patch,\" the Christmas novelette \"How Lovely Are Thy Branches,\" and the novel \"Lifeboats\".\n\nA short story \"Not on My Patch\" was released in October 2011. The story was scheduled to be published together with other short stories in late 2012 in a one-story-per-month anthology entitled \"The Wizards’ Year\".\n\nOn February 2, 2016, Duane released the tenth novel in the series, Games Wizards Play, involving a tournament called \"The Invitational\", where hundreds of wizards compete all-out for a year long apprenticeship under Earth's Planetary Wizard.\n\nThree other books within the Young Wizards universe are \"On Ordeal: Roshaun ke Nelaid\", \n\"On Ordeal: Mamvish fsh Wimsih\",\nand \"On Ordeal: Ronan Nolan Jnr.\"\nEach book focuses on a wizard and their first trial against the Lone Power. The first book's subject is a humanoid prince who first appeared in \"Wizard's Holiday\"; the second's is a saurian Species Archivist (a wizard who specializes in relocating endangered species to places where they can thrive) who first appeared in \"A Wizard of Mars\"; and the third is about Ronan, a young human wizard whom Nita meets during the events of \"A Wizard Abroad\".\nAll three are part of the \"Interim Errantry: On Ordeal\" series, and have since been published digitally as a single volume titled \"Interim Errantry 2: On Ordeal\". \n\nThe official title of book 12 has yet to be released, but in a 2012 interview with GeekDads, Diane Duane used the working title, \"Wizardry in Shadow\".\n\nThree other books are not strictly in the Young Wizards series, but take place in the same setting:\n\nAll three were released as eBooks available from Diane Duane's web store in December 2017.\n\n\"Short stories about adult wizards in the same setting.\"\n\nThe series shows the influence of many religious and mythological tropes from around the world, and the traits of traditional angels and various gods or heroes of ancient mythology are united in semi-divine, demiurgic beings referred to as the Powers that Be. The Powers exist outside of mortal time, capable of manifesting themselves anywhere in the universe, at any point in time. They were created by a being known only as \"the One\" (the source of all energy, wizardry, and creative forces in all of the universes) and are portrayed as Its active assistants in the business of creating and maintaining the universe.\n\nDuring the process of Creation, one of the Powers that Be—originally described as the greatest and most glorious of Powers, second only to the One—went apart from the others and invented the \"gift\" of death (often referred to in the series under the blanket term of entropy,) turning it loose in the universe and thus corrupting or subverting much work done by the other Powers. This rebellious (or at least extremely self-willed) being became known as the Lone Power, and as a result of Its destructive behavior was cast out of the creative order by the One. It has since manifested in many avatars or alternate forms throughout the universe. Its incarnations roam the multiverse, seeking new species to trick into accepting Its \"gift\". When a species becomes sentient, a process called \"The Choice\" begins, during which the Lone Power appears and offers the species the opportunity to support a lifestyle or course of action which may seem tempting but ultimately serves entropy (not coincidentally, the Lone Power is often compared to, or even equated to, The Devil). However, the species also has the opportunity to reject the offered \"gift\" and choose to fight against entropic behavior—but that does not mean that the species has necessarily chosen to fight against pain, death, and evil. The Lone Power is conniving and devious, so to make the right Choice is difficult. Rejecting the Choice outright can sometimes lead to suffering for the entire species.\n\nHumanity's Choice appears to have ties to the Biblical story of creation involving Adam and Eve eating the fruit from the tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, with the Lone Power being \"behind\" the purported actions of the serpent.\n\nWhen involved in a Choice, the Lone Power tends to work subtly, controlling minds or events to result in its \"gift\" being accepted. It sometimes appears physically when becoming involved in the Choice process, though almost always in some kind of disguise.\n\nOne of the central themes of the series, however, is the idea that the Lone Power truly wants to return to the light, and in some senses already has due to events in the third book, \"High Wizardry\". However, because the Powers primarily exist outside of time the reconciliation of the single \"projection\" of the Lone Power does nothing to change other projections of the Lone Power created throughout the eons, leading to further conflict.\n\nTo combat the Lone Power, the One created wizards. Wizards manifest their power through The Speech, which allows them to describe the desired effects of the wizardry exactly. \"It is the language of the Universe.\" Non-wizards can learn the Speech, but cannot effect change using it.\n\nThe Powers that Be choose individuals who have the potential to become wizards. The selection is often motivated by the need for a particular individual to solve a particular problem. Once a person has been offered the opportunity to become a wizard, if he or she decides to accept it, that person will be offered the \"Wizard's Oath\"—a pledge to fight entropy wherever it may be found.\n\nIf the potential wizard takes the Oath, the event is immediately followed by an Ordeal—a period during which the wizard may combat the Lone Power directly, or perform some other difficult task. The Ordeal is typically when a Wizard is at the peak of his or her power. The younger they are when they take the Oath the more power they will possess and the greater their Ordeal will be. They will slowly lose power as they get older, though they will gain experience and finesse in return. Not all Ordeals are successful, however, and the result of being unprepared or careless during Ordeal is often death. Even if the Ordeal is successful, it may involve the new Wizard giving their life to stop the Lone Power, saving a species or planet. (Ordeals are said to account for a certain percentage of what the real world perceives as \"missing children\".)\n\nEvery wizard has access to the Wizard's Manual, a book written in the Speech that gives the reader as much information about the business of wizardry and spells as he or she requires or is capable of handling. The Manual can take many forms and is often tailored to the race and personality of the wizard in question. Water-dwelling wizards, such as dolphins and whales, use the Sea itself as their Manual, drawing answers for their questions out of the songs of the ocean, aka the \"\"Heart of the Sea\"\". Cat wizards have a similar method of accessing the Manual called \"The Whispering\". Human wizards tend to use books as the Manual, although some hear voices like the cats and whales, and Irish wizards memorize the information. Recent advances in technology have allowed some wizards to use digital versions of the Manual, such as laptops and, more recently, iPod variations (called WizPods).\n\nJuanita \"Nita\" Louise Callahan begins the series in junior high school as a typical \"book-nerd\" who is often bullied by stronger girls. As the series goes on, she deals with such issues as parents, romance, death, sex, and social bullying. She lives at home with her parents and her genius kid sister Dairine. She is often called \"Neets.\" She loves horse books and listens to Journey (according to \"High Wizardry\"). Her wizardly specialty initially seems to be the art of dealing with plants and the living world (sometimes referred to as organic wizardry), but later on shifts more toward wizardly theory and manipulation of kernels—cores of energy found at the center of every person, planet and universe that act as replicable centers for major wizardries. Recent events have suggested that Nita may be switching specialties again, this time into precognition and oracular dreaming, also developing a connection with water.\n\nThe third book, High Wizardry, briefly deals with the possibility that Nita and Kit have feelings for each other. In the 9th installment, \"A Wizard of Mars\", Nita admits that she may be jealous of Aurilelde, a female alien that Kit seems to be attracted to. Later, in the heat of the moment, while fighting with the alien princess, she calls Kit her \"boyfriend,\" though she and Kit are not officially \"together\" until the end of the novel. In the process, she learns that Kit was not attracted to Aurilelde, but her, in a complicated series of events.\n\nNita has a brief relationship with the Irish wizard Ronan in \"A Wizard Abroad\", although when he reappears in \"Wizards at War\", there isn't any sort of tension.\n\nChristopher \"Kit\" Kellen Rodriguez also starts the series in junior high school, dealing with the issue of becoming a responsible adult. Despite being one year younger than Nita, Kit is usually the more mature member of the pair. Kit is in Nita's grade in school, having skipped a grade. His birthday is September 25. In the first book, he often gets teased because of his Spanish accent and his height, but after their Ordeal, matters improve. Kit also lives at his home in Nita's neighborhood with his parents, his older sister Carmela, and his dog Ponch. The oldest child in his family, Helena, lives at college. Kit is skilled with mechanical objects and sometimes, through Ponch, he is skilled in 'scent'. Kit found his Manual in a used bookstore in NYC.\n\nIn \"A Wizard of Mars\", Kit admits to himself that he is attracted to Nita, and that he may have never pursued his feelings because he was afraid of going beyond their friendship. This occurs after he finds himself strangely attracted to the Martian princess Aurilelde, who reminds Kit slightly of Nita when he meets her. His affection for the alien is extinguished when he finds out about Aurilelde's ill intentions but finds out that Aurilelde is actually a counterpart of Nita.\n\nDairine \"Dair\" E. Callahan is a brainy child, wise beyond her years. She is known for being obsessed with all things Star Wars and wants to be a Jedi. Although she is three years younger than Nita, she cannot stand it if Nita knows anything that she does not. She figures out that Nita has odd powers, finds out about wizardry, and in \"High Wizardry\" becomes a wizard herself, enormously powerful and prematurely skilled, though, as with all wizards, her sheer power diminishes with time. Her Ordeal is a pivotal moment in the history of the universe, as she not only temporarily becomes the Manual, but helps to redeem the Lone Power. Dairine's skill comes through computers, and she is mentally connected to a race of silicon beings and their sentient planet. She calls her computer (which is also her Manual) Spot. There is speculation that she has romantic feelings for Roshaun. According to the New Millennial Edition of \"High Wizardry\", her birthday is October 20, 1997.\n\nThe Lone Power is the chief antagonist of the series, and appears in various avatars and/or as Itself in each book. It is named as, \"the Witherer, the Kindler of Wildfires, the one who decreed darkness, the Starsnuffer,\" (\"So You Want to Be a Wizard\" -p238). It is a renegade Power who invented entropy in all its manifestations, including death. Wizards exist in order to fight Its influence, with varying degrees of success. Addressed formally as \"Fairest and Fallen\", The Lone Power used to be one of the 'good' Powers That Be (PTB), but Its actions were regarded as 'evil' and It fell from grace.\n\nThroughout the series, The Lone Power, as a result of Its actions, deeds, and history, is often equated to Satan, an evil entity in most monotheistic religions. For example, in the second book of the series, Nita is asked if she attained her wizardry through a deal with the Devil, to which she responds \"Kit and I are the \"last\" people \"that\" One wants anything to do with.\"\n\nTom B. Swale and Carl J. Romeo are Senior Wizards who appear in each book. Originally introduced as local Advisories, they are promoted to Senior between the events of the first and second novels. They live together in the same suburb as Nita, Kit and Dairine, and generally appear in order to advise or to correct them. Tom is a writer of spells and fiction, while Carl sells commercial airtime in television. His wizardly specialisation appears to be in time and its manipulation. Tom and Carl are wise, tolerant, and funny; Nita frequently refers to them as examples of adult wizardry.\n\nRonan Nolan, Jr is a wizard who Nita meets during the events of \"A Wizard Abroad\". His body is the host of the One's Champion and he also possesses the Spear Luin (Spear of Light), making him extremely magically powerful until the One's Champion has to leave him in \"Wizards at War\". He is one of the main characters in \"Wizards at War\" and is Nita's love interest in \"A Wizard Abroad\", eventually kissing her. On his Ordeal he 'took the sea in', briefly controlling an entire portion of the ocean, essentially becoming it. In \"Wizards at War\", he becomes a love interest of Kit's sister, Carmela, a theme that continues in \"A Wizard of Mars\".\n\nEventually the tension between him and Nita decreases after Nita says that Carmela is \"all his\" in \"Wizards at War\".\n\nDarryl McAllister is introduced in \"A Wizard Alone\" and appears briefly in \"Wizards at War\". In \"A Wizard Alone\", Kit is sent to help Darryl in his Ordeal. He soon learns that Darryl is autistic and that his Ordeal is being deliberately sabotaged by the Lone Power. Utilizing Ponch's ability to \"walk\" through universes, Kit enters Darryl's mind to assist him in the Ordeal, but overexposure causes Kit to exhibit antisocial tendencies and mood swings picked up from Darryl himself. Nita, however, discovers that Darryl is an Abdal—a figure of tremendous power and a conduit for goodness from the One—and that he is actually tricking the Lone One, making him think that he's in control so that Darryl can trap him in a self-created universe and never again let him out. Nita and Kit put a stop to the cycle by reaching out to Darryl together, who swears to the Lone One that he will remain in the universe if the Lone One returns to it someday, and then circumvents the Ordeal by taking advantage of his Abdal ability to be in two places at once. In the original version, Darryl uses this ability to split his autistic \"self\" and leaves it behind in the universe he created, so that the Lone Power is forever trapped there with the autistic Darryl. In the new \"Young Millennium\" Revised Editions, this was changed so that a mirrored version of Darryl watches over the Lone Power. Darryl continues to be autistic for the remainder of the series (in the revised editions) although he regains his coping abilities. Though the Lone Power itself is not trapped, the manifestation targeting Darryl is forever locked away from the rest of the universes.\n\nS'reee is the whale wizard who acts as the Senior for Earth's oceans. She has a special relationship with Nita, who saves her life in \"Deep Wizardry\". In DW she asks Nita and Kit for help performing the Song of the Twelve, a complex wizardly ritual. She is thrust into responsibility very young after the death of her mentor, but in later books she seems to be more confident with her duties. S'reee helps Kit implement a 'cleanup' wizardry to clean the waters surrounding Manhattan at the beginning of \"The Wizard's Dilemma\". She appears briefly in \"Wizards at War\". In \"A Wizard of Mars\", during a talk with Nita, it was said that S'reee was dating another whale who is a food critic.\n\nRoshaun ke Nelaid am Seriv am Teliuyve am Meseph am Veliz am Teriaunst am det Nuiiliat (sometimes am det Wellakhit) is a haughty humanoid alien prince from the planet Wellakh. He is first featured in \"Wizard's Holiday\" and remains a prominent character until his disappearance in \"Wizards at War\". He is one of the exchange students from the wizardly exchange program and his skills focus on stars. He has/had a \"sort of friendship\" with Dairine; though it is unclear what these feelings were, they seem to be of a romantic nature.\n\nSker'ret is one of the exchange students in \"Wizard's Holiday\". His species, the Rirhait, resemble giant metal centipedes and have physiologies that allow them to eat almost anything. Sker'ret is skilled with machinery and teleportation wizardry. He is one of the children of the Stationmaster of the Crossings on Rirhath B, and takes over the position for a time during the wizards' war.\n\nFilifermanhathrhumneits'elhhessaifnth or \"Filif\" is one of the exchange students in \"Wizard's Holiday\". The program caused him enormous culture shock, because Filif is not just an alien wizard: he is an alien wizard shaped like a Christmas tree, so learning about vegetarianism as an exception to general human diets was like being in a world full of cannibals.\n\nBut culture clashes aside, Filif is a very personable sort of individual: curious, friendly, and very easy-going. He takes almost everything in stride and is eager to learn about human culture. His favorite discoveries so far are baseball hats and bright colors, even if his fashion sense is, to put it politely, nonexistent. He calls them \"decorations\" and prefers bright orange swim trunks and Victoria's Secret lingerie. He is very magically powerful and excels at writing new spells, as well as designing illusions.\n\nPralaya is a wizard from a different universe that Nita meets while experimenting with kernels in \"The Wizard's Dilemma\". He bears much resemblance to an otter, though with six legs and antennae. Nita meets him while retrieving the kernel of a \"practice universe\" from a canal. Later in the story, he is possessed by the Lone Power and presents Nita with the deal to give up her powers in order to save her mother's life. When Nita tells Pralaya that the Lone Power had been using his body, It kills him.\n\nQuelt is the Alaalid that Nita and Kit visit during the excursus in \"Wizard's Holiday\". She is the only wizard of her species (besides Druvah).\n\nPont is an alien that Nita meets in \"The Wizard's Dilemma\" when in the practice universes. He is a plural—one person in multiple bodies—which is apparently normal in his universe. He looks to Nita like five giant blue ball bearings.\n\nHarold Edward Callahan, Nita and Dairine's father. After his wife's death, he grows closer to his daughters and also to the world of wizardry, serving as a comforter and encourager to wizards who are going through a hard time, notably to Filif and Tom in \"Wizard's Holiday\". Harry is a florist and landscape gardener; Nita believes she gets her talents with living things (especially plants) from him. Nita and Dairine inherited their magic powers from his side of the family.\n\nNita and Dairine's late mother, and the focus of \"The Wizard's Dilemma\". A former professional ballerina, Betty passed on both her red hair and her natural grace to Dairine. She passes away sometime between \"The Wizard's Dilemma\" and \"A Wizard Alone\".\n\nKit's sister, a couple of years older than he. She bought a laser dissociator off the Mizarthu shopping network, which she uses to help Nita and Sker'ret defend The Crossings. She is in the process of learning The Speech, despite the fact that she's not a wizard. Once Carmela learns The Speech, she spends most of her time watching TV from across the galaxy, and talking to her new alien friends. She seems to have a talent for languages, as she was learning Japanese before taking up the study of The Speech, and presumably knows Spanish as well. She helps Dairine deal with the exchange wizards in \"Wizard's Holiday\". In \"Wizards at War\" Carmela also manages to free the entire group when they are captured at a crucial moment. During \"A Wizard of Mars\" she assists in the translation of an ancient text found in a cavern on Mars.\n\nKit's oldest sister. She is away attending college and lives there. She originally believed that Kit had made a deal with the devil. As of \"A Wizard of Mars\", she believes he is a mutant.\n\nRobert Millman is the school therapist; he first appears in \"A Wizard Alone\" to help Nita and, later, Dairine, with their mother's death. Although he is not himself a wizard, he knows of wizards and so recognizes Nita for what she is. Later, in \"Wizards at War\", he helps by arranging for them to get time off from school.\n\nPoncho (Kit's black Labrador/Border Collie mix) is an average dog. More worried about food (and squirrels) than anything else, Ponch accompanies Kit and Nita on some of their adventures. As the series progresses it is obvious that something is different about Ponch; at the beginning of the series, he is featured as a minor character, mostly a source of canine comic relief, but further on his character is developed into more of a supporting role and partner to Kit. He starts to find and even create alternate universes (his favorite being a squirrel universe) and eventually is revealed to be a canine Power, namely the canine version of the One, according to the Transcendent Pig. After this, Kit mourns his loss, only to have a stray dog come up to him and reveal that Ponch is inside all dogs now.\n\nMachu Picchu is an irascible scarlet macaw owned by Tom and Carl. Extremely grumpy and given to showing off, she can also tell the future: her advice saves Nita and Kit in all of the first three books. In \"High Wizardry\" she accompanies Nita and Kit to find Dairine, and they discover that Peach is actually an avatar of the Winged Defender, or The One's Champion, one of the Powers that Be. Nita recognises Peach in Ronan in \"A Wizard Abroad\".\n\nKhairelikoblepharehglukumeilichephreidosd'enagouni, nicknamed Fred by Kit from the syllable \"phreid\" in his name, is a white hole who features in \"So You Want to Be a Wizard\". He appears when Nita and Kit do a finding spell to try to retrieve Nita's space pen, and bears a message for Tom and Carl. Fred is the catalyst for Nita and Kit's Ordeal, starting them on a quest to find the Book of Night with Moon; he is comic in his appreciation of the delights of Earth and he becomes good friends with Nita and Kit. At the end of SYWTBAW, he sacrifices himself by converting his mass to light, relighting the moon and allowing Nita and Kit to save Manhattan from an incursion by the Lone Power.\n\ned'Rashtekeresket t'k Gh'shestaesteh, the Master Shark and the Pale Slayer, appears in \"Deep Wizardry\" to play the appropriate role in the Song of the Twelve. He is the master of his species, a great white shark; throughout the book he is both aloof and threatening. Although he frightens Nita, they strike up an unusual friendship. He is dryly funny, although at first Nita doesn't find him so. His role in the song is to devour Nita, as the Silent One; however, at the end of the book, Ed sacrifices himself rather than let Nita die.\n\nInspired by Chinese mythology, this is a being of mysterious origins, first mentioned in \"So You Want to Be a Wizard\" and first seen in \"The Wizard's Dilemma\". He has been called Chao, but it is unclear if that is a personal name or merely an epithet. The Pig is designated as being between mortals and the Powers That Be, more than a mortal but less than a Power, and is Omnipresent though not necessarily Omniscient. However, according to The One's Champion, not even the Powers That Be know where the Pig came from. The purpose the Pig serves is unknown, but it is believed that it knows the meaning of life for an unexplained reason, but it does not just let anyone know. This makes it wizardly custom to immediately ask the Pig the meaning of life upon seeing it. He appears in \"Wizards at War\" as well.\n\nSpot is Dairine's sentient Apple computer, originally an Apple IIc variant, but later appearing to be a Macintosh PowerBook, which also serves as her wizard's manual. He is shy around others, but (according to Dairine) is quite talkative in one-on-one conversations with her. He also has the power to upgrade himself, changing his platform and appearance as the series progresses to keep up with contemporary technology. After getting an upgrade from his siblings (Dairine's 'children'), he seems to develop a sense of the future.\n\nTime in the Young Wizard series does not progress in a straightforward manner, and in fact there is some disagreement among fans as to the chronology of events in the series. For example, in \"So You Want to Be a Wizard\", Carmela is fifteen, Nita is thirteen, Kit twelve, and Dairine eleven. By \"Wizard's Holiday\", they should have all aged two years, since two summer vacations (\"Deep Wizardry\" and \"A Wizard Abroad\") have passed. However, Nita progresses only one grade from \"High Wizardry\" to \"The Wizard's Dilemma\", which means that either \"Deep Wizardry\" and \"A Wizard Abroad\" take place in the same summer, or Nita and the other characters got held back in school. Also, in \"A Wizard Alone\" Nita mentions that she has \"a couple of years' more of experience\" at wizardry than Dairine, which would imply that Nita had already been a wizard for two years before Dairine took her Oath. In \"Wizard's Holiday\", Dairine says she and Spot have been \"working together\" for a couple years. \"Wizards at War\" puts Nita's age at fourteen. In \"High Wizardry\", Dairine is eleven. In the latest book, \"A Wizard of Mars\", Dairine's dad says about her, \"She's only eleven!\"\n\nThe books, however, are always set in the year of publication. Few dates are ever given, but \"Deep Wizardry\" explicitly says that the events occur in 1985 while \"High Wizardry,\" set two months later, gives the eleven-year-old Dairine a 1978 birthdate. The discrepancy in time is particularly noticeable when it comes to computers; in \"High Wizardry\" Nita's family obtains a brand new \"Apple IIIc+,\" apparently modelled on the Apple IIc+ of 1988, while less than a year or two later in \"Wizard's Holiday\" Dairine's computer Spot is apparently imitating an Apple Titanium PowerBook.\n\nEven more obviously, in the 2005 podcast version of the 1986 short story \"Uptown Local,\" Duane changes a line so that one minor character is using an iPod, and in \"Wizards at War\" a fellow wizard shows off his specialized manual known as a WizPod. In the same book, Nita thinks about the Manhattan skyline when someone refers to recent troubles, signifying that it takes place after 9/11. Also in \"Wizards at War\", the Lone Power refers to \"a tower or two crumbling\" in his gloating speech. The sliding scale is similar to those used in the James Bond films, DC Comics and Marvel comics.\n\nIn August 2012, Diane Duane released \"The New Millennium Edition\" of \"So You Want To Be a Wizard\". This sets the events of that book firmly in 2008. The New Millennium Editions are intended to repair the \"very broken, inconsistent and frankly dysfunctional timeline\" which was making it hard for the series to find new readers. The new timeline sees all the first nine books happen over a span of about 3 years, as Dairine is said to be 11 in book 1, and she is now said to be 13 in book 9. \nAll nine books are now available as New Millennium Editions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953025", "title": "Michael Morley (musician)", "text": "Michael Morley (musician)\n\nMichael Morley is an experimental musician and visual artist from New Zealand.\n\nMorley sings and plays guitar and laptop as a member of The Dead C, but also records on his own (and with collaborators) as Gate. Earlier, in the 1980s, Morley was a member of Wreck Small Speakers On Expensive Stereos.\n\nMorley founded the Precious Metal label sometime in the late 1980s to document, first on cassette and later LP and CD, his own work as Gate. Most of the releases on Precious Metal were limited to very small quantities.\n\nMorley currently teaches at Otago Polytechnic School of Art in Dunedin.\n\na partial Gate discography;<BR>\ntitle, format, label, country\n\n"}
{"id": "1953032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953032", "title": "Leaders of Damaraland", "text": "Leaders of Damaraland\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953034", "title": "Gymnema sylvestre", "text": "Gymnema sylvestre\n\nGymnema sylvestre is a perennial woody vine native to tropical Asia, China, the Arabian Peninsula, Africa, and Australia. It has been used in Ayurvedic medicine. Common names include gymnema, Australian cowplant, and Periploca of the woods, and the Hindi term \"gurmar\", which means \"sugar destroyer\".\n\nThe leaves and extracts contain gymnemic acids, the major bioactive constituents that interact with taste receptors on the tongue to temporarily suppress the taste of sweetness.\n\nThe plant is a climber with leaves having soft hairs on the upper surface. The leaves are elongated-oval in shape. It has a small, yellow, umbelliferous inflorescence that is produced throughout the year.\n\n\"Gymnema sylvestre\" has a long history of use in herbal medicine and a broad range of therapeutic properties.\n\nIts leaves contain triterpenoid saponins, flavonols, and gurmarin. The major biologically active plant molecules are gymnemic acids, a class of triterpenoid saponins, which have the effect of suppressing the taste of sweetness on the tongue from sucrose (sugar), stevia, xylitol, and artificial sweeteners such as aspartame.\n\nThe sweet-blocking effect of \"G. sylvestre\" lasts from 15 to 50 minutes and may even persist for several hours. Gymnemic acids apparently have no long-term effects on taste and they do not influence bitter, salty, or sour taste perception.\n\nGynnemic acid compounds in \"Gymnema sylvestre\" can also attach to receptors on the intestinal walls, helping to reduce absorption of sugar molecules in the gut. This process can lower blood sugar and promote insulin secretion and release.\n\n\n\"Gymnema\" derives from the Greek words \"gymnos\" (γυμνὀς) and \"nēma\" (νῆμα) meaning \"naked\" and \"thread\", respectively; the species epitheton \"sylvestre\" means \"of the forest\" in Latin.\n\nThe Hindi and Urdu name \"gurmar\", Sanskrit \"madhunashini\", Malayalam \"chakkarakolli\", and Telugu \"podapatri\", literally mean \"sugar destroyer\". (Sanskrit) \"meshasringa\" translates as \"ram's horn\", a name given to the plant due to the shape of its fruits.\n"}
{"id": "1953035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953035", "title": "High on Fire", "text": "High on Fire\n\nHigh on Fire is an American sludge metal band from Oakland, California, that was formed in 1998. Matt Pike, the band's frontman and founder, also plays guitar for the doom metal band Sleep. The band won the 2019 Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance with their song \"Electric Messiah.\"\n\nHigh on Fire was founded in 1998 by Sleep guitarist Matt Pike, drummer Des Kensel, and bassist George Rice (from Dear Deceased, who originally auditioned to be the band's vocalist). The band's first full-length album \"The Art of Self Defense\" was released on 12th Records, and released later on Man's Ruin Records. (The album would later be re-released by Tee Pee Records, with two bonus tracks, as Man's Ruin Records had become defunct.)\n\nIn 2001, High on Fire signed a record deal with Relapse Records and recorded the album \"Surrounded by Thieves\". The album was released on May 28, 2002. After the tours promoting \"Surrounded by Thieves\", bassist George Rice left the band and was replaced by ex-Melvins/Thrones bassist Joe Preston.\n\nThe band's next album, 2005's \"Blessed Black Wings\", was largely written by Pike and Kensel before the recording of the album took place. The album was produced by Steve Albini, and was released on February 1, 2005. A music video was produced for the song \"Devilution.\" While \ntouring with Goatwhore and Watch Them Die to promote \"Blessed Black Wings\", Joe Preston left the band for undisclosed reasons, and was temporarily replaced by Zeke bassist Jeff Matz. Matz finished the tour with High on Fire and became a full-time member during the recording of \"Death Is This Communion\". \"Death Is This Communion\" was released on September 18, 2007 (September 10, in Europe).\n\nAfter \"Death is This Communion\" was released, High on Fire played a small string of Northwest shows to promote it. The band did a headline tour of North America in September and October 2007, with support from the Japanese post-rock band Mono, along with Panthers and Coliseum. High on Fire also played on 2008's Gigantour, which was followed by a North American tour with the bands Opeth, Baroness, and Nachtmystium.\n\nOn December 17, 2008, High on Fire signed a recording deal with Koch Records. On August 1, 2009, it was announced that a new album would be recorded with producer Greg Fidelman. Later that month, following the news of the new album, High on Fire announced a tour with Mastodon, Dethklok, and Converge. The tour spanned from October 2 to November 21.\n\nIn August 2009, the band went into post-production of the follow-up to \"Death Is This Communion\" at The Pass Studios in Los Angeles. The album artwork for the new album was released on January 7, 2010. On January 15, following the release of the album artwork, the song Frost Hammer was posted on the band's Myspace page, and a video for the song was released on March 16, 2010. High on Fire's fifth album \"Snakes for the Divine\" was formally released on February 23, 2010.\n\nIn March 2010, the band announced a headlining U.S. tour to promote the album; supporting bands for the tour include Priestess, Black Cobra, and Bison B.C.. On April 6, 2010, the band announced they would be opening for Metallica for eight European shows.\n\nIn 2010, the band was confirmed as being part of the soundtrack for Namco Bandai Games' 2010 remake of Splatterhouse.\nOn April 3, 2012, High on Fire released their sixth studio album, \"De Vermis Mysteriis\". Metalsucks.net reviews editor Sammy O'Hagar argued that the band has \"rebounded in epic fashion\" since their last album, and that \"Even for a band as esteemed as High on Fire, [\"De Vermis Mysteriis\"] is a career high point.\"\n\nHigh on Fire was scheduled to play the 2012 Mayhem Festival but dropped off the tour due to Matt Pike's health. Matt Pike returned to the band and they once again began touring in November 2012.\n\nHigh on Fire's album \"Luminiferous\" became available in full for free streaming as a preview with NPR music on June 7, 2015, with the official release of the album nine days later on June 16. \"Luminiferous\" is the second High on Fire album in a row produced by Converge guitarist Kurt Ballou. NPR reviewer Adrien Begrand credits Kurt Ballou with \"helping rejuvenate the band's sound\" on their previous album, and praises the album as evidence of High on Fire's consistency, fueled by the \"right combination of adherence to formula and subtle experimentation.\" Dan Epstein, writing for Rolling Stone, concurs that \"one could definitely make the case that [\"Luminiferous\"] is High on Fire's finest album yet.\"\n\nAt the 61st Grammy Awards held on February 10, 2019, High On Fire won their first Grammy for \"Best Metal Performance\" for their song \"Electric Messiah\".\n\nDrummer and co-founder Des Kensel announced his departure from the band on July 26, 2019. \n\nCurrent\nFormer\n\nTouring Members\nStudio albums\nLive albums\nSingles, EPs and splits\nSingles\nMusic videos\n"}
{"id": "1953038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953038", "title": "Damaraland", "text": "Damaraland\n\nDamaraland was a name given to the north-central part of what later became Namibia, inhabited by the Damaras. It was bounded roughly by Ovamboland in the north, the Namib Desert in the west, the Kalahari Desert in the east, and Windhoek in the south.\n\nIn the 1970s the name Damaraland was revived for a bantustan in South West Africa (present-day Namibia), intended by the apartheid government to be a self-governing homeland for the Damara people. A centrally administered local government was created in 1980. The bantustan Damaraland was situated on the western edge of the territory that had been known as Damaraland in the 19th century.\n\nDamaraland, like other homelands in South West Africa, was abolished in May 1989 at the start of the transition to independence.\n\nThe name Damaraland predates South African control of Namibia, and was described as \"the central portion of German South West Africa\" in the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953045", "title": "Tswanaland", "text": "Tswanaland\n\nTswanaland was a bantustan in South West Africa (present-day Namibia), in the far central eastern area of the territory around the village of Aminuis. It was intended by the apartheid government to be a self-governing homeland for the Tswana people. Unlike all other homelands, it was never implemented that way. The Ovaherero were allowed to stay in the area, and the Tswana remained a minority. Tswanaland nevertheless got an ethnic Tswana, Constance Kgosiemang, as political leader between 1980 and 1989.\n\nTswanaland and all other homelands in South West Africa were abolished in May 1989 at the start of the transition to independence.\n"}
{"id": "1953053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953053", "title": "Leaders of Tswanaland", "text": "Leaders of Tswanaland\n\nDTA – Democratic Turnhalle Alliance\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953062", "title": "Libuše", "text": "Libuše\n\n, Libussa, Libushe or, historically \"Lubossa\", is a legendary ancestor of the Přemyslid dynasty and the Czech people as a whole. According to legend, she was the youngest but wisest of three sisters, who became queen after their father died; she married a ploughman, Přemysl, with whom she founded the Přemyslid dynasty, and prophesied and founded the city of Prague in the 8th century.\n\nLibuše is said to have been the youngest daughter of the equally mythical Czech ruler Krok. The legend goes that she was the wisest of the three sisters, and while her sister Kazi was a healer and Teta was a magician, she had the gift of seeing the future, and was chosen by her father as his successor, to judge over the people. According to legends she prophesied from her castle at Libušín, though later legends say it was Vyšehrad.\n\nLegend says that Libuše came out on a rocky cliff high above the Vltava and prophesied: \"I see a great city whose glory will touch the stars.\" On the site she ordered to build a castle and a town called Prague.\n\nAlthough she proved herself as a wise chieftain, the male part of the tribe was displeased that their ruler was a woman and demanded that she marry, but she had fallen in love with a ploughman, Přemysl. She therefore related a vision in which she saw a farmer with one broken sandal, ploughing a field, or in other versions of the legend, eating from an iron table. She instructed her councilmen to seek out this man by letting a horse loose at a junction; they followed it to the village of Stadice and found Přemysl exactly as she had said (either ploughing a field, or using an iron plough as a makeshift table). The two grandees who found Přemysl brought him to the princely palace where Libuše married him, and Přemysl the Ploughman thus became ruler. They went on to have three sons: Radobyl, Lidomir, and Nezamysl who continued the Přemyslid dynasty in the Czech lands.\n\nIn another legend, she commanded her councillors to found a city at the place where they found a man making the best of use of his teeth at midday. They set off and at midday found a man sawing a block of wood (using his saw's teeth) when everyone else was eating; when they asked him what he was making he replied \"Prah\" (which in Czech means \"threshold\") and so Libuše named the city Prague (Czech: \"Praha\").\n\nThe story of Libuše and Přemysl was recounted in detail in the 12th century by Cosmas of Prague in his \"Chronica Boëmorum\".\n\nAnother early account was included in Jan Dubravius' 1552 chronicle \"Historia regni Bohemiae\", and Johann Karl August Musäus used this and Aeneas Silvius' \"Cardinalis de Bohemarum Origine ac Gestis Historia\" to write his version of the legend as \"Libussa\", which he included in his \"Volksmärchen der Deutschen\" (1782–86).\n\nThe mythical figure of Libuše gave material for several dramatic works, including \"Libussa\", a tragedy by Franz Grillparzer, \"Libuše\", an opera by Bedřich Smetana and \"Pole a palisáda\", a novel by Miloš Urban. She is also featured as a character in Edward Einhorn's play, \"Rudolf II\".\n\nIn 2009, an American-Czech film version of the Libuše and Přemysl story was released under the name \"The Pagan Queen\".\n\nMinor planet 264 Libussa is named in her honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953064", "title": "First Impressions (musical)", "text": "First Impressions (musical)\n\nFirst Impressions is a Broadway musical with music and lyrics by George Weiss, Bo Goldman, and Glenn Paxton, and book by Abe Burrows, who also directed the musical. It is based on Helen Jerome's 1935 stage adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel \"Pride and Prejudice\".\n\nAbe Burrows, who had previously written the books for the successful musicals \"Guys and Dolls\", \"Can-Can\", and \"Say, Darling\", wrote the book for a new musical adaptation of Jane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\". The score was credited to three authors: George Weiss, Robert Goldman, and Glenn Paxton, though composer Jule Styne, who produced the show under the auspices of the \"Jule Styne Organization\", was said to have augmented the score. The score mixes early-19th-century \"period\" music with standard Broadway idioms of the 1950s. The musical was originally titled \"A Perfect Evening\", but before rehearsals began, the show's creators changed it to \"First Impressions\", Austen's original, pre-publication title for \"Pride and Prejudice.\"\n\nThe show was not a success. Burrows thought critics were hard on him because they wondered why a comedy guy would take on a \"tired period drama,\" but he also took some unusual liberties with the story. The musical concentrates more than the novel does on Mrs. Bennet's perspective and on her tireless attempts to marry off her five marriageable daughters despite the family's lack of money. The emphasis on Mrs. Bennet is the result of having cast a star (Hermione Gingold) in what was meant by Austen to be a secondary role.\n\nWhen Jane Austen wrote her first novel, a novel about the Bennet family of Longbourn, she called it First Impressions, but she couldn't find a publisher. However, once \"Sense & Sensibility\", Austen's second novel, became a popular success, T. Egerton of Whitehall, the publisher of \"Sense & Sensibility\", agreed to release First Impressions with a new name: \"Pride & Prejudice\". In this early instance of successful branding, a novel called \"First Impressions\" went nowhere, but given a new title, \"Pride & Prejudice\" quickly became one of the great classics of Western literature.\n\nThe Broadway production premiered at the Alvin Theater, New York City, on March 19, 1959, and played 84 performances. The stars of the original cast were Hermione Gingold (as Mrs. Bennet), Polly Bergen (as Elizabeth Bennet), and Farley Granger (as Mr. Darcy), supported by Phyllis Newman (Jane Bennet), Ellen Hanley (Charlotte Lucas), Christopher Hewett (Mr. Collins), Donald Madden (Charles Bingley), and James Mitchell (Capt. Wickham). Hewett replaced Hiram Sherman after the show's out-of-town tryout, while Hanley replaced Bergen shortly into the run.\n\nAccording to Granger, the musical was beset by a series of disasters, the most notable all involving the frequently dangerous sets. Granger said several dancers were injured during rehearsals and the tryout in New Haven. Moreover, reports Granger, Gingold, and Bergen disliked each other, and Mitchell felt ill-used. Stuart Hodes Mitchell's understudy and one of the injured dancers, says that Granger's account was exaggerated. Hodes also notes that Lucas's several replacements as choreographer included an uncredited Herbert Ross.\n\nFifteen-year-old Lauri Peters, who played Kitty Bennet, left a good enough first impression on Richard Rodgers that he invited her to audition for his next show, \"The Sound of Music\". Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II cast her in the role of Liesl, the eldest daughter, in the 1959 original Broadway production of \"The Sound of Music\". Peters shared a Tony Award nomination for the role, and stayed with the show for two years.\n\nLike the novel, the musical is concerned primarily with the rocky courtship between Elizabeth Bennet, a poor gentleman's daughter with four sisters, and Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy, a wealthy aristocrat who arrives in Miss Elizabeth's rural village in 1813. The course of true love is hindered by minor character flaws on both sides—his pride and reserve, which look like arrogance to her, and her tendency to jump to erroneous conclusions based on little evidence, as well as her verbal assertiveness, which mildly scandalizes him. Both eventually realize that they have misjudged each other, however, and find that they are actually ideally suited for each other.\n\n\nAfter decades out of print, the original cast album was rereleased on CD in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953066", "title": "Melrose, South Australia", "text": "Melrose, South Australia\n\nMelrose is the oldest town in the Flinders Ranges. It is in the shadow of Mount Remarkable, 265 km north of Adelaide, and the town was once named \"Mount Remarkable\". At the 2011 census, Melrose had a population of 406.\n\nThe Adnyamathanha people lived in the northern Flinders Ranges area for many millennia.\n\nThe first European explorer in the area was Edward John Eyre in 1840; pastoralists settled in the area about a decade later. Copper was discovered and mining started in 1846, but it was not economically viable, and ceased in 1851. The mine was opened again three more times, with the latest closure in 1917.\n\nIn 1893 at a time of high unemployment, Wilton Hack founded a communal settlement in the area. At its peak, some 130 settlers were working of land. By the end of 1895 after a succession of poor seasons around half the settlers had left, and in 1896 the village was closed by the Government.\n\nWhen it was opened in 1848, the police station in Melrose was not only the first permanent police station in the region, but the base of the largest police district in the world. A constable, two troopers and an Aboriginal tracker were responsible for an area extending to the Timor Sea.\n\nThe Wilmington railway line from Gladstone opened near Melrose in 1915 and closed in 1969. The station was almost north of the town. Melrose is also on the Horrocks Highway, formerly known as Main North Road.\n\nMelrose has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\n\nToday, Melrose is the base for visitors to the Mount Remarkable National Park and a centre for the local farmers.\n\nIn June, Melrose is home to the \"Fat Tyre Festival\", an off-road bike celebration exploring local bike trails and crowding parades of freak bikes.\n\nIn August, Melrose is also home to the King of the Mount trail race. This is a race to the summit of Mt Remarkable, during which runners and walkers ascend over along a trail.\n\nMelrose is home to a caravan park visited by 100,000 tourists every year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953067", "title": "Cambridge Ritualists", "text": "Cambridge Ritualists\n\nThe Cambridge Ritualists were a recognised group of classical scholars, mostly in Cambridge, England, including Jane Ellen Harrison, F.M. Cornford, Gilbert Murray (actually from the University of Oxford), A. B. Cook, and others. They earned this title because of their shared interest in ritual, specifically their attempts to explain myth and early forms of classical drama as originating in ritual, mainly the ritual seasonal killings of \"eniautos daimon\", or the Year-King. They are also sometimes referred to as the myth and ritual school, or as the Classical Anthropologists.\n\nInspired by \"The Golden Bough\", Gilbert Murray in 1913 proclaimed the killing of the year spirit as the \"orthodox view of the origins of tragedy. The year Daimon waxes proud and is slain by his enemy, who becomes thereby a murderer, and must in turn perish\". A decade later, however, the excessively rigid application of Frazer's thesis to Greek tragedy had already begun to be challenged; and by the Sixties Robert Fagles could state that \"The ritual origins of tragedy are totally in doubt, often hotly debated\".\n\nThrough their work in classical philology, they exerted profound influence not only on the Classics, but on literary critics, such as Stanley Edgar Hyman or Northrop Frye. Particularly affected by Émile Durkheim was F. M. Cornford, who used the French sociologist's notion of collective representations to analyze social forms of religious, artistic, philosophical, and scientific expression in classical Greece. Other significant influences on the group, particularly on Harrison, were Darwin, James Frazer, Marx, Nietzsche and Freud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953082", "title": "The Wraith", "text": "The Wraith\n\nThe Wraith is a 1986 American independently made action-fantasy film, produced by John Kemeny, written and directed by Mike Marvin, and starring Charlie Sheen, Sherilyn Fenn, Nick Cassavetes, and Randy Quaid. The film was theatrically released on only 88 screens in the United States on November 21, 1986 by New Century Vista Film Company (later New Century Entertainment Corporation).\n\n\"The Wraith\" tells the story of an Arizona teen who mysteriously returns from the dead as a supernatural street-racer driving an invulnerable supercar. His intent is to take revenge on the gang who murdered him.\nFour spheres of light descend from the night sky, coming together and colliding at an isolated desert crossroads, revealing in a bright flash a sleek, all black Dodge M4S Turbo Interceptor, driven by a helmeted, all black-clad figure.\n\nIn the town of Brooks, Arizona, Packard Walsh, the leader of a gang of car thieves, coerces people with sporty cars into racing for pink slips. He controls everyone through intimidation, including Keri Johnson, whom he views as his property. Keri's boyfriend James \"Jamie\" Hankins was mysteriously murdered, leaving no trace; Keri, who was with him, was hospitalized with no memory of the traumatic event.\n\nJacob \"Jake\" Kesey arrives in Brooks riding a Honda XL350R Enduro dirt bike. He befriends both Keri and Jamie's brother William \"Billy\" Hankins, who both work at Big Kay's, the local burger drive-in; they later meet up at a sun-and-swim gathering on a local river, where Jake is seen to have knife scars on his neck and back.\n\nPackard's control of the illegal races is suddenly over when the Turbo Interceptor appears out of nowhere. The mysterious driver of this supercar is covered head-to-toe in black body armor and a black race helmet. The armor is adorned with metal braces resembling those worn by victims recovering from severe physical trauma. The driver challenges Packard's gang to race, explosively killing Oggie Fisher and later Minty in high-speed, fiery crashes which leave their bodies untouched except for burned-out eye sockets. Sheriff Loomis and his lawmen are always in hot pursuit, but the Turbo vanishes in a cloud of glowing light.\n\nTwo more gang members, Skank and Gutterboy, always high on drugs, are later obliterated when the Wraith races the Turbo through the gang's isolated warehouse garage, causing a huge explosion. With Packard's gang now destroyed, Rughead, his tech-geek (who alone among them did not participate in Jamie's murder) realizes too late why the gang had been targeted. When Sheriff Loomis arrives at the scene of the destruction, Rughead tells him everything.\n\nAfter Packard witnesses Keri kissing Jake, he kidnaps her from Big Kay's, beating up Billy when he tries to intervene. When Packard tells her they are going to California, Keri stands up to him and says she will never love him. Just as he gets out of the car and draws his knife on her, the Turbo arrives and Packard takes up the race challenge, only to be killed just like the others. Sheriff Loomis calls off the hunt for the mysterious driver, observing, \"Roadblocks won't stop something that can't be stopped\".\n\nAs Keri arrives home that night, the Turbo pulls up, and the armored driver emerges, transforming into Jake. Keri now realizes that Jake is actually a returned version of her dead boyfriend Jamie, who admits \"This is as close as I could come to who I once was\". He then asks her to wait for him because he has one last thing to do...\n\nJake startles Billy by driving the supercar to Big Kay's and handing him the Turbo's keys while extolling its special features. He then tells Billy that his work is finished, and when Billy asks, \"Who are you, bro?\" Jake wryly replies, \"You said it, Billy\". As Jake rides off on his dirt bike, Billy calls after him \"Jake\"... and then, realizing at last, “Jamie\"!\n\nJake picks up Keri, who is now being watched from a distance by Sheriff Loomis. Together they ride off along the desert highway under a huge Moon, leaving the past behind.\n\n\n\"The Wraith\" is dedicated to the memory of Bruce Ingram, a camera operator who died during the filming of one of the car chases; another crew member was seriously injured. According to supplementary material on the DVD, the camera car was overloaded and overturned while traveling at high speed.\n\n\"The Wraith\" was shot entirely in and around Tucson, Arizona; shots of the hilly road leading into the fictional \"Brooks, AZ\" were filmed on Freeman Road on the city's south side. Keri's (Sherilyn Fenn) home is located at 2128 East 5th Street; \"Big Kay's Burgers\" was a set built especially for the film at 2755 East Benson Highway and no longer exists.\n\nSheriff Loomis goes to talk to Skank and Gutterboy at the Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, at the airplane graveyard where they both work. The film's swimming hole is located in Sabino Canyon, off North Upper Sabino Canyon Road. The curvy mountain road where Packard and his gang challenge other cars to deadly races is the General Hitchcock/Catalina/Mount Lemmon Highway that winds through natural stone monoliths north of the city. Skank and Gutterboy chase after Jamie and Keri down North 4th Avenue at East 7th Street. The portion of the chase that leads into a tunnel is the since-redone tunnel on North 4th Avenue, where it crosses under railroad tracks; Jake and Keri are seen riding down the road through Sabino Canyon Recreation Area (near Sabino Lake Dam) northeast of Tucson.\n\nThe Dodge M4S Turbo Interceptor used in the film was a pace car built by Chrysler Corporation and PPG Industries. Six copies were made for use in the film: two stunt cars made from molds of the original car and four non-drivable \"dummies\" that were destroyed during filming. During production, the real Dodge Turbo Interceptor was used in close-ups. That original is located at the Walter P. Chrysler Museum in Auburn Hills, MI.\n\nThe music score was composed and performed by Michael Hoenig and J. Peter Robinson, two famous synth composers of film and TV series Soundtracks. The soundtrack LP was recorded by Rick Hart and entirely played on a NED Synclavier II.\n\nMany famous 1980s rock music hits are included on the film's soundtrack:\n\nCritical reception was mixed. Film historian and critic Leonard Maltin dismissed the film as \"... for those who favor fast cars and lots of noise.\" In the \"Time Out\" review, editor John Pym saw \"The Wraith\" having \"comic-strip killer car thieves\" with \"... the best joke having one of the thugs knowing the word 'wraith'.\"\n\nFollowing its theatrical run, the film was featured on television in an episode of \"Cinema Insomnia\".\n\nIn 1987 the film was released to VHS video by Lightning Video, then on LaserDisc by Image Entertainment; it was then released in 2003 on DVD by Platinum Disc Corporation (now Echo Bridge Home Entertainment). In spite of having no special features and only being available in the pan-and-scan format, there is missing footage on the original VHS and LaserDisc releases. LionsGate released a widescreen Special Edition DVD on March 2, 2010, which included this previously missing footage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953083", "title": "Brian Lee (wrestler)", "text": "Brian Lee (wrestler)\n\nBrian Lee Harris (born November 26, 1966) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with Extreme Championship Wrestling, Smoky Mountain Wrestling and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling under the ring name Brian Lee and with the World Wrestling Federation as Chainz and an imposter version of The Undertaker.\n\nLee enjoyed most of his success in SMW, becoming the promotion's inaugural Heavyweight Champion in 1992, winning it a total of two times. He also held the Tag Team Championship and the Beat the Champ Television Championship twice each and was a mainstay of the promotion throughout its existence between 1991 and 1995.\n\nBrian Lee made his debut in 1988 for Jerry Jarrett's Continental Wrestling Association in Memphis, Tennessee. In 1989, the CWA merged with World Class Championship Wrestling to form United States Wrestling Association. He would remain with the USWA until 1991.\n\nBrian Lee would make an initial appearance at a WCW taping on April 23, 1990 in Marietta, Georgia when he defeated Bob Cook. He made his debut in World Championship Wrestling's Clash of the Champions XIII on November 20, 1990 losing to The Z-Man.\n\nIn November 1991 he returned to the promotion, this time teaming with Chris Sullivan. The duo were defeated by the combination of Diamond Dallas Page and The Diamond Studd in a match that would air on the December 7 edition of \"World Championship Wrestling\".\n\nLee made his first appearance at a TV taping for the World Wrestling Federation's \"Wrestling Challenge\" show, losing to Kevin Von Erich. The match appeared to be a tryout for both wrestlers. Lee then wrestled in a dark match against Chris Walker the following day at the 1991 special Tuesday pay-per-view event This Tuesday in Texas. On October 28, 1992 Brian Lee received another tryout at a \"Wrestling Challenge\" taping in Louisville, Kentucky and was defeated by Jim Powers.\n\nHe appeared in Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW) as the promotion's mainstay from 1992 until 1995 as \"Prime Time\" Brian Lee. Lee appeared at SMW's first televised show on February 2, 1992, where he defeated Barry Horowitz in his first SMW match and was pushed as the company's top heroic character. He instantly began his first rivalry with Dutch Mantell, which culminated in a match between the two on April 4 episode of \"SMW TV\", which Lee won to advance for the quarter-final round of a tournament to crown the promotion's first Heavyweight Champion. At Volunteer Slam, Lee defeated Buddy Landel, Dirty White Boy and Paul Orndorff to win the tournament and become the inaugural SMW Heavyweight Champion. Lee would retain the title against the likes of Barry Horowitz, Dirty White Boy and Buddy Landel while getting involved in a rivalry with Dirty White Boy and Paul Orndorff. At Summer Blast, Lee and Ron Garvin defeated the team of Orndorff and Dirty White Boy in a tag team match. Lee lost the title to Dirty White Boy after interference by Mongolian Mauler at Fire on the Mountain, ending his reign at 78 days. For the next two months, a mystery assailant named \"The Master\" sent several wrestlers after Lee and issued a $10,000 bounty over Lee's head until Master was revealed to be Kevin Sullivan on the November 7 episode of \"SMW TV\". Lee had a lengthy rivalry with Sullivan that culminated in a series of matches for the rest of 1992 until summer 1993. Lee defeated Sullivan in a Singapore Spike match at Bluegrass Brawl.\n\nOn the May 1 episode of \"SMW TV\", Lee defeated Bobby Eaton to capture his first Beat the Champ Television Championship. Lee made his first successful title defense against Killer Kyle on the May 8 episode of \"SMW TV\". At Volunteer Slam II, Lee defeated Stan Lane and then teamed with Rock 'n' Roll Express, Jimmy Golden and Robert Fuller to defeat the team of Kevin Sullivan, Killer Kyle, The Tazmaniac and The Heavenly Bodies (Stan Lane and Tom Prichard) in a Rage in a Cage match. Lee would then defeat Sullivan in a Singapore Spike match at The Last Tango in Tennessee to end the feud. Lee would then retain the Beat the Champ Television Championship in title defenses against Jimmy Golden, The Dirty White Boy, Paul Lee and finally Robbie Eagle on the June 19 episode of \"SMW TV\", which resulted in Lee vacating the title after having won five consecutive title matches. After the match, Tracy Smothers interrupted an interview of Lee to cut his own promo which infuriated Lee.\n\nOn June 24, Lee defeated Jimmy Golden, Killer Kyle and Tracy Smothers to win the King of Kentucky tournament. On the June 26 episode of \"SMW TV\", Lee turned into a villain for the first time in his SMW career by attacking Tracy Smothers after rescuing him from an assault by Kevin Sullivan and Jimmy Golden. He was joined by the debuting Tammy Fytch as his valet on the July 3 \"SMW TV\". This led to a feud between Lee and Smothers, which led to Lee defeating Smothers to win his second Heavyweight Championship on the July 24 \"SMW TV\". Lee made his first televised title defense against Tim Horner on the August 7 \"SMW TV\", where he retained the title via a disqualification after Smothers attacked Lee. Lee would then retain the title against Smothers after losing via disqualification at Hot Night in Morristown and in a Coal Miner's Glove match at Fire on the Mountain. Lee would then successfully defend the title against Mongolian Stomper at K-Town Showdown and Bobby Blaze on the September 4 episode of \"SMW TV\". He retained the title against the likes of Blaze, Smothers and The Dirty White Boy throughout the rest of the year and early 1994 until he lost the title to Dirty White Boy in a Chain match at Sunday Bloody Sunday on February 13, 1994. Lee would continue his feud with Dirty White Boy as Lee teamed with Fytch to take on Dirty White Boy and Dirty White Girl in a series of mixed tag team matches, which culminated in a street fight at Bluegrass Brawl II, which Lee and Fytch lost.\n\nAfter losing the Heavyweight Championship, Lee formed a tag team with Tammy Fytch's another client Chris Candido and began feuding with the Tag Team Champions Rock 'n' Roll Express, which led to Lee and Candido defeating Rock 'n' Roll Express for the Tag Team Championship at a house show on April 23. Lee and Candido successfully defended the titles against Rock 'n' Roll Express in a no disqualification, no time limit match at Volunteer Slam III. On the July 16 episode of \"SMW TV\", Lee unsuccessfully challenged Tracy Smothers for the Beat the Champ Television Championship. Lee and Candido dropped the titles back to Rock 'n' Roll Express at Night of Legends on August 5. However, the following night, at Fire on the Mountain, Lee and Candido defeated Rock 'n' Roll Express in a hair vs. hair match to win their second SMW Tag Team Championship. They successfully defended the titles against Rock 'n' Roll Express via disqualification at Battle of Beckley, before losing the title again to Rock 'n' Roll Express on the August 20 episode of \"SMW TV\", after Candido accidentally attacked Lee. This led to a post-match confrontation in which Fytch blamed Lee for the loss and Candido turned on Lee by attacking him, which led to Lee turning back into a fan favorite.\n\nLee formed an alliance with Lance Storm and entered a brief feud with Candido and Boo Bradley and the two teams competed in a series of tag team matches. On the December 10 episode of \"SMW TV\", Lee defeated The Nightmare to win the vacant Beat the Champ Television Championship for the second time. He successfully defended the title against Inferno Brimstone and D-Lo Brown, before losing the belt to Buddy Landel on December 31 episode of \"SMW TV\". Lee then left SMW and began wrestling in the United States Wrestling Association (USWA). He made a one-off return to SMW at Fire on the Mountain on August 12, where he took on Brad Armstrong in a losing effort.\n\nIn 1994, he briefly returned to the World Wrestling Federation to perform as an impostor version of The Undertaker. \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase, who originally introduced The Undertaker into the WWF at Survivor Series 1990, claimed to have found The Undertaker, who disappeared after losing a casket match to Yokozuna at the 1994 Royal Rumble. Shortly after this, Lee began appearing dressed as The Undertaker. DiBiase claimed that he had convinced The Undertaker to come back with his vast amounts of money and made him a member of his Million Dollar Corporation, with his powers now derived from DiBiase's riches instead of the urn that he or his manager, Paul Bearer, toted with him to the ring. For several weeks, Lee wrestled matches as The Undertaker while Bearer \"made contact\" with the real Undertaker and promised to produce him at SummerSlam in August 1994. At the event, Lee's impostor Undertaker faced off against the actual Undertaker and was defeated. After the match, DiBiase fled from ringside while The Undertaker rolled the impostor into a casket that was taken away. Although the idea was for Lee to continue portraying the impostor Undertaker for some time afterward and to have more matches against the actual Undertaker, the WWF dropped the story after SummerSlam.\n\nAfter SummerSlam, Lee returned to SMW and also returned to the United States Wrestling Association. It was in the USWA that he first teamed with his real life cousins, Ron and Don Harris, then known as the Bruise Brothers.\n\nBy early 1996, Lee began competing in Extreme Championship Wrestling. During this period, he went by the nicknames \"Prime Time\" Brian Lee, \"Bulldozer\" (or Bulldozer for Hire) and later \"Killdozer\" and was allied with Raven as a hired bodyguard for his stable.\n\nLee and Tommy Dreamer then got involved in a very violent and personal feud, which began through Dreamer's feud with Raven. At the ECW event Fight The Power on June 1, during a six-man tag match, Brian Lee chokeslammed Dreamer from the ECW balcony through three stacked tables, then pinned Dreamer for the win. The footage was frequently used during ECW's opening video montage.\n\nOn June 22, at Hardcore Heaven, after losing a singles match to Dreamer after Dreamer's valet Beulah McGillicutty got involved, Lee again chokeslammed Dreamer off a balcony through three tables. At Heat Wave, during a three on three \"Rage in the Cage\" tag team cage match, Lee again chokeslammed Dreamer, this time from the top of the cage through three tables set up on the outside by Raven's henchmen. On October 5 at Ultimate Jeopardy during a tag match also involving Sandman and Stevie Richards, Lee once again chokeslammed Dreamer from the ECW balcony, this time through four tables set up below.\n\nAt several house shows released on ECW Fan Cam, Lee and Dreamer had Falls Count Anywhere matches which resulted in the two men brawling in moving traffic outside the building. The feud culminated at ECW's High Incident event, in the match Lee is most remembered for from his ECW tenure. During his Scaffold Match with Dreamer, Lee took a major bump from the scaffolding high above the ring through a series of tables stacked up inside the ring.\n\nAt November to Remember, the main event was a tag match pitting Dreamer with Terry Funk against Shane Douglas and Lee. From here, Lee began a feud with Funk, which lasted until 1997. Lee also became a part of the revived Triple Threat stable with Douglas and Chris Candido, while a masked man who was hinted at to be Rick Rude began stalking Douglas. At ECW's ECW Barely Legal, it was revealed that the masked man was Lee himself. He attacked Shane Douglas and kissed Francine before leaving the ring with Rick Rude. Lee left ECW soon after. His spot was subsequently taken by Bam Bam Bigelow.\n\nIn 1997, Lee returned to the WWF as Chainz, a member of the biker faction Disciples of Apocalypse (or DOA) along with leader Crush and his cousins, the Harris Brothers, who were renamed Skull and 8-Ball. The foursome feuded with Los Boricuas, the Nation of Domination, and the Truth Commission during the WWF's \"Gang Warz\" storyline. Lee remained in the WWF until the summer of 1998. His last match in the company was on June 15, 1998, on an episode of Raw, which was a loss to Val Venis. After this match he was released from the company once again.\n\nAfter being released from the WWF in June 1998, Brian Lee entered four independent companies in 1998, as Chainz. He entered New Breed Wrestling (NBW), where he and \"Jackmaster\" John Diamond defeated Primo Carnera III and Tony DeVito. He entered Lutte Familiale, for the company's Lutte 2000 event, where he defeated Brian Christopher. He entered American States Wrestling Alliance (ASWA), for the company's ASWA Vault event, where he defeated Jimmie Lee. He also entered New Dimension Wrestling (NDW), where he defeated The Dark Patriot. On May 2, 1999, Brian Lee entered Pro Wrestling International as Chainz, where he had a match against Tatanka, which he lost by disqualification.\n\nOn January 4, 2002, Brian Lee entered IWA Puerto Rico for the first night of their 3 night event IWA Histeria Boricua 2002 and had a match against Shane the Glamour Boy, which ended in a no contest. On January 6, 2002, Brian Lee (as Chainz) challenged Apolo for the IWA Undisputed World Heavyweight Championship on the third night of the 3 night event, but lost the match.\n\nBrian Lee debuted in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling on August 14, 2002, when he tag teamed with David Young taking on America's Most Wanted (\"Cowboy\" James Storm and \"Wildcat\" Chris Harris) in a dark match, which they lost. He had his first televised match in the company on August 21, 2002, where he tag teamed with Ron Harris, taking on America's Most Wanted, which they lost. He would tag team with Ron Harris and have two more losing efforts to America's Most Wanted, then the team disbanded. Later in 2002, he joined The Disciples of The New Church and formed a tag team with Slash, under the leadership of manager Father James Mitchell. In their debut match on November 6, 2002, they took on America's Most Wanted for the NWA World Tag Team Championship, but lost the match by disqualification. The following week, on November 13, 2002, they defeated America's Most Wanted and captured the NWA World Tag Team Championship from them and ended their undefeated streak. They later lost the titles back to America's Most Wanted on January 8, 2003. In his final match in the company, on July 30, 2003, he teamed with Slash and Shane Douglas, in a Falls Count Anywhere Clockwork Orange House of Fun match against Raven, Julio Dinero, and Alexis Laree, in which his team were victorious.\n\nAfter leaving Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, Brian Lee appeared from time to time on smaller independent events from 2003-2006. Brian Lee appeared in a United States Wrestling Organization (USWO) match on August 17, 2012, tag teaming with Wolfie D defeating Damien Payne and Jocephus.. Brian Lee entered NWA Southern All-Star Wrestling in 2014 and formed a tag team with Lee Condry, called The Prime Time Outlaws. They had their debut tag team match On March 7, 2014 (broadcast: March 9, 2014) at the company's Inferno event, which was a loss to NWA SAW Southern Tag Team Champions: Team IOU (Nick Iggy and Kerry Awful). On May 30, 2014, at the company's Collision Course event, they defeated Team IOU in a Double Dog Collar Match for the NWA SAW Southern Tag Team Titles. Their final tag team match was on June 27, 2014 (broadcast: July 6, 2014), where they lost the NWA SAW Southern Tag Team Titles to The Weatherbys (Kevin Weatherby and Cody Weatherby). Afterwards, Brian Lee left the company and retired from professional wrestling.\n\n\nLee appeared in the Bollywood film \"Khiladiyon Ka Khiladi\" under \"The Undertaker\" name in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953092", "title": "Aspasius of Auch", "text": "Aspasius of Auch\n\nAspasius of Auch (; also Aspasius of Éauze; died 560) was a Christian leader of the 6th century canonized as a saint.\n\nAspasius served as the Bishop of Éauze (modern-day Auch, France). He participated in the Second, Third and Fifth Councils of Orléans in 533, 541, and 549, and also held a provincial council in 551.\n\nHe is traditionally venerated in the French towns of Meaux and Melun. His feast day is January 2.\n"}
{"id": "1953101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953101", "title": "Gopalganj District, Bangladesh", "text": "Gopalganj District, Bangladesh\n\nGopalganj () is a district (\"zilla\" in Bengali) in the Dhaka division of Bangladesh. The district has about 1,172,415 civilians and its surface area is 1,490 km². The main city of the district is also called Gopalganj. It stands on the bank of the Madhumati river and located at 23°00’47.67\" N 89°49’21.41\". It is bounded by Faridpur district on the North, Pirojpur and Bagerhat district on the South, Madaripur & Barisal district on the East and Narail district on the West.\n\nGopalganj is subdivided into five sub-districts (upazila/thana).\n\nThe Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Gopalganj has developed a web portal of the district as www.gopalganj.gov.bd under the 'Access to Information' program of the Prime Minister's Office. This has been done under the Digital Bangladesh implementation concept of the incumbent government.\n\nThis area was under the southern part of ancient Bengal called Vanga. Around 300 BC here in Kotalipara was the capital of Gangaridai dynasty. Gangaridai was one of the powerful kingdom of Indian subcontinent. It was described by the Greek traveller Megasthenes in his work Indica. During Sultanate and Mughal period several Hindu kings ruled the area. In 1713, Muksudpur Upazila was part of Jessore district while the rest of Gopalganj was part of Dhaka - Jalalpur District. Muksedpur was later transferred to Faridpur district in 1807. Gopalganj Gopalganj Sadar and Kotalipara was part of Jalalpur Porgona of Faridpur district. Chandana (now Modhumoti) river was the borderline for Jessore and Dhaka - Jalalpur districts in 1812. Gopalgnaj - Madaripur was a large water body back then where maritime robbery was a regular activity. Thus, Madaripur Mohakuma or Sub-division was separated in 1854 from Bakergonj District.\n\nLater, Gopalganj emerged as a Police Station in 1872 under the Madaripur Mohakuma or Sub-division vide Calcutta Gazette of 1870. In 1873, Madaripur Mohakuma or Sub-division was transferred to Faridpur district from Bakergonj district. Later in 1909, it was separated from the Madaripur Mohakuma of Bakergonj district to form a new Gopalganj Mohhakuma or sub-division. Later, Muksudpur Police Station of Faridpur district joined Gopalganj and Kotalipara police stations of Gopalganj Mohakuma or sub-division of Faridpur district.\n\nThe first SDO (sub-divisional officer) was Mr. Suresh Chandra Sen. In 1910, the sub-divisional officer's bench court was transformed into Criminal Court. In 1921, Gopalganj was elevated to township status which was inhabited by only 3,478 persons. 1925 saw the initiation of Civil Court. In 1936, Muksudpur was split to form Kashiani police station.\n\nGopalganj Mohakuma or sub-division emerged as Gopalganj district on the 1st day of February in 1984. Mr. AFM Ehiya Chowdhury was the first District Commissioner of Gopalganj District.\n\nIn the same year, Tungipara was separated from the Sadar Upazila to form a new upazila namely Tungipara upazila. After the liberation war in 1972, Gopalganj Sadar became Municipality or Pourashava and Panna Biswas was selected as its first Chairman.\n\nBangabondhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman who hailed from the district declared independence of Bangladesh. Hemaet Uddin, leader of Hemaet Bahini, is known for his gallantry contribution in the Liberation War of 1971. The very first protest of the Liberation War occurred at the . 5 members of the Police who participated in the first protest of the Liberation War at Razarbag Police Line are the sons of this district. Martyrs of the war included Professor Santosh Das, Abdul Latif, Golzar Hossen Chowdhury, Mahbubur Rahman and many others. Guerilla Training Camps took place in Bangabandhu Govt. School field, Hijlabari school field. Guerilla training and battles took place after Steamer of Major Ghouri entered Gopalganj from Khulna on 30 April. Gopalganj was part of sector 8. But still three forces took command of the operations namely Hemayet Bahini (Force), Mujib Bahini (Force) and Mukti Bahini (Liberation Force) under the command of Captain Hemayet Uddin Bir Bikram, Ismat Kadir and Lutfor Rahman respectively. Apart from these many members of the Army, EPR and other forces like Captain Halim, Captain Milu, Captain Shihabuddin, Captain Jamal and Abdur Rahman led other forces in their villages.\n\n\nGopalganj is associated with significant importance in Bangladesh politics. The district is the political bastion of the Awami League. Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation and the first President of Bangladesh, hailed from the village of Tungipara in the district and began his political career in the said district. Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina Wajed, the current Prime Minister of Bangladesh also hails from the same district. Sheikh Fazlul Haq Mani, his nephew, had also been elected to Parliament from Gopalganj-2 constituency. Unfortunately both Rahman and his nephew were assassinated on 15 August 1975.\n\nRahman's daughter, has been elected 4 times as the Member of the Parliament (MP) from Gopalganj-3 (Kotalipara and Tungipara) constituency and thrice as the Prime Minister of Bangladesh. Her cousin and Sheikh Mani's brother, Sheikh Fazlul Karim Selim has been elected 4 times as the MP from Gopalganj-2 constituency. Lt. Col. Mohammad Faruq Khan, also a presidium member of Bangladesh Awami League, is from Gopalgonj-1 constituency.\n\nMolla Jalal, Choudhury Emdadul Hoq, Khan Saheb, Sheikh Mosharrof Hossain and Advocate Khandaker Mahbub Uddin were among other popular political leaders of this area.\n\nGopalganj has a great transportation system. It is a 5 hours drive away from the capital Dhaka by road subject to traffic conditions. The journey time is set to reduce once the Padma Multipurpose Bridge is opened for all. Dhaka-Khulna Highway goes through Gopalganj to connect the neighbouring districts namely Barisal, Narail, Faridpur, Madaripur, Bagerhat and Khulna. Buses leaves Dhaka for Gopalganj from both Gabtoli and Syedabad. Tungipara Express, Modhumoti, Dola, Bonoful leaves from Sayedabad for Gopalganj via Munshiganj - Mawa - Kawrakandi - Madaripur and Comfort Line, Sheba Green, Polash leaves from Gabtoli for Gopalganj via Manikgonj - Paturia - Doulotdia - Rajbari - Faridpur.\n\nWater transportation was the main medium of transport for the people of this district in the 1980s but the popularity of it has declined over time with the introduction of road connectivity. Now a launch operates between Sadarghat of Dhaka and Poisharhat of Kotalipara. However, mechanical trawlers and boats still ply through the rivers, canals and vast water bodies.\n\nAn inoperable rail line is in place till Kashiani. The train service is also set to be reintroduced after the Padma Bridge is built.\nOn 14 April 1986, at least 92 people were killed in Gopalganj by the heaviest hailstones ever recorded, which were the size of grapefruits and weighed around 1 kg (2.2 lb) each.\n\nGopalganj district consists of 5 upazilas (previously known as 'Thana or Police Station' which is essentially a sub-district) namely Gopalganj Sadar, Kotalipara, Kashiani, Muksudpur, and Tungipara; 4 Pourashavas/ Municipalities namely Gopalganj (Class A), Tungipara (Class B), Kotalipara (Class B) & Muksudpur (Class C) and 68 unions.\n\nThe main township is known as Gopalganj Sadar, which consists of 9 wards and 49 mahallas. Gopalganj municipality was constituted in 1972. It has an area of 8.59 km² and a population of 40,987; male 53.27%, female 46.73% with a population density of 4,771 per km².\n\nAdministrator of Zila Porishod:Choudhury Emdadul Haq\n\nDeputy Commissioner (DC): Sarker Mukhlesur Rahman\n\nThe district has 21 colleges, 181 high schools and 760 primary schools. Other notable educational institutions are as follows:\n\nThe district of Gopalganj has 356 mosques, 359 temples, 250 churches and 4 tombs.\n\nA._Q._M._Jainul_Abedin== Notable People ==\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953113", "title": "Secchia", "text": "Secchia\n\nThe Secchia (; called by Pliny ) is an Italian river. One of the main right bank tributaries of the Po, it flows through the Emilia-Romagna region in northern Italy.\nIt is long, and has a drainage basin with a catchment area of , alternating between aridity in the dry summer months and higher flows during the wet spring and autumn periods. It originates at Alpe di Succiso at an elevation of , close to the pass of Cerreto in the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines, then it heads north, touching on the territory of Frignano, passing into the territory of the commune of Pavullo nel Frignano and reaching the Po Valley close to Sassuolo (in the province of Modena). Here it touches on the city of Modena and, with its riverbank protected by embankments, runs into the Po just south of Mantua, close to the mouth of the Mincio.\n"}
{"id": "1953118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953118", "title": "Dora Baltea", "text": "Dora Baltea\n\nDora Baltea () or Doire Baltée (; , ; ; or \"Duria Bautica\") is a river in northwestern Italy. It is a left-hand tributary of the Po and is about long.\n\nIt originates by Mont Blanc as the confluence of the Dora di Ferret, fed by the Pré de Bar Glacier in Val Ferret, and the Dora di Veny, fed by the Miage Glacier and Brenva Glacier in Val Veny.\n\nAs it crosses the Aosta Valley, the Dora Baltea flows through the city of Aosta (where the Buthier runs into it) and near all the main cities of the lower Aosta Valley: Châtillon, Saint-Vincent, Verrès and Pont-Saint-Martin. After it enters Piedmont, it passes through the city of Ivrea and a good part of Canavese, gets from its right hand the waters of the Chiusella and reaches the Po at Crescentino, a little downstream from Chivasso.\n\nIt is a popular place for whitewater rafting and kayaking. Early in the summer, in May and June, the rivers are usually high with snow melt from the mountains. During July, August and September the water levels are usually lower and the temperature warmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953120", "title": "Hal Anger", "text": "Hal Anger\n\nHal Oscar Anger (May 20, 1920 – October 31, 2005) was an American electrical engineer and biophysicist at Donner Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, known for his invention of the gamma camera.\n\nIn all, Anger held 15 patents, many of them for work at the Ernest O. Lawrence Radiation Laboratory. Anger received several awards in recognition of his inventions and their contributions to the field of nuclear medicine. Anger died in Berkeley, California.\n\nIn 1957, he invented the scintillation camera, known also as the gamma camera or Anger camera. Anger also developed the well counter, widely used in laboratory tests to measure radioactivity in samples. Anger also developed a multi-plane tomographic radiation scanner using the Anger camera and a focussed radiation collimator.\n\nThe first useful scintillation camera was developed by Anger at an AEC-funded laboratory at the University of California at Berkeley, California.\nConsequently, the patent rights on the invention were owned by the U.S. Government. However, Anger's supervisors at the lab were well-connected with the head of the AEC, Glenn Seaborg, and prevailed on the AEC to release the patent rights to Anger personally. Anger retained patent counsel to file a U.S. patent application on his invention, and this application eventually matured into U.S. Patent 3,011,057, issued in November 1961. While his patent was pending, Anger tried unsuccessfully to interest nuclear instrument companies in taking a license on a non-exclusive basis to produce and sell the Anger camera. He eventually granted an exclusive license on the '057 patent to Nuclear-Chicago Corporation (NCC), in Des Plaines, Illinois. NCC successfully developed a commercially useful version of the Anger Camera and began marketing it to nuclear medical departments of hospitals in the United States. NCC's commercial sales of the Anger Camera grew substantially over the years and Anger became modestly wealthy from the royalties that he received under the exclusive license agreement. NCC was eventually acquired by G.D. Searle & Co, of Skokie, Illinois, and operated as a wholly owned subsidiary.\n\nNuclear-Chicago Corporation's exclusivity on marketing the Anger scintillation camera was eventually challenged by the introduction of a competing version of the Anger camera by Picker Corporation. NCC and Anger sued Picker for infringement of the '057 patent, and Picker counterclaimed for invalidity of the '057 patent. Picker also filed a proceeding in the Atomic Energy Commission, challenging the legitimacy of the AEC's release of the patent rights to Anger, and requesting a compulsory license under the '057 patent. The AEC proceeding was decided in favor of Anger and NCC, and the patent infringement lawsuit was eventually settled by the grant of a sublicense agreement to Picker. Other competitors later emerged and further litigation on the '057 patent was initiated. NCC was eventually sold to Siemens Corporation and Siemens continued to develop the technology of the Anger Camera and to market the device worldwide.\n\nIn 2006, the Society of Nuclear Medicine's Education and Research Foundation received $6 million from the Hal Anger Estate, the largest gift ever received for advancing the field of nuclear medicine, leading to the development of a Hal Anger Prize and Lecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953123", "title": "Orco", "text": "Orco\n\nThe Orco (, that is lit. \"Water of gold\"; ) is an Italian river. It originates in the Piedmontese slopes of Gran Paradiso and after about reaches the Po river near Chivasso, in the Metropolitan City of Turin. Its drainage basin is home to the most important complex of hydropower in Piedmont, consisting of six major dams (Agnel, Serrù, Ceresole Reale, Teleccio, Piantonetto, Valsoera), many smaller reservoirs and numerous turbines and power stations.\n\nThe Orco is known also for its gold-bearing sand, extracted already in antiquity. Even today there is a certain activity, on an amateur level, searching for grains of gold.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953126", "title": "Dora Riparia", "text": "Dora Riparia\n\nThe Dora Riparia (; ; ; ) is an alpine river, a left-hand tributary of the Po. It is long, with a drainage basin. It originates in the Cottian Alps, close to the Col de Montgenèvre in France, where it is called the Piccola Dora. Its name becomes the Dora Riparia after the confluence with the Ripa in the Argentera Valley and the Thuras de Bousson close to Cesana.\n\nFurther down the valley, in Oulx, the river grows thanks to its main upper tributary, the Dora di Bardonecchia, and before Susa is augmented by the Galambra and Cenischia. After Susa, it only receives minor tributaries: from the left, Gravio by Condove, Sessi by Caprie, and Messa by Almese, from the right Scaglione by Meana and Gravio by Villar Focchiardo. It runs through the Susa Valley, and after having crossed part of the plain of the Po and the territories of the comunes of Avigliana, Alpignano, Pianezza and Collegno, joins the Po at Turin. It is considered a \"stream\" (\"torrente\") until Susa, and a river (\"fiume\") to Turin.\n\nIt was at the confluence of the Dora Riparia and the Po that present-day Turin was founded in Roman times. Dora Riparia was there for a long time the main source of energy: already in medieval times its water was collected in canals (\"\") that drove mills, water wheels and other contraptions. In the area between the confluence of Dora Riparia and Stura in the Po, where before the destruction caused by the Battle of Turin in 1706 one could find the \"Regio\" park, lies today the \"Parco della Colletta\". One of the bridges spanning the river at Turin is Ponte Mosca.\n\nIn the 20th century, industrial and urban development significantly degenerated environmental conditions in the river; renovation work did not start until the 1990s. In 1999, the environmental protection agency ARPA (the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection) conducted a study of the entire Dora Riparia and the river Sangone, revealing a condition of serious pollution. Then, in 2002, the agro-natural park of Dora Riparia was born, financed by the comune of Collegno and the region of Po, to preserve the natural habitat, but also to integrate agricultural and river area.\n"}
{"id": "1953127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953127", "title": "Satyameva Jayate", "text": "Satyameva Jayate\n\n\"Satyameva Jayate\" ( \"\"; lit. \"Truth alone triumphs\") is a part of a \"mantra\" from the Hindu scripture \"Mundaka Upanishad\". Following the independence of India, it was adopted as the national motto of India on 26 January 1950, the day India became a republic.\nIt is inscribed in the Devanagari script at the base of the Lion Capital of Ashoka and forms an integral part of the Indian national emblem. The emblem and the words \"Satyameva Jayate\" are inscribed on one side of all Indian currency. The emblem is an adaptation of the Lion Capital of Ashoka which was erected around 250 BCE at Sarnath, Varanasi in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is inscribed on all currency notes and national documents.\n\nThe origin of the motto is a well-known mantra 3.1.6 from the Mundaka Upanishad. The mantra is as follows:\n\n\n<poem>\nसत्यमेव जयते नानृतं सत्येन पन्था विततो देवयानः ।\nयेनाक्रमन्त्यृषयो ह्याप्तकामा यत्र तत् सत्यस्य परमं निधानम् ॥\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\n\"satyameva jayate nānṛtaṃ\"\n\"satyena panthā vitato devayānaḥ\"\n\"yenākramantyṛṣayo hyāptakāmā\"\n\"yatra tat satyasya paramaṃ nidhānam\"\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nTruth alone triumphs; not falsehood.\nThrough truth the divine path is spread out\nby which the sages whose desires have been completely fulfilled,\nreach to where is that supreme treasure of Truth.\n</poem>\n\nIt is to be noted that the original mundak upanishad has the word jayati (जयति) instead of jayate(जयते). How did the latter came in the logo is a matter of thought. According to the sanskrit grammar, it should be jayati(जयति).\n\nPopular connotations also include:\n\nThe slogan was popularised and brought into the national lexicon by Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya in 1918 when serving his second of four terms as President of the Indian National Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953130", "title": "Panaro (river)", "text": "Panaro (river)\n\nThe Panaro is an Italian river and the final right-hand tributary to the Po, discounting the Cavo Napoleonico canal. It runs right across Emilia-Romagna in a north-easterly direction: from its source close to the Apennine watershed, where Emilia-Romagna meets Tuscany, to its outlet where the Po marks the region's boundary with Veneto. Its Latin name was \"Scultenna\".\n\nIt is long, with a drainage basin; alternating between aridity in summer and fullness in spring and autumn. \n\nIts principal source, the Rio delle Tagliole, rises at Foce a Giovo, Monte Rondinaio, some south-west of highest peak of the Tuscan-Emillian Apennines, Monte Cimone, elevation . From here it flows down the valley in a northeastern direction. At Pievepelago (in the Province of Modena) it changes name to Scoltenna, assuming in the territory of Pavullo nel Frignano finally that of Panaro. In this area it makes up the border between the communities of Montana del Frignano and Montana dell’appennino Modena Est. Close to Modena, it joins the Naviglio de Modena and becomes navigable until its confluence with the Po, a little to the west of Ferrara. It runs through Vignola, Finale Emilia and Bondeno.\n\nOf particular historical and artistic interest is the bridge of Olina, constructed in 1522, crossing the river close to the small town of the same name, in the commune of Pavullo nel Frignano\n"}
{"id": "1953135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953135", "title": "Antonio Abati", "text": "Antonio Abati\n\nAntonio Abati (late 16th century-1667) was an Italian poet. He was born in Gubbio, but the rest of his early biography is very vague. Abati was a satirical poet who wrote in the Baroque style. His book of nine satires was published in 1651.\n\nAround 1640 he was a member of various academies in Rome, including \"gli Umoristi\" (the Humorists), where he read \"\"Ragguagli di Parnasso\"\" (\"Comparison with Parnassus\"), dedicated to the bad poets of the times. Between 1634 and 1638, Abati was in Viterbo, where he made the acquaintance of Salvator Rosa.\n\nLeopold of Austria took him on as a poet laureate, then between 1640 and 1644 he travelled around the Netherlands and France, experiencing ups and downs, something he had opportunity to describe in one of his comedies: \"\"Il Viaggio\"\" (\"The Voyage\").\n\nReturning to Italy, he obtained the protection of Cardinal Chigi, becoming governor of some villages of the Papal State (Grotte, Recanati and Frascati).\n\nThe last years of his life, he spent at a farm near Senigallia - given to him by the Grand Duchess of Tuscany – and here he died after a long period of disease.\n\nHe led a merry life, his activity was well rewarded and he had the protection of powerful men (among whom was Emperor Ferdinand III). The value of his poetry is definitely inferior to his celebrity.\n\n\nMassimo Colella, «Altro piacer che viaggiar non trovo». Una satira odeporica secentesca: Il Viaggio [di Antonio Abati], in Antonio Abati. Satira e encomio, Senigallia, Ventura edizioni, 2019, pp. 163-194.\n"}
{"id": "1953140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953140", "title": "Giuseppe Cesare Abba", "text": "Giuseppe Cesare Abba\n\nGiuseppe Cesare Abba (6 October 1838 – 6 November 1910) was an Italian patriot and writer. As a participant on the expedition of i Mille he fought next to Giuseppe Garibaldi in his conquest of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies in 1860.\n\nHe was born in Cairo Montenotte (Liguria, then part of the Kingdom of Sardinia/Piedmont).\n\nAbba studied in the Academy of Fine Arts in Genoa, which he left in 1859 when entered a cavalry regiment in Pinerolo. In 1860 he moved to Parma, and then joined Garibaldi's volunteers. He took part in most of the battles which led to the dissolution of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies.\n\nHis literary work is limited to revolutionary memories; after retiring to private life, first at Pisa, then in his native town, he attempted to write a romantic poem in five canti by the title \"Arrigo\". A fervent follower of Manzoni, he then tried to write a historical novel (1875) with \"Le rive della Bormida nel 1794\" (\"The Banks of the Bormida in 1794\"), with the notes taken in the 1860 expedition, which he did not publish. In 1880 it became \"Noterelle di uno dei Mille edite dopo vent’anni\" (\"Notes by one of the Thousand twenty years later\"), assuming its final title, \"Da Quarto al Volturno: Noterelle d’uno dei Mille\" (\"From Quarto to Volturno: Notes by one of the Thousand\"), only in 1891.\n\nThis work was his magnum opus, being released thanks to Giosuè Carducci, to whom Abba had sent it on the urging of an old revolutionary friend, Sclavo. Carducci was at that time considering writing a work on the life of Garibaldi, and encouraged the survivors of the campaign to give him historical testimonies. When he had read the \"Noterelle\", he appreciated it so much that gave it to the editor Zanichelli to be published, telling the author that now he might never write the biography of the hero.\n\nAbba quickly acquired fame, so much so that he became first teacher at the secondary school at Faenza, then principal of the technological institute of Brescia, where he worked until his death.\n\nEven though he produced other works based on the expedition, none became as celebrated as the \"Noterelle\". He also wrote poetry and short stories, but without much success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953144", "title": "Aleardo Aleardi", "text": "Aleardo Aleardi\n\nAleardo Aleardi (14 November 181217 July 1878), born Gaetano Maria, was an Italian poet who belonged to the so-called Neo-romanticists.\n\nAleardo was born in Verona in 1812, and took an active part in the movement of the Risorgimento. In 1848 he went to Paris, invited by Daniele Manin, to garner support for the Venetian Republic. He was arrested twice: at Mantua in 1852 and at Josephstadt in Bohemia in 1859. After the unification of Italy he became a member of parliament, then in 1873 a senator, and finally a professor of aesthetics at Florence, where he died in 1878.\n\nAleardo Aleardi - whose name was Gaetano Maria, then he turned into Aleardo - was born in Verona in 1812 by Maria Channels and Count Giorgio Aleardi. After studying law at the University of Padua together with friends John Meadows and Arnaldo Fusinato, he returned to Verona, interest in poetry and art criticism.\nAmong his earliest compositions there are Marriage (1842), an exaltation of marriage as an expression of civilization, and the Arnalda Roca, in 1844, a poem that has historical protagonist a young woman who dies defending his honor: there is already in it the search for scenic effects and dramatic color that is typical of the entire production next dell'Aleardi.\nThe first success was achieved in 1846 with the two Letters to Mary, in verse, in which the poet turns to friend proposing a platonic love: it is an opportunity to express his belief in the immortality of the soul and pour out his emotional suffering in a spirit of romanticism way.\n\nFrequent visitor to the salon of Countess Anna Serego Gozzadini Alighieri, he courted the daughter Nina, dedicating numerous poems. The riots of 1848, was sent to Paris by Manin to ask for help reconstituted Venetian Republic. He was arrested in 1852 and imprisoned for several months in the fortress of Mantua was followed by a period of depression and, in 1855, the idyll Raphael and the Fornarina, where the affectation of the poem is likely to reach the poor taste.\nOften compared to the Meadows for the common languor sentimental, but to the subject, the luck dell'Aleardi declined at the end of the nineteenth century to get some recognition from the Cross, which he took over the sincerity of the poet in the forms of dubious taste and made him a precursor the pastures, and De Lollis, who saw in him the romantic poet of transition, torn between classicism and realism.\n\nWhile negative were the judgments of Momigliano, for whom \"in his poetry is almost always aleardismo, almost never Aleardi ', and Pompeati evaluating the Aleardi\" a chrysalis of a poet \", located in the Flora him as a genuine poet and Sapegno, confirming the quality of poetic dell'Aleardi, alleges that his lapses of taste to the cultural climate of the time.\nFor the Piromalli, on the basis of studies Gramsci, the fear of the Paris revolution of 1848 and the failure of the Italian revolution in 1849 \"to propel the late Romantic literature Arcadia of sentimentality and a longing for steamy atmospheres,\" in which the poet \"becomes an exceptional character for his sensitivity and higher than the practical and economic realities\" and the poem a vague idealism, according to a \"costume sleepy, sluggish and autonobilitantesi.\" The Aleardi it is, with the Prati, one of the main representatives: they are both \"poets consumption, ideal anticontadini, in love with the beauty of the heart, unable to leave the floral language and go to the concrete\".\n\nHis poetic work is not extensive, and mostly revolves around the themes of history and the fatherland. He was in fact called the poet of history because of his tendency to research and relive the past, also the distant past of prehistory and the mythical infancy of the earth (\"Il monte Circello\" (Circello mountain), 1856 and \"Le prime storie\" (The first stories), 1857). However, one often finds that this nostalgia is, more often than not, a pretext to display his eloquence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953148", "title": "Dominic Pozzoni", "text": "Dominic Pozzoni\n\nDominic Pozzoni, (22 December 1861 – 20 February 1924), was born in Italy. He was ordained a priest on 1 March 1885 and arrived in Hong Kong on 19 December 1885. Pozzoni was appointed Bishop of Tavia and third Apostolic Vicar of Hong Kong on 12 July 1905. He died in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953153", "title": "Freia (chocolate)", "text": "Freia (chocolate)\n\nFreia is a Norwegian chocolate sweets manufacturing company. The company is famous for Freia Melkesjokolade and Kvikk Lunsj, as well as for other candy and dessert products.\nThe company was founded in 1889, but real success was seen only in 1892, when Johan Throne Holst (1868–1946) took over management. Holst realized that there was a potential market for edible milk chocolate, in addition to the dark chocolate and other minor products Freia were producing at the time. Holst built up Freia to be Norway's leading chocolate manufacturer.\nBy the turn of the century, Freia was the leading Norwegian brand in sweets. Since its inception the factory has been in the Rodeløkka neighborhood in the borough of Grünerløkka in Oslo. \n\nBased on the success in Norway, the Throne-Holst family in 1916 founded the chocolate factory Marabou in Sundbyberg outside of Stockholm in Sweden and later moved in 1943 to the present location in Upplands Väsby. The name Freia (or Freja) could not be used due to a conflicting trademark in Sweden. The name Marabou was chosen instead from the marabou stork.\nThe company's flagship product has since then been the milk chocolate candy bar, Freia Melkesjokolade. On the basis of this famous product, Freia produces several other candy bars, with added nuts, raisins, cookies and Daim pieces. The brand has constantly been marketed in a national romantic spirit – as the essence of everything that is Norwegian. Their slogan is \"Et lite stykke Norge\" (A little piece of Norway). \nFreia was purchased in 1993 by Kraft Foods Nordic (today known as Mondelēz International), for NOK 3 billion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953154", "title": "Anders Jahre", "text": "Anders Jahre\n\nAnders August Jahre (28 May 1891 – 26 February 1982) was a Norwegian shipping magnate. Jahre was educated in law, and worked as a lawyer in Sandefjord from 1916 until 1928. Meanwhile, he was also involved in the whaling industry, and he founded the whaling company A/S Kosmos in 1928, operating out of Sandefjord. He also established Jahres Kjemiske Fabrikker, a processor of whale blubber, as well as establishing a passenger ferry line between Oslo and Kiel.\n\nHe contributed significantly to the development of the city of Sandefjord. Among other things, he financed the building of the new town hall. He was a major philanthropist, and was honoured with The Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav in 1950 and 1962, as well as an honorary professorship at the University of Oslo in 1961. After his death, however, there was much controversy surrounding alleged tax fraud and hidden funds in overseas accounts. In 1984, the Norwegian government put forward a tax claim against the Jahre estate. A series of legal proceedings in the 2000s succeeded in returning part of the fortune to Norway from accounts on the Cayman Islands.\n\nIn 1939 Pankos Operating Company SA was incorporated as a Panamanian corporation. Throughout his lifetime, Anders Jahre steadfastly maintained that he had no ownership interest in Pankos and other foreign companies. Only after his death was it established that Jahre had controlled these entities from incorporation, and that from the 1950s onward he had been the sole owner.\n\nDuring the 1950s the Norwegian authorities commenced an investigation of Jahre's connections to Pankos et al. In response and in order to conceal his ownership interest, Jahre claimed that these companies were owned by Aristotle Onassis. The investigation was put on hold when Jahre suggested that it might be possible for Norwegian companies controlled by Jahre to purchase Pankos et al.'s floating assets from Onassis at market price. Such ships would in that manner become Norwegian-flagged vessels, a goal that at the time was considered important by the Norwegian authorities. This solution was accepted and as a result large sums were transferred abroad to companies ostensibly owned by Onassis. The net result of the transaction, however, was that the cash generated by the sale of the ships was consolidated with Pankos's other assets and became a part of the capital of Jahre's hidden foreign fortune – a fortune that grew substantially in the years thereafter.\n\nTo conceal his connection with Pankos, Jahre secretly changed the name of the company in 1958 to Continental Trust Company (CTC). A further step intended to counter speculations regarding Jahre's ownership of CTC was taken in 1976, when the shares of the company were transferred to a Bahamian (later Caymanian) trust called Continental Foundation. In 1999 Britain's highest court (sitting as the Privy Council) confirmed that Continental Foundation was not a validly established trust.\n\nBecause documents relating to CTC surfaced during an audit of Jahre's businesses in 1979, the tax authorities initiated a new round of investigations. The investigations resulted in a tax claim being levied against Jahre in 1983 in an amount in excess of 335 million Norwegian kroner, the largest tax claim that had ever been assessed in Norway for tax avoidance. The tax claim was contested and eventually accepted in 1993.\n\nIn 1994 the administrator of Jahre's estate came into possession of documents that confirmed Jahre's unlimited control over the above-referenced foreign assets, as well as Jahre's many efforts, over a period of more than 40 years, to conceal that control from the authorities.\n\nAt the time of Jahre's death in 1982 the value of the assets remaining in his foreign fortune totaled some 80 million U.S. dollars. There is no other known instance in Norway of tax avoidance on such a large scale or over such an extended period.\n\nIn 1998 Kosmos AS asserted that it was the true owner of the foreign assets. Litigation ensued, but in 2003 Kosmos AS, by its owner Eikland AS/Morits Skaugen, discontinued the proceeding.\n\nTwo Norwegian judgements, from 2002 and 2003 respectively, reflect that Anders Jahre had ultimate control and effective ownership of the above-referenced foreign fortune during his lifetime.\n\nThrough three separate settlements with, respectively, Jahre's main banking connection (Lazard) and certain Cayman interests, the Jahre estate recovered approximately 720 million Norwegian kroner.\n\nThe amount would have been substantially higher but for the actions of an expatriate Norwegian, Thorleif Monsen, who in the 1970s was based in the Cayman Islands. In that period, Monsen undertook a fiduciary role v.a.v. Jahre and his foreign fortune and acted as the straw man who, among other things, assisted with the transfer of the shares of CTC to Continental Foundation in 1976. After Jahre's death in 1982 Monsen took advantage of his fiduciary position to embezzle substantial assets from the foreign fortune. Those assets were used by Monsen and his children for private investments and personal expenses, as well as to finance legal challenges to the Jahre estate's efforts to recover and repatriate the foreign fortune.\n\nJahre left monies for the two Awards named after him, for research in basic and clinical medicine, and administered by the University of Oslo. The Anders Jahre Senior Medical Prize (the main prize) commenced in 1960, and currently includes a grant of NOK 1,000,000 while the Anders Jahre Prize for Young Scientists commenced in 1965 and includes a grant of NOK 400,000. These awards are amongst the most substantial to be offered in the Nordic biomedical research community. For a full list of winners, visit the Previous winners of the Anders Jahres Medical Research page.\n"}
{"id": "1953156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953156", "title": "Louis Piazzoli", "text": "Louis Piazzoli\n\nLouis Piazzoli, PIME (12 May 1845 – 26 December 1904) was the Apostolic Vicar of Hong Kong from January 11, 1895 to 1904.\n\nBorn in Bergamo, Italy, Piazzoli was ordained as a priest on 1 September 1868.\n\nAppointed Vicar Apostolic of Hong Kong on 11 January 1895 and ordained Bishop on 19 May 1895. He died in Hong Kong.\n\nPiazoli's remains were return to Italy, but return to Hong Kong in 2014 to rest at the crypt at Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953157", "title": "Hilmar Reksten", "text": "Hilmar Reksten\n\nHilmar August Reksten (29 October 1897 – 1 July 1980) was a Norwegian shipping magnate. In the autumn of 1973 he was counted among the world's richest men, possessing a fleet worth about £300,000,000. At his death in 1980, all was lost; he left behind a debt of about £100,000,000.\n\nHilmar Reksten grew up in a small flat at Nordnes, a central quarter of Bergen. He was the eldest of three siblings; there was a younger brother called Hjalmar (1900–1961), and a sister, Sofie. Their mother, Helene Monsen Søndervåg (1869–1902), died when Reksten was only four years old. His father, Erik Reksten (1873–1963), was a stoker and later engineer, spending most of his time out to sea. He sent home money for the children's support. It was not until 1907 that Reksten senior had saved up enough money to stay more at home with his motherless children. The same year he married Hanna Gregoriussen, whom Reksten later began calling \"mother\", and who created a good home for her stepchildren. She gave birth to a son, Karl (1909–1999).\n\nReksten did well at school, and in his free time joined the local buekorps, Nordnæs Bataillon. He had his heart set on a career in shipping, but World War I caused difficult times in that field. In 1917 he started doing unpaid volunteer work for a new shipping firm. Reksten's talent was soon recognized, and he was given a paid job; but his employer went bankrupt in 1919, caused by the recession in shipping following World War I.\n\nReksten studied economy in Cologne helped by 5.000 NOK granted as a scholarship from Hans Westfal-Larsen's shipping company. At the end of 1921, however, the remaining sum was practically worthless, due to the hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic. Still, Reksten eked out an existence during the following three years, writing paid letters from Germany that were published in \"Bergens Tidende\", and thus finishing his studies, returning to Norway in 1924. He had lived in Trajanstrasse in Cologne's old quarter, which roused his lifelong interest in Ancient Rome. When he started his own company in 1929, he named it Trajan after the Roman emperor. His first ship, \"Doris\", was also renamed \"Trajan\". His father, who had been unemployed for over a year, became the ship's first engineer. Reksten ran his firm from Minde, a residential part of Bergen, residing there until 1932. In August 1939 his wife Bjørg Elisabeth Johannessen died, only 36 years old, and after only 14 years of marriage. At that time the family resided in a villa outside of Bergen, with space also for Bjørg Elisabeth's father, while a separate building housed the shipping firm. She left Reksten with five children one of whom: Astrid Johannessen Reksten moved to the United States after marrying another Norwegian man Sigurd Hoyer-Ellefsen. The couple also had five children and moved them all over the United States until they finally divorced in 1987. Astrid now lives in Florida with her eldest son Tommy. She is now the only living child of Hilmar's. Sadly two of her own sons also died, both at very young ages. The remaining two children of Astrid's and Sigurd's, live in Maryland and Georgia besides Tommy.\n\nReksten showed a remarkable capacity for investments; by the time of World War II the widower had six ships in operation. At the German invasion of Norway, he was drafted for military service at the naval centre of Marineholmen in Bergen. In the morning of 9 April 1940 he returned there, dressed in civilian clothes, got past the German guards there and smuggled the Norwegian commander out, along with important, secret papers. In the following days he conspired further, building up a network called \"the Reksten circle\" of people from the resistance movement. Gradually fearing for his life, but also because he wanted to continue his work within shipping, he chose to leave his five children behind while he himself fled to England. He went on to New York City with the intention of building up Nortraship in the United States. Five of his ships were abroad and could help the Allied with the war effort. However one of them, \"Hadrian\", was stuck in Dakar and later in German service, until sunk by the Soviets outside Sevastopol in May 1944.\n\nReksten ended in conflict with more of Nortraship's leaders. In the autumn of 1940 he transferred his ship \"Octavian\" to a company registered in Panama and run by himself, thus breaking the rule that all Norwegian ships be controlled by Nortraship, albeit he claimed to have obtained a dispensation from Norwegian authorities. He was not fired, but transferred to the accounts department. In September 1941 he returned to London, where he cooperated closely with prime minister in exile, Johan Nygaardsvold, foreign minister Trygve Lie and other government members. He negotiated with the British Ministry of War Transport about Norwegian interests and transfer of British tonnage as replacement for Norwegian loss of ships. There were protests against him interfering with Nortraship's interests, and in February 1942 he was returned to New York to evaluate Nortraship and its leaders there. Reksten was particularly critical to the Head of Nortraship Øivind Lorentzen, and felt himself to be more competent at running Nortraship. Instead he was employed at the Nortraship office in Montreal, negotiating with American authorities about renewals of the Norwegian fleet, repairs and indemnity.\n\nSince 1941 he had been Head of the London-based board of Store Norske Spitsbergen Kulkompani. He left for Svalbard in June 1943 on behalf of the company and as a representative of the army, where he was an officer. On Svalbard Reksten, being fluent in German, was permitted to join an expedition meant to conquer a cottage functioning as a German weather station. The expedition succeeded, as the five Germans stationed there had fled in advance; but while Reksten was on guard outside the cottage, a German submarine surfaced in the bay, opening fire at the Norwegians. Reksten was unhurt though and returned to England.\n\nCrossing the Atlantic Ocean a number of times during World War II, Reksten was well aware of the pressure faced by the Norwegian sailors. He made sure that their families in Norway received the sailors' pay throughout the war. His concern for their welfare was genuine. Three of his four ships in Allied traffic were sunk during World War II, and in August 1943 he applied for indemnity paid in advance. He received £70 000, and invested in a British steam ship, \"Marsden\". The Brits accepted this, provided \"Marsden\" sailed under British flag.\n\nAfter the war he kept expanding his business, and in 1974 the company had ships carrying . At this point Reksten’s was the third largest shipping company in Norway - second only to Bergesen and Jahre - and thereby also one of the largest in the world. Reksten's business principle was simple: He refused long-term contracts, presuming that at intervals, political crises would cause an increase in freight rates. For a long period he was proved right. Both when the Korean war broke out in 1950 and the Suez crisis in 1956, Reksten profited. The fact that he, between each crisis, was on the verge of bankruptcy, did not in the least alter his conviction. His \"Norwegian period\" began in 1963 when he placed an order of seven large tank ships, worth 450 million kroner, with Akers mekaniske verksted (= Aker's mechanical workshop), 80% financed by his bank. It was even uncertain if the ships would find commissions when built. \"But I did not have to show a bank guarantee,\" he boasted. \"Because I refused to do so.\" He stood ready with 14 super tankers when the Suez Canal was closed in 1967. In 1968 Reksten placed an order for yet another seven supertankers from Aker, the largest ships the world had seen so far. He contacted other Norwegian shipping magnates, suggesting that they merge into one giant shipping firm. The others withdrew from the plan though, realizing that Reksten intended to dominate the colossus.\n\nIn 1970 Reksten signed the shipping contract of all times, when Libya cut down on oil production, while Nigeria was in chaos, and Syria closed the oil pipeline from the Middle East to the Mediterranean. Twelve of his supertankers were now hired out to British Petroleum under a contract providing Reksten with a net profit of 500 million kroner. The later \"Reksten-case\" originated in this giant sum, which was illegally transferred from Norway and hidden in secret \"mailbox companies\" abroad. To him, the profit was his, and his alone, and privately he had also ventilated the opinion that the tax policy of the Norwegian Labour party made it necessary to remove funds from Norway. Due to this action however, the Reksten empire had few funds to rely on when the freight rates dropped dramatically from 1971 onwards. The market was so slow that five of Reksten's supertankers were laid up, while he was forced to sell out another two. He still had considerable orders placed at Akers mekaniske. This firm was worried to such a degree that it was suggested to declare Reksten bankrupt; but in the winter of 1972/73, freight rates went up again, helped by an increase in the import to USA, as well as fear of rising oil prices.\n\nReksten's declared goal was to become the world's greatest shipping magnate before turning 80, which would happen in 1977. This agenda seems to have reduced his sound judgment to a level where he bought the fleet of Zapata, formerly of shipowner Erling Dekke Næss, in the spring of 1973 for $208 million - 750 million kroner. Rather a triumph for Reksten, Næss being the one who had him removed from Nortraship for irregularities back during World War II. The purchase however was paid for by the profit Reksten had illegally removed from Norway, resulting in him being forced to deny that he was the actual owner. His actions later in 1973 reflect an almost maniacal streak, when he placed an order with Akers mekaniske of seven ships worth 2.3 billion kroner, and started imagining tank ships of one million tons. In the autumn of 1973 he controlled the largest fortune ever owned by a Norwegian. The press celebrated him as one of the world's most successful investors; but in most of Norwegian economic life he and his methods were generally disliked. Even Akers mekaniske that had delivered most of his fleet, frowned upon him. He had fallen out with the five children from his first marriage with Bjørg Elisabeth. From 1952 until his death he was married to Carol Montgomery, with whom he had one child, Grace Reksten, his sole heir.\n\nThe same year his empire started crumbling. Reksten was hit hard by the 1973 oil crisis. The main problem was that many other tank magnates had begun to share his optimism, expecting a further increase in freight rates. He was forced to cancel his billion contract with Aker, resulting in a fine of 320 million kroner. He barely avoided bankruptcy in 1976, by fetching in 100 million kroner from abroad, and have the Norwegian state guarantee for a loan of almost one billion kroner in return for taking over a great portion of the company’s stocks.\n\nIn 1979 he was tried in Bergen courthouse for tax fraud, but acquitted on all eight points except one. Reksten was at the time badly marked by his cancer. The following year he died of his disease, was declared bankrupt post mortem, while the bankruptcy proceedings went on until 1993. After his death it was easier to trace the hidden fortune abroad. The accountancy firm Ernst & Young estimated the size of this fortune to around 213 million kroner. A compromise in 1990 with sole heiress Grace Reksten Skaugen put an end to the hunt for the hidden means: 60 million kroner were transferred, along with a health centre on Lanzarote with an estimated value of 10-12 million kroner. Though, a relatively small amount of his money was put into a trust account, for his grandchildren, in 1973. This was the result of a lawsuit between Hilmar and his daughter, Astrid. Years later allegations were made that Astrid herself was complicit with her husband, in an embezzlement scheme wherein the children never received any of the benefits from that trust income or its account and the living children were left with pennies on the dollar when they finally gained control of the funds.\n\nIn 2014 Bergens Tidende said that \"No other case in Norway can be compared to the Reksten Case, says journalist and author Erling Borgen. He labels Reksten a tax cheat of international dimensions. - Paradoxically enough, Reksten was 'the people's ship owner', while he hoodwinked the people of Norway\".\n\nAmong the general population of Bergen, he was well-liked. In 2014 Bergens Tidende said that \"When the Dagsrevyen reporter published a book about the Reksten Case, then 'Bergen [going] to war against Erling Borgen', wrote VG on the front page November 7, 1981\".\n\nThe lord mayor in Bergen, Nils Handal, asked in 1951 Reksten to help establish Festspillene i Bergen, which were held for the first time in 1953. Reksten contributed financially and was also head of its board for five years. He donated considerable sums to the erection of the museum that now houses Rolf Stenersen's art collection in Bergen, as well as spending around 7.5 million kroner to purchase grounds and houses around the planned concert hall, Grieghallen, so that the construction works got started.\n\nIn 1967, when the school ship \"Statsraad Lehmkuhl\" risked being sold out of the country, Reksten bought the ship and made sure that it remained in Bergen. He supported the Norwegian institute in Rome financially. In 1971 he established a charity fund. Naturally, there was little activity after his bankruptcy; but into the 1990s things started improving, and today \"Rekstensamlingene\" (the Reksten collections) are part of Bergen's cultural scene.\n\nHilmar Reksten married firstly 1925 Bjørg Elisabeth Reksten (1903-1939) and had five children:\n\nHe married secondly 1952 Carol Mowinckel, née Montgomery (1922-1990), widow of shipping magnate Jens Gran Mowinckel (1918–1950), and had one daughter. In 1965 he also adopted her two children from her first marriage:\n\nIn 2014 \"Keiseren\" [\"the emperor\"]—a documentary directed by Lars Skorpen—was released.\n\nA TV documentary on Reksten's life is being produced (2012), based on material from the files of photographer Lene Løtvedt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953160", "title": "Limnic eruption", "text": "Limnic eruption\n\nA limnic eruption, also known as a lake overturn, is a rare type of natural disaster in which dissolved carbon dioxide () suddenly erupts from deep lake waters, forming a gas cloud capable of suffocating wildlife, livestock, and humans. A limnic eruption may also cause tsunamis as the rising displaces water. Scientists believe earthquakes, volcanic activity, and other explosive events can serve as triggers for limnic eruptions. Lakes in which such activity occurs are referred to as limnically active lakes or exploding lakes. Some features of limnically active lakes include:\n\nInvestigations of the Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos casualties led scientists to classify limnic eruptions as a distinct type of disaster event, even though they can be indirectly linked to volcanic eruptions.\n\nDue to the largely invisible nature of the underlying cause (CO gas) behind limnic eruptions, it is difficult to determine to what extent eruptions have occurred in the past. In recent history, this phenomenon has been observed twice. The first recorded limnic eruption occurred in Cameroon at Lake Monoun in 1984, causing asphyxiation and death of 37 people living nearby. A second, deadlier eruption happened at neighbouring Lake Nyos in 1986, this time releasing over 80 million m of CO killing around 1,700 people and 3,500 livestock, again by asphyxiation.\n\nA third lake, Lake Kivu, rests on the border between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, and contains massive amounts of dissolved CO. Sediment samples from the lake taken by Professor Robert Hecky (University of Michigan) showed an event caused living creatures in the lake to go extinct around every 1000 years, and caused nearby vegetation to be swept back into the lake. Limnic eruptions can be detected and quantified on a CO concentration scale by taking air samples of the affected region.\n\nThe Messel pit fossil deposits of Messel, Germany, show evidence of a limnic eruption there in the early Eocene. Among the victims are perfectly preserved insects, frogs, turtles, crocodiles, birds, anteaters, insectivores, early primates, and paleotheres.\n\nFor a lake to undergo a limnic eruption, the water must be nearly saturated with gas. CO was the primary component in the two observed cases (Lake Nyos and Lake Monoun). In Lake Kivu, scientists are concerned about the concentrations of methane gas as well. CO may originate from volcanic gas emitted from under the lake or from decomposition of organic material. Before a lake is saturated, it behaves like an unopened carbonated beverage (e.g., a soft drink): the CO is dissolved in the water. In both the lake and the soft drink, CO dissolves much more readily at higher pressure (Henry's law). This is why bubbles in a can of soda form only after the can is opened; when the pressure is released, the CO comes out of solution. In the case of lakes, the bottom is at a much higher pressure; the deeper it is, the higher the pressure is at the bottom. Therefore, huge amounts of CO can be dissolved in large, deep lakes. CO also dissolves more readily in cooler water, such as that found at a lake bottom. A small rise in water temperature can lead to the release of a large amount of CO.\n\nOnce a lake is saturated with CO, it is very unstable, but a trigger is needed to set off an eruption. In the case of the 1986 Lake Nyos eruption, landslides were the suspected triggers, but a volcanic eruption, an earthquake, or even wind and rain storms are potential triggers. Another possible cause of a limnic eruption is gradual gas saturation at specific depths which can trigger spontaneous gas development. For any of these cases, the trigger pushes some of the gas-saturated water higher in the lake, where pressure is insufficient to keep CO in solution. As bubbles start forming the water is lifted even higher in the lake (buoyancy), where yet more CO comes out of solution. This process forms a column of gas, at which point the water at the bottom of this column is pulled up by suction, and it, too, loses CO in a runaway process. This eruption discharges CO into the air and can displace enough water to form a tsunami.\n\nLimnic eruptions are exceptionally rare for several reasons. First, a CO source must exist (regions with volcanic activity are most at risk). Second, the vast majority of lakes are holomictic (i.e., their layers mix regularly), preventing a buildup of dissolved gases. Only meromictic lakes do not mix and remain stratified, allowing CO to remain dissolved. It is estimated only one meromictic lake exists for every 1,000 holomictic lakes. Finally, a lake must be deep enough to have sufficient pressure to dissolve large amounts of CO.\n\nOnce an eruption occurs, a large CO cloud forms above the lake and expands to the surrounding region. Because CO is denser than air, it has a tendency to sink to the ground, simultaneously displacing breathable air, resulting in asphyxia. CO can make human bodily fluids highly acidic and potentially cause CO poisoning. As victims gasp for air, they actually accelerate asphyxia by inhaling CO gas.\n\nAt Lake Nyos, the gas cloud descended into a nearby village where it settled, killing nearly everyone; casualties as far as were reported. A change in skin color on some bodies led scientists to hypothesize the gas cloud may have contained dissolved acid such as hydrogen chloride, though this hypothesis is disputed. Many victims were found with blisters on their skin, thought to have been caused by pressure ulcers, which were likely caused by low blood oxygen levels in those asphyxiated by carbon dioxide. Nearby vegetation was largely unaffected, except any growing immediately adjacent to the lake. There, vegetation was damaged or destroyed by a high tsunami caused by the violent eruption.\n\nEfforts are under way to develop a solution for removing the gas from these lakes and to prevent a build-up which could lead to another catastrophe. A team led by French scientist Michel Halbwachs began experimenting at Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos in 1990 using siphons to degas the waters of these lakes in a controlled manner. The team positions a pipe vertically in the lake with its upper end above the water surface. Water saturated with CO enters the bottom of the pipe and rises to the top. The lower pressure at the surface allows the gas to come out of solution. Only a small amount of water must be mechanically pumped initially through the pipe to start the flow. As saturated water rises, the CO comes out of solution and forms bubbles. The natural buoyancy of the bubbles draws the water up the pipe at high velocity resulting in a fountain at the surface. The degassifying water acts like a pump, drawing more water into the bottom of the pipe, and creating a self-sustaining flow. This is the same process which leads to a natural eruption, but in this case it is controlled by the size of the pipe.\n\nEach pipe has a limited pumping capacity and several would be required for both Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos to degas a significant fraction of the deep lake water and render the lakes safe. The deep lake waters are slightly acidic due to the dissolved CO which causes corrosion to the pipes and electronics, necessitating ongoing maintenance. There is some concern CO from the pipes could settle on the surface of the lake forming a thin layer of unbreathable air and thus potentially causing problems for wildlife.\n\nIn January 2001, a single pipe was installed by the French-Cameroonian team on Lake Nyos, and two more pipes were installed in 2011 with funding support from the United Nations Development Programme. A pipe was installed at Lake Monoun in 2003 and two more were added in 2006. These three pipes are thought to be sufficient to prevent an increase in CO levels, removing approximately the same amount of gas that naturally enters at the lake bed. In January 2003, an 18-month project was approved to fully degas Lake Monoun, and the lake has since been rendered safe.\n\nThere is some evidence that Lake Michigan in the United States spontaneously degasses (the colloquial term used is \"burps\") on a much smaller scale each fall.\n\nLake Kivu is not only about 1,700 times larger than Lake Nyos, but is also located in a far more densely populated area, with over two million people living along its shores, and the part within the Democratic Republic of the Congo is a site of active armed conflict and low state capacity for the DRC government. Lake Kivu has not reached a high level of CO saturation yet; if the water were to become heavily saturated, a limnic eruption would pose a great risk to human and animal life. Two significant changes in Lake Kivu's physical state have brought attention to a possible limnic eruption: the high rates of methane dissociation and a rising surface temperature. Research investigating historical and present-day temperatures show Lake Kivu's surface temperature is increasing by about 0.12 °C per decade. Lake Kivu is in close proximity to potential triggers: Mount Nyiragongo (an active volcano which erupted in January 2002), an active earthquake zone, and other active volcanoes.\n\nWhile the lake could be degassed in a manner similar to Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos, due to the size of Lake Kivu and the volume of gas it contains, such an operation would be expensive, running into the millions of dollars. A scheme initiated in 2010 to use methane trapped in the lake as a fuel source to generate electricity in Rwanda has led to a degree of CO degassing. During the procedure for extracting the flammable methane gas used to fuel power stations on the shore, some CO is removed in a process known as catalyst scrubbing. It is unclear whether enough gas will be removed to eliminate the danger of a limnic eruption at Lake Kivu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953161", "title": "Lord Chancellor of Scotland", "text": "Lord Chancellor of Scotland\n\nThe Lord Chancellor of Scotland was a Great Officer of State in the Kingdom of Scotland.\n\nHolders of the office are known from 1123 onwards, but its duties were occasionally performed by an official of lower status with the title of Keeper of the Great Seal. From the 15th century, the Chancellor was normally a Bishop or a Peer.\n\nAt the Union, the Lord Keeper of the Great Seal of England became the first Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain, but the Earl of Seafield continued as Lord Chancellor of Scotland until 1708. He was re-appointed in 1713 and sat as an Extraordinary Lord of Session in that capacity until his death in 1730.\n\nIt has been argued that the office is only in abeyance and could potentially be revived. In the event of Scottish independence, the Scottish National Party proposes that the Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament become Chancellor of Scotland, with additional constitutional powers during the absence of the Monarch from Scotland. In this respect, the Chancellor would hold a role similar to that of a Governor-General in the Commonwealth realms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953162", "title": "1980–81 Bundesliga", "text": "1980–81 Bundesliga\n\nThe 1980–81 Bundesliga was the 18th season of the Bundesliga, West Germany's premier football league. It began on 15 August 1980 and ended on 13 June 1981. Bayern Munich were the defending champions.\n\nEvery team played two games against each other team, one at home and one away. Teams received two points for a win and one point for a draw. If two or more teams were tied on points, places were determined by goal difference and, if still tied, by goals scored. The team with the most points were crowned champions while the three teams with the fewest points were relegated to 2. Bundesliga.\n\nHertha BSC, SV Werder Bremen and Eintracht Braunschweig were relegated to the 2. Bundesliga after finishing in the last three places. They were replaced by Arminia Bielefeld, winners of the 2. Bundesliga Northern Division, 1. FC Nürnberg, winners of the Southern Division and Karlsruher SC, who won a two-legged promotion play-off against Rot-Weiss Essen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953163", "title": "Christians for Biblical Equality", "text": "Christians for Biblical Equality\n\nChristians for Biblical Equality (CBE) is a Christian egalitarian organization headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. CBE's Mission Statement reads: \"CBE exists to promote biblical justice and community by educating Christians that the Bible calls women and men to share authority equally in service and leadership in the home, church, and world.\" According to its website, CBE \"is a nonprofit organization of Christian men and women who believe that the Bible, properly interpreted, teaches the fundamental equality of men and women of all ethnic groups, all economic classes, and all age groups, based on the teachings of Scriptures such as Galatians 3:28: 'There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus' (NIV 2011).\"\n\nAccording to \"Christianity Today\", most of those attending a CBE conference it visited were evangelicals with high regard for the Scriptures. The magazine reported a kinship between some CBE members and well-known \"functional egalitarians\" such as biblical deaconess Phoebe, Priscilla and Aquila who taught Apollos \"the way of God,\" Corrie Ten Boom and Salvation Army cofounder Catherine Booth, admired for doing \"God's work.\"\n\nCBE exists to broadly communicate \"the biblical truth that all believers – without regard to gender, ethnicity or class – must exercise their God-given gifts with equal authority and equal responsibility in church, home and world.\" CBE has grown to include members from over 100 denominations and 65 countries.\n\nThe organization is an educational ministry that publishes three award-winning journals, hosts a Web site and a blog, and a weekly e-newsletter. It provides an online bookstore devoted to reviewing and promoting resources on gender and the Bible from an egalitarian (as opposed to complementarian) perspective. It supports grassroots chapters around the world. CBE's scholarly journal, \"Priscilla Papers\", and ministry magazine, \"Mutuality,\" have received various publishing awards.\n\nCBE holds that any interpretation of Scripture that prohibits women from using their spiritual gifts and abilities in ministry constitutes injustice. CBE defines injustice as an abuse of power, taking from others freedom, dignity, resources, and even life itself. CBE considers gender discrimination within the church to be an injustice that harms the Christian church at large and Christian ministry in the world. \n\nCBE holds the following core values:\n\n1. Scripture is our authoritative guide for faith, life, and practice.<br>\n\n2. Patriarchy (male dominance) is not a biblical ideal but a result of sin.<br>\n\n3. Patriarchy is an abuse of power, taking from females what God has given them: their dignity, and freedom, their leadership, and often their very lives.<br>\n\n4. While the Bible reflects patriarchal culture, the Bible does not teach patriarchy in human relationships. <br>\n\n5. Christ’s redemptive work frees all people from patriarchy, calling women and men to share authority equally in service and leadership.<br>\n\n6. God’s design for relationships includes faithful marriage between a man and a woman, celibate singleness and mutual submission in Christian community.<br>\n7. The unrestricted use of women’s gifts is integral to the work of the Holy Spirit and essential for the advancement of the gospel in the world.<br>\n\n8. Followers of Christ are to oppose injustice and patriarchal teachings and practices that marginalize and abuse females and males. \n\nCBE was founded out of concerns over the inability of many women to use their gifts in ministry. Several evangelical leaders, including Gilbert Bilezikian, W. Ward Gasque, Stanley Gundry, Gretchen Gaebelein Hull, Catherine Clark Kroeger, Jo Anne Lyon, Alvera Mickelsen and Roger Nicole, assembled in 1987 to publish their perspective in a new scholarly journal, \"Priscilla Papers\". The group determined that a national organization was needed to provide education, support, and leadership about Biblical equality. They constructed a statement entitled \"Men, Women, and Biblical Equality\" that provides an overview of the Biblical teachings that support women’s full participation in all levels of ministry, as well as mutuality in marriage. The statement was widely published in 1990 in such national forums as \"Christianity Today\" and \"Leadership.\" The Statement has been translated and disseminated into 15 languages. \n\nChristians for Biblical Equality was established on January 2, 1988. Catherine Clark Kroeger served as the first president of the organization. Since 2001, Mimi Haddad has served as CBE’s second president. CBE's papers are held at Catherine Clark Kroeger's family home. \n\nAn Australian Chapter of CBE was established in Melbourne in October 2005. . This has now expanded to three Australian Chapters, in Melbourne, Sydney and Perth.\n\nThe Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood (CBMW) was formed in 1987 to defend a complementarian perspective.\n\nIn 1994, at the CBE's request, three members of the Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood (then-President Dr. Ray Ortlund, Mary Kassian, and Wayne Grudem) met with three of the CBE's leaders in Chicago to discuss potential points of agreement. According to Grudem, both sides overcame some misunderstandings about each other. One result of the meeting was an agreement to work on a joint statement on abuse in marriage, which was drafted by the CBMW with feedback from the CBE. However, before it was to be issued, the CBE's board declined to join the statement. The statement was later published in the CBMW's own newsletter (later renamed the Journal for Biblical Manhood and Womanhood). It has subsequently been published on their website and in many of their publications.\n\nJames Beck, declining the joint statement on behalf of the CBE Board of Directors, stated: \"We do not feel it would be helpful to convene a joint press conference at ETS to issue a joint statement on abuse. CBE’s position on abuse flows directly out of our theological understanding of Scripture and what it teaches about gender and roles. If we attempt to issue a joint statement with an organization that differs fundamentally from us on this issue, we feel both organizations would be giving very mixed signals to their respective constituencies.\" Wayne Grudem commented: “We regret that CBE declined to join us in this statement. If CBE will not join us in something on which we agree (condemning abuse), then I see little hope that they will be willing to join us in constructive dialogue on issues where we disagree. This is unfortunate for the evangelical world.”\n\nBeginning in 1989, CBE has presented international conferences—three-day events consisting of plenary sessions and workshops in such U.S. cities such as Cape Cod, Massachusetts; Saint Paul, Minnesota; Winter Park, Colorado; Wheaton, Illinois; San Diego, California; Orlando, Florida; Dallas, Texas; Portland, Oregon; Denver, Colorado; Toronto, Canada; St. Louis, Missouri; Houston, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Chicago, Illinois; and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The 2019 International Conference will be conducted in Houston, Texas.\n\nInternational off-shore conferences have been held in Durham, England; Bangalore, India; Limuru, Kenya; Medellín, Colombia; and in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953168", "title": "SMRT Buses", "text": "SMRT Buses\n\nSMRT Buses is a bus operator in Singapore. A subsidiary of SMRT Corporation, it traded as Trans Island Bus Services until 10 May 2004.\n\nIn April 1981, Communications & Labour Minister Ong Teng Cheong announced the government would grant a license to an operator that was willing to compete with Singapore Bus Service (SBS), that had operated all services in Singapore since 1973, with the aim of improving service levels. In January 1982, City Shuttle Service operator Singapore Shuttle Bus (SSB) lodged applications with the Ministry of Communications to establish a second bus operator and the Registry Of Vehicles for four bus depots. The applications were approved on 12 March that year, with SSB to take over 11 services in Woodlands and Sembawang from SBS.\n\nA new company, Trans-Island Bus Services, was founded on 31 May 1982, ordering a fleet of 250 buses including 90 Hinos. Operations commenced on 3 April 1983 with 40 buses.\n\nOn 27 April 1987, TIBS was listed on SESDAQ, although Mr Ng Ser Miang retained a majority shareholding. By this stage it operated 361 buses.\n\nIn 1995, as part of the government's plan to make the local bus system more competitive, 16 SBS Transit services were handed over to TIBS along with the tender to operate bus services in the north-east corridor, mainly the developing towns Sengkang and Punggol as well as Bukit Panjang.\n\nIn 1996, TIBS began operations at the now closed Woodlands Regional Bus Interchange, Singapore's first underground bus interchange. It was also the first bus interchange designed to accommodate articulated buses. some of which were designed by world-renowned designer, Pininfarina and was known as the Habit articulated buses, on a large scale in its fleet, in contrast to the double-deckers used by SBS.\n\nIn 1999, SBS Transit was awarded both bus and train services in the entire north-east corridor with the North East line, Sengkang LRT and Punggol LRT by the Land Transport Authority, both based in Sengkang. Eight bus routes affected in the bus tender of Sengkang and Punggol were transferred to SBS Transit. In return, TIBS was awarded to operate 17 routes in the north-west corridor towns of Choa Chu Kang and Bukit Batok, where the handover was done in stages together with the opening of Bukit Panjang LRT. Services 61, 106 and 173 were the last services to be handed over mainly due to extra time involved.\n\nIn February 2001 TIBS joined with RATP Group in an unsuccessful bid to operate the Marina line.\n\nTIBS and SMRT engaged in unsuccessful merger talks in 1999. In July 2001, SMRT launched a takeover bid for TIBS that was accepted. The transaction was completed in December 2001, with TIBS being operated as a wholly owned subsidiary. As part of a corporate rebranding programme, TIBS was rebranded as SMRT Buses in May 2004.\n\nOn 26 November 2012, 170 bus drivers (all of whom were foreign nationals from China), refused to leave their living quarters for work. This reduced bus services to 90% of normal levels. The Ministry of Manpower considered it an illegal strike since the group failed to give a 14 days notice prior to disrupting an essential public service, as is required by the local laws. As a result, five of the strikers were jailed for instigating the strike, and another 29 were deported.\n\nSMRT Buses operates services at Yishun, Sembawang, Woodlands, Bukit Panjang and Choa Chu Kang, and operated one special service, 110. Since 1999, SMRT Buses (and Trans-Island Bus Services) have handed back Sengkang, Punggol, Jalan Kayu and parts of Yishun to SBS Transit. Most of the Bukit Batok routes were transferred to Tower Transit Singapore, except services 61, 868E, and new services 944 and 991.\n\nIn addition, SMRT Corporation has a minibus subsidiary Bus-Plus Services (now trading as Strides) which provides some premium, free shuttle, chartered, and peak-hour peak period bus services throughout Singapore.\n\nAs at 2017, SMRT Buses operates more than 1,450 buses. It was the only operator of articulated buses in Singapore until 2018, when the Seletar Package transitioned to the Tendered Contract (TC) and introduced double-decker buses in 2014. It was the first operator to introduce electronic destination signage (EDS) on its buses since 1990, which is now standard equipment. Some of these recently acquired buses are used for Bus Service Enhancement Programme (BSEP) since 17 September 2012.\n\nIn the 1980s, TIBS operated buses that were mostly of Japanese build such as Hino (such as the initial RK176 and the later HT238K) and Nissan Diesel (mostly the U31 series) \n\nIn 1990, TIBS purchased its first European-built bus, the DAF SB220. Subsequent bus purchases during the 1990s included the Mercedes-Benz O405, the Scania L113CRL, Dennis Lance and Hino HS3KRKK.\n\nIn 1996, TIBS purchased Singapore's first articulated bus, a Mercedes-Benz O405G which was specially airflown from Spain using a Spair Airlines cargo plane. The success of this bus saw TIBS purchase another 314 of such buses from 1996 to 2004.\n\n\n\n\nSMRT Buses operates depots in Ang Mo Kio, Kranji and Woodlands and also partially occupies the Bulim, Seletar and Ulu Pandan depots.\n"}
{"id": "1953171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953171", "title": "Syzygium cumini", "text": "Syzygium cumini\n\nSyzygium cumini, commonly known as Malabar plum, Java plum, or black plum, is an evergreen tropical tree in the flowering plant family Myrtaceae. It is native to the Indian Subcontinent, adjoining regions of Southeast Asia, China and Queensland. The name of the fruit is sometimes mistranslated as blackberry, which is a different fruit in an unrelated order. \"Syzygium cumini\" has been spread overseas from India by Indian emigrants and at present is common in tropical former British colonies.\n\nThe tree was introduced to Florida in 1911 by the USDA, and is also now commonly grown in Suriname, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago. In Brazil, where it was introduced from India during Portuguese colonization, it has dispersed spontaneously in the wild in some places, as its fruits are eagerly sought by various native birds such as thrushes, tanagers and the great kiskadee. This species is considered an invasive in Hawaii.\n\nA slow growing species, it can reach heights of up to 30 m and can live more than 100 years. Its dense foliage provides shade and is grown just for its ornamental value. At the base of the tree, the bark is rough and dark grey, becoming lighter grey and smoother higher up. The wood is water resistant. Because of this it is used in railway sleepers and to install motors in wells. It is sometimes used to make cheap furniture and village dwellings though it is relatively hard to work on.\n\nThe leaves which have an aroma similar to turpentine, are pinkish when young, changing to a leathery, glossy dark green with a yellow midrib as they mature. The leaves are used as food for livestock, as they have good nutritional value.\nDried leaves are also used to make (native) cigarettes by wrapping them around a small piece of tobacco leave, for instance on the Philippine islands.\n\n\"Syzygium cumini\" trees start flowering from March to April. The flowers are fragrant and small, about 5 mm in diameter. The fruits develop by May or June and resemble large berries; the fruit of \"Syzygium\" species is described as \"drupaceous\". The fruit is oblong, ovoid. Unripe fruit looks green. As it matures, its color changes to pink, then to shining crimson red and finally to black color. A variant of the tree produces white coloured fruit. The fruit has a combination of sweet, mildly sour and astringent flavour and tends to colour the tongue purple.\n\nThe seed of the fruit is used in various alternative healing systems like Ayurveda, Unani and Chinese medicine.\n\nThe extract of the fruit and seeds are found be effective against hyperglycemia in diabetic rats.\n\nWine and vinegar are also made from the fruit. It has a high source in vitamin A and vitamin C.\n\nThe 1889 book 'The Useful Native Plants of Australia’ records that the plant was referred to as \"Durobbi\" by Indigenous Australians, and that \"The fruit is much eaten by the natives of India; in appearance it resembles a damson, has a harsh but sweetish flavour, somewhat astringent and acid. It is much eaten by birds, and is a favourite food of the large bat or flying fox. (Brandis).\"\n\nNutritional information for \"S. cumini\" leaves and fruit are detailed here.\n\nKrishna is also known to have four symbols of the jambu fruit on his right foot as mentioned in the Srimad Bhagavatam commentary (verse 10.30.25), \"Sri Rupa Chintamani\" and \"Ananda Candrika\" by Srila Visvanatha Chakravarti Thakura.\n\nIn Maharashtra, \"S. cumini\" leaves are used in marriage pandal decorations. A song from the film 'Jait re Jait (1977)' mentions the fruit in the song 'Jambhul Piklya Zaadakhali'. The seeds are sometimes used in herbal teas to treat diabetes.\n\nA story from the great Indian epic, Mahabharatha is named Jambulaakhyan, that is related to this fruit.\n\nAccording to Hindu mythology, Lord Rama subsisted on the fruit in the forest for 14 years during his exile from Ayodhya. Because of this, many Hindus regard \"S. cumini\" fruit as a 'Fruit of the Gods'.\n\nBesides the fruits, wood from Neredu tree (as it is called in the region's language, Telugu) is used in Andhra Pradesh to make bullock cartwheels and other agricultural equipment. The timber of Neredu is used to construct doors and windows. Hindus use a sizable branch of the tree to inaugurate the beginning of marriage preparations and plant it in a place a pandal will be erected. Culturally, beautiful eyes are compared to this fruit. In the great epic of India Mahabharatha, Krishnas' (Vishnu) body colour is compared to this fruit as well.\n\nLegend speaks of Auvaiyar (also Auvayar), of Sangam period (Tamil literature), and Naval Pazham in Tamil Nadu. Auvaiyar, believing to have achieved everything that is to be achieved, said to have been pondering over her retirement from Tamil literary work while resting under Naval Pazham tree. But she was met with and was wittily jousted by a disguised Murugan (regarded as one of the guardian deities of Tamil language), who later revealed himself and made her realize that there is still a lot more to be done and learnt. Following this awakening, Auvaiyar is believed to have undertaken a fresh set of literary works, targeted at children.\n\nThe fruit, locally known as Njaval Pazham is particularly plentiful in Kollam.\n\nThis tree is commonly found across Karnataka, particularly in rural parts of the state. \nThe name of the fruit in Kannada is Nerale Hannu (ನೇರಳೆಹಣ್ಣು).\n\n"}
{"id": "1953184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953184", "title": "1979–80 Bundesliga", "text": "1979–80 Bundesliga\n\nThe 1979–80 Bundesliga was the 17th season of the Bundesliga, West Germany's premier football league. It began on 11 August 1979 and ended on 31 May 1980. Hamburger SV were the defending champions.\n\nEvery team played two games against each other team, one at home and one away. Teams received two points for a win and one point for a draw. If two or more teams were tied on points, places were determined by goal difference and, if still tied, by goals scored. The team with the most points were crowned champions while the three teams with the fewest points were relegated to their respective 2. Bundesliga divisions.\n\nArminia Bielefeld, 1. FC Nürnberg and SV Darmstadt 98 were relegated to the 2. Bundesliga after finishing in the last three places. They were replaced by Bayer Leverkusen, winners of the 2. Bundesliga Northern Division, TSV 1860 Munich, winners of the Southern Division and Bayer Uerdingen, who won a two-legged promotion play-off against SpVgg Bayreuth.\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953185", "title": "Timoleon Raimondi", "text": "Timoleon Raimondi\n\nTimoleon Raimondi (5 May 1827 – 27 September 1894) () was the Last Prefect and First Vicar Apostolic of Hong Kong (17 November 1874).\n\nRaimondi was born in Milan, Italy. He was the younger brother of Antonio Raimondi, a prominent naturalist who worked in Peru. Timoleon was ordained as a priest on 25 May 1850. He was appointed as prefect of Hong Kong in Hong Kong on 27 December 1868.\n\nRaimondi was also:\n\n\nHe died in Hong Kong on 27 September 1894.\n\nRaimondi College in the Mid-levels, Hong Kong Island was named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953195", "title": "1978–79 Bundesliga", "text": "1978–79 Bundesliga\n\nThe 1978–79 Bundesliga was the 16th season of the Bundesliga, West Germany's premier football league. It began on 11 August 1978 and ended on 9 June 1979. 1. FC Köln were the defending champions.\n\nEvery team played two games against each other team, one at home and one away. Teams received two points for a win and one point for a draw. If two or more teams were tied on points, places were determined by goal difference and, if still tied, by goals scored. The team with the most points were crowned champions while the three teams with the fewest points were relegated to their respective 2. Bundesliga divisions.\n\nTSV 1860 Munich, 1. FC Saarbrücken and FC St. Pauli were relegated to the 2. Bundesliga after finishing in the last three places. They were replaced by Arminia Bielefeld, winners of the 2. Bundesliga Northern Division, SV Darmstadt 98, winners of the Southern Division and 1. FC Nürnberg, who won a two-legged promotion play-off against Rot-Weiss Essen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953196", "title": "Brzezinka", "text": "Brzezinka\n\nBrzezinka (, ) is a village in southern Poland, about from Oświęcim (\"Auschwitz\"), in the district of Gmina Oświęcim, Oświęcim County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship.\n\nThe village is near the confluence of the rivers Vistula and Soła, at the very center of the Vistula Valley, 240 meters above sea level. By the time of the construction of the first railroad station in 1856 the station was on Brzezinka's territory, but later it was transplanted to nearby Oświęcim (Auschwitz).\n\nTwo major factories are found there: Maszyn Górniczych \"Omag\", which in the 1930s, called Spółka Akcyjna Zjednoczenia Fabryk Maszyn i Samochodów \"Oświęcim\" (Auschwitz United Machinery and Automobile Manufacturing Inc.) produced the \"Oświęcim-Praga\" which won a Monte Carlo Rally; and the Polinova Company (popularly known as Papownia).\n\nThe name of the village stems from birch trees (Polish: \"brzoza\"). It was first mentioned in 1385. From 1440 to 1483 Brzezinka was owned by Jan Brzeziński.\n\nPolitically the village belonged then to the Duchy of Oświęcim, formed in 1315 in the process of feudal fragmentation of Poland and was ruled by a local branch of Piast dynasty. In 1327 the duchy became a fee of the Kingdom of Bohemia. In 1457 Jan IV of Oświęcim agreed to sell the duchy to the Polish Crown, and in the accompanying document issued on 21 February the village was mentioned as \"Brzesinka\".\n\nThe territory of the Duchy of Oświęcim was eventually incorporated into Poland in 1564 and formed Silesian County of Kraków Voivodeship. Upon the First Partition of Poland in 1772 it became part of the Austrian Kingdom of Galicia. After World War I and fall of Austria-Hungary it became part of Poland. It was annexed by Nazi Germany at the beginning of World War II. After this annexation the village was chosen by the Germans as the site of their Auschwitz-Birkenau (Auschwitz II) death camp, the centerpiece of the Final Solution to the Jewish Question, whose remains exist along with Auschwitz I as state museums to commemorate the victims of Nazism and the Holocaust. After the war it was restored to Poland.\n\nOn 1 April 2007 Brzezinka was featured on The Amazing Race: All-Stars.\n"}
{"id": "1953197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953197", "title": "Get a Clue", "text": "Get a Clue\n\nGet a Clue is a 2002 Disney Channel Original Movie starring Lindsay Lohan as Lexy Gold, a teenage high school student who investigates a mystery after one of her teachers goes missing. The movie stars Bug Hall as a boy who helps her, Ian Gomez as the missing teacher, Brenda Song as Lexy's best friend, Ali Mukaddam as another student, and Dan Lett as Lexy's father. The film premiered on the Disney Channel on June 28, 2002. It was directed by Maggie Greenwald and was written by Alana Sanko.\n\nLexy Gold (Lindsay Lohan) lives amongst the wealthy and elite of Manhattan, New York. Clad in Prada, she prides herself on her ability to get the scoop and serve it up in her school newspaper's advice column. She competes for status on the newspaper with middle-class Jack Downey (Bug Hall), the editor. When an article and photograph Lexy has taken of her teacher, Mr. Orlando Walker (Ian Gomez), is published in the city's daily paper, he goes missing and his car is found in the East River. With help from Lexy's best friend Jen (Brenda Song) and one of her schoolmates Gabe (Ali Mukaddam), Lexy and Jack set out to solve the mystery behind the disappearance.\n\nTheir teacher, Miss Gertrude Dawson (Amanda Plummer), becomes involved as she and Mr. Walker were romantically involved. Jack receives a message from Mr. Walker about a scholarship. Lexy and Jack search his old apartment, where they run into Detective Charles Meany (Charles Shaughnessy), who is searching for Mr. Walker. Jen and Gabe watch Miss Dawson at Gabe's house with a video camera to keep an eye on her. Lexy and Jack later meet Mr. Walker's mother, Mrs. Petrossian (Sylvia Lennick), at her house. They discover that Mr. Walker changed his identity after being accused of stealing $10,000,000. Mr. Walker later receives a letter from the real person who stole the money, framing Mr. Walker.\n\nThe group and Mr. Walker meet at a hotel to pretend to receive the money. Miss Dawson shows up at the hotel and is taken hostage by the real thief. Lexy and Jack search the halls for the man, who is revealed to be Detective Meany, whose real name is Falco Grandville, Mr. Walker's boss when he worked at a bank in Arizona, and the man who had framed Mr. Walker for the money theft. The team catches up with him and he is later arrested. It is later revealed that Mr. Walker's mother found a brooch at Falco's office by chance and decided to keep it; Falcon has purchased the expensive canary diamond brooch to hide the stolen $10 million, and blamed Walker for its loss. After Mr. Walker is pronounced a free man at last, he later asks Miss Dawson to marry him. At the end, it shows the wedding with Jack, Lexy, Jen, and Gabe. Jack and Lexy share a moment between themselves before the four teens walk down the street talking about going bowling.\n\n\nProduction began in May 2001. \"Get a Clue\" was written by Alana Sanko; the script was still unfinished by the time filming had begun. Maggie Greenwald was confirmed to direct and Lindsay Lohan was cast as Lexy Gold, ending her three-movie deal with The Walt Disney Company. The film was primarily filmed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, with some of the exterior scenes filmed on location in Manhattan, New York. Millington Prep, the school Lexy and her friends attend, was filmed at Bishop Strachan School in Canada.\n\nThe film was originally to be released in January 2002 as the Disney Channel Movie of the Month. A well-concealed reshoot took place in late 2001 to film a different ending concluding that the villain in the film was Meany. In the original ending, the villain turned out to be Mrs. Stern, a teacher at Lexy's school who had known Mr. Walker while he was living in Arizona. This ending was shown on the DVD (though the viewer has the option to watch either ending when the movie reaches 61 minutes, with the Mrs. Stern ending shown in a different aspect ratio than the rest of the movie). The film was heavily promoted and frequently re-aired during its initial summer. A song by the band Prozzak, \"Get a Clue\", appeared in the film and the music video was shown on Disney Channel at the time of its release. The name of the band was changed to \"Simon and Milo\", the characters depicted in the music video so their band name would not be associated with the drugs.\n"}
{"id": "1953217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953217", "title": "Kaito Kuroba", "text": "Kaito Kuroba\n\n, the true identity of the gentleman thief , is a fictional character and protagonist of the \"Magic Kaito\" manga series created by Gosho Aoyama. His father Toichi Kuroba was the original Kaito Kid before being killed by an unknown organization, while his mother was a former phantom thief known as the Phantom Lady. Kaito Kuroba then takes on the role of Kid after learning the organization is after a gemstone called Pandora and decides to find and destroy it.\n\nKaito Kuroba has also made significant appearances in Aoyama's \"Case Closed\" series. His strong resemblance to the protagonist of this series, Jimmy Kudo, allows Kaito to impersonate him without a mask. He is also voiced by the same voice actors as Jimmy. When \"Case Closed\" was localized into English, Viz Media chose the rōmaji Kaito Kid for the manga, while Funimation Entertainment referred to him as Phantom Thief Kid in the anime. Shogakukan Asia also chose to use Kaito Kid.\n\nKaito Kuroba is a seventeen-year-old high school student who is an adept magician due to the influence of his father, Toichi Kuroba. Eight years prior to the series, Toichi had mysteriously died and was also the last time the Kaito Kid was spotted. In the present time, Kaito discovers a secret room in his home that was set up by his father to reveal itself on that very day. Finding the Kaito Kid's gadgets and costume in the room, Kaito dons the disguise and decides to confront Kid who has recently resurfaced after his eight years of absence. Kaito discovers Kid to be Konosuke Jii, his father's butler, who ascertains Toichi was the first Kaito Kid. Jii reveals his took on the role as Kid to lure out Toichi's murderer. Upon learning that his father was murdered, Kaito continues the role of the Kaito Kid as he searches for his father's killer.\n\nAs the Kaito Kid, Kaito uses his skills of perfect disguise and the gadgets his father left him to complete his heists. The most prominent of those gadgets are his cape which transforms into a hang-glider, a gun that shoots sharp metallic playing cards, and smoke bombs. To lure out the murderers, Kaito adopts a tradition of sending a note of his intending theft to the location beforehand. After a successful heist, Kaito returns the stolen treasures. As the Kaito Kid, Kaito eventually meets the organization who killed his father. He discovers they are searching for the gemstone called which grants immortality if the water it emits during Volley's Comet is drank. Pandora is hidden in a larger gemstone and can only be seen if shone under the moonlight. Kaito decides to search for Pandora with the intention of destroying it and begins focusing his heists on large gemstones. As such, he begins the tradition of checking gemstones from his heists under the moonlight before returning them to their rightful owners.\n\nKaito Kuroba, as the Kaito Kid, appears in Aoyama's manga series \"Case Closed\" as an antagonist and occasional ally to his rival, Conan. He is introduced as Kaito 1412, but is referred to as Kid later on. He is confronted by the protagonist of the series, Jimmy Kudo; teen detective turned child under the alias Conan Edogawa, who often foils his plans but Kid still eludes capture. Kaito also garners the attention of Jirokichi Suzuki who wants to capture Kid for fame. In the series, it is revealed that Jimmy's father Booker Kudo was the one who came up with the Kaito 1412 and Kaito Kid moniker. In the \"Case Closed\" film series, Kaito reveals he knows Conan is actually Jimmy. Due to Kaito's strong resemblance to Jimmy, he is able to disguise himself as Jimmy Kudo without a mask.\n\nKaito has made six appearances in the films. In \"\", he steals a fabergé egg to return to its rightful owner while helping Jimmy on his investigation for an assassin. In \"\", he continues his search for Pandora as Jimmy attempts to impede his heist. Kaito makes his third appearance in \"\", where he indirectly helps Jimmy solve an old murder. His fourth appearance takes place in \"\" where Jirokichi baits him with a large gemstone on an airship as he attempts to capture him. He is also featured in \"\" and \"\".\n\nOn a \"Case Closed\" character popularity poll, Kaito ranked as the top most popular character of the series. On an online poll by Conan Movie.jp, he placed second with 19% of the votes. John Sinnott from DVD Talk considers Kaito Kuroba as an interesting character as he was able to escape from Jimmy Kudo, the protagonist of \"Case Closed\". Rebecca Silverman, writing for Anime News Network, has also described him as \"interesting\", noting that it \"is a lot of fun\" to see how he can defy Jimmy, and be a \"foil figure\" to him. SequentialTart.com's Amanda Tarbet remarks the Phantom Thief Kid to be an amusing character due to his gentlemanly manners and skills.\n"}
{"id": "1953222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953222", "title": "Cash advance", "text": "Cash advance\n\nA cash advance is a service provided by most credit card and charge card issuers. The service allows cardholders to withdraw cash, either through an ATM or over the counter at a bank or other financial agency, up to a certain limit. For a credit card, this will be the credit limit (or some percentage of it).\n\nCash advances often incur a fee of 3 to 5 percent of the amount being borrowed. When made on a credit card, the interest is often higher than other credit card transactions. The interest compounds daily starting from the day cash is borrowed.\n\nSome \"purchases\" made with a credit card of items that are viewed as cash are also considered to be cash advances in accordance with the credit card network's guidelines, thereby incurring the higher interest rate and the lack of the grace period. These often include money orders, prepaid debit cards, lottery tickets, gaming chips, mobile payments and certain taxes and fees paid to certain governments. However, should the merchant not disclose the actual nature of the transactions, these will be processed as regular credit card transactions. Many merchants have passed on the credit card processing fees to the credit card holders in spite of the credit card network's guidelines, which state the credit card holders should not have any extra fee for doing a transaction with a credit card.\n\nUnder card scheme rules, a credit card holder presenting an accepted form of identification must be issued a cash advance over the counter at any bank which issues that type of credit card, even if the cardholder cannot give their PIN.\n"}
{"id": "1953223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953223", "title": "Regional Express Airlines", "text": "Regional Express Airlines\n\nRegional Express (also known as Rex) is an Australian airline based in Mascot, New South Wales. It operates scheduled regional services. It is Australia's largest regional airline outside the Qantas group of companies and serves New South Wales, South Australia, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia. Its entire fleet consists of 57 Swedish built Saab 340 turboprop aircraft seating 33, 34 or 36 passengers.\n\nThe airline was established in 2002 when the Australiawide Airlines consortium (set up by former Ansett Australia employees) acquired Hazelton Airlines and Kendell Airlines, merged the two companies and started operations in August 2002 as Rex. In 2005, Australiawide Airlines was renamed Regional Express Holdings and partially floated on the Australian Securities Exchange. On 30 November 2005, Rex announced the acquisition of the Dubbo-based Air Link, another regional airline.\n\nIn October 2007, Rex expanded into Queensland when it commenced operations between Brisbane and Maryborough. This exacerbated an existing problem within the company of not having enough pilots to crew its flights (due to the expansion of larger airlines, especially Jetstar Airways and Virgin Blue), and Rex suspended operations out of Brisbane (and from Sydney to Cooma during the summer \"low season\" for this route to the NSW ski fields) in November 2007. To provide a medium-term solution to the pilot shortage, Rex announced that it was establishing a cadet-pilot flight-training programme. At the same time, Rex announced the impending retirement of Managing director Geoff Breust.\n\nIn November 2015, Rex announced the resumption of services to the NSW Snowy Mountains in conjunction with Snowy Mountains Airport Corporation. The flights commenced in March 2016.\nIn December 2015, Rex announced that they would be commencing operations in Western Australia in February the following year after being selected by the WA Government to be the operator of regulated RPT routes after a tender process. Initially operating between Perth to Albany and Esperance, in July 2018 the Western Australian operations expanded to include Carnarvon and Monkey Mia. It brings Rex's weekly flights to some 1,500 across 60 destinations.\n\nAs of April 6th 2020, REX has signficantly scaled back all its regional services due to the CoronaVirus Covid-19 Pandemic, continuing to only offer Government Subsidised services within Queensland and Western Australia, and 1 flight a week between all 54 regional and remote communities within its route network. Adelaide - Port Augusta, Sydney - Newcastle & Sydney - Armidale have been cancelled altogether as well. REX has publicly stated on many occasions in the last 2 weeks that without this assistance, they would go bankrupt. According to the graph in the report, passenger numbers are down 99% from this time 2019.\n\nRex operates the world's largest fleet of Saab 340 aircraft. The delivery of 25 ex-American Eagle Airlines Saab 340B \"Plus\" aircraft started in mid-2007 and enabled the expansion of services and the phase-out of the airline's Saab 340As, and some older B models. The 340B \"Plus\" has a quieter and more comfortable interior.\n\nIn July 2008 the company announced that all of its 340As would be phased out; however one rejoined the fleet in July 2015 after a 7-year stint with REX' subsidiary airline Pel-Air and remains in service as of January 2019.\n\nThe airline also previously operated some Metro 23 aircraft seating 19 passengers but were phased out.\n\nAs of June 2019, the airline operates an all Saab 340 fleet with 3 variants of the type.\n\n\nIn November 2007 Regional Express Airlines and Mangalore Airport Pty Limited created a joint venture pilot academy called the Civil Aviation Training Academy, based at Mangalore Airport in Victoria. In April 2008 Regional Express Airlines fully acquired the Civil Aviation Training Academy and it was renamed to Australian Airline Pilot Academy.\n\nOn 18 February 2009, Regional Express Airlines announced that the Australian Airline Pilot Academy (AAPA) would be relocated from Mangalore Airport to Wagga Wagga Airport in partnership with the City of Wagga Wagga starting in April 2009.\n\nOn 27 May 2010, the AAPA campus at Wagga Wagga Airport was officially opened by Federal Minister for Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development and Local Government, Anthony Albanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953242", "title": "Muddy Water", "text": "Muddy Water\n\nMuddy Water may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953261", "title": "Recycling bin", "text": "Recycling bin\n\nA recycling bin (or recycle bin) is a container used to hold recyclables before they are taken to recycling centers. Recycling bins exist in various sizes for use inside and outside homes, offices, and large public facilities. Separate containers are often provided for paper, tin or aluminum cans, and glass or plastic bottles, or may be commingled.\n\nMany recycling bins are designed to be easily recognizable, and are marked with slogans promoting recycling on a blue or green background along with the universal recycling symbol. Others are intentionally unobtrusive. Bins are sometimes in different colors so that user may differentiate between the types of materials to be placed in them. While there is no universal standard, the color blue is commonly used to indicate a bin is for recycling in public settings.\n\nRecycling bins or cans, or carts are a common element of municipal kerbside collection programs, which frequently distribute the bins to encourage participation.\n"}
{"id": "1953265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953265", "title": "Cantilan, Surigao del Sur", "text": "Cantilan, Surigao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCantilan is considered the \"Cradle of Towns\" in Surigao del Sur. It originally encompassed the whole area of Carcanmadcarlan or the present towns of Carrascal, Cantilan, Madrid, Carmen and Lanuza.\n\nCantilan is the second northernmost municipality of CarCanMadCarLan and so also the second northernmost municipality of the province. The neighbouring municipalities are Carrascal in the north-west and Madrid in the south-east.\n\nCantilan is politically subdivided into 17 barangays. Buntalid and Magasang were constituted as barrios in 1956.\n\nCantilan, like the whole island of Mindanao is considered having a tropical climate, with an average monthly precipitation of 308.66 mm (12.5 inches). However, its wettest season fall between the months of November until March. Dry season starts between April to September with brief afternoon showers and thunderstorms locally called sobasco.\n\nCantilan existed as a settlement for more than three centuries as early as 1622.\n\nAccording to legend, the word Cantilan originated from the big shell of a bivalve locally called, \"\"Tilang\"\". A couple with beautiful daughters lived close to the location of the big shell. When suitors came to visit the daughters and were asked their destination, they would answer, “\"Can Tilang\"” (meaning “to Tilang’s\"). Eventually, \"\"Can Tilang\"\" became \"\"Cantilan\"\".\n\nAccording to sources, it was created by virtue of the Spanish Royal Decree of 1768 known as Maura Law. Another source states however, that Fr. Valerio de San Agustin implemented it in 1782 at \"\"Daan Lungsod,\"\" the old town in the coastal area. It was populated with people from Bayuyo, Ilihan and Calagdan. They constructed a fortification, a \"Kuta\", (Fort) made of limestone later named as Baluarte de Señor San Miguel, located across the river in the modern Cantilan.\n\nCaraga is obviously named after the old, historic Caraga, an extensive landmass covering several provinces, in the northeastern seaboard of Mindanao whose existence outdated the arrival of the Spaniards in this country.\n\nThe people of the old Calagan were originally from Ilihan (now Panikian), Calagan (now Calagda-an), Parasao (now Palasao) and Bayuyo (now Union, Manga and San Antonio).\n\n1521 – For the first time, Antonio Pigafetta, the chronicler of Magellan's epic voyage around the world, called this region \"Calagam\" or Calagan\".\n\nCalagan was among the three choices for Ferdinand Magellan to dock for provisions and trade. \"Magellan was anxious to resume his voyage and inquired which were the best ports for provisions and trade, wishing to turn of his many articles of barter into gold and spices. He was told that there were three – Ceylon (Leyte), Zzubu (Cebu) and Calagan, but that Zzubu was the largest and had the most traffic.\"\n\nMarch 31, 1521 – The celebrated \"\"Primera Misa\"\", an Easter Sunday Mass, was held in the Philippine Territory on the order of Ferdinand Magellan. Two of its prominent attendees were the Butuan brother kings: Rajah Kolambu of Butuan and Rajah Siagu of Calagan.\n\nJanuary 25, 1571 – Garcia Sierras Chacon was appointed to rule the district of Surigao and Parasao (Cantilan), an encomienda.\n\nthe Northeastern portion of Mindanao to be raised to the status of a province. This \"distrito\" was called \"Provincia de Caraga\" with Tandag as the capital. \n\nCantilan has existed as a settlement for more than three centuries on the two barrios of Bayoyo and Kalagda-an which was then included in the Spanish administration of Tandag as early as 1709. The settlement of Ilihan was also part of the Cantilan area that time.\n\nPrior to the Spanish regime, inhabitants of Cantilan were Bagani Bankayan Sandigan people, who descended from Malay immigrants. At times the early settlers were forced to join and fight marauding bands who came for slaves and plundered. In the process, they built stone walls and a watchtower as can be shown on some ruins of these structures which still exist on the sea coast.\n\nThe Spanish arrived and established a settlement at \"\"Daan Lungsod\"\" (Old Town) in the early 1700s and (Cantilan was separated from Tandag in 1791). The Spanish introduced Christianity and a governmental administration headed by a priest.\n\nCompulsory taxation was later featured from Spanish rule. Other legacies of the Spanish time were the Spanish name given to the local inhabitants and the Spanish words which were added to the local language. The Jesuit fathers constructed a church in Cantilan in the 1890s – part of the walls still stands near the new church constructed in 1959.\n\nDuring the Spanish time, local people were frequently attacked by Muslims and so a fort was built at Daan Lungsod which aided in repelling five attacks, ending once and for all these raids. Other problems were diseases (especially smallpox and other epidemics) were on the rise added with disasters like a typhoon.\n\nIn 1856, Daan Lungsod was destroyed by a disastrous typhoon on the night of October 14. Beginning at midnight and continuing through the entire next day. A typhoon and series of storm surges rolled over the town sweeping away all but one house and killing 30 people as well as destroying crops and livestock. The ruins of Daan Lungsod can still be seen on the other side of Cantilan River, but after the storm, it was decided to rebuild the town on its present site.\n\nBefore the storm, residents often crossed the river to buy fish from a woman named Tilang. When asked where they were going, they replied, \"Adto Kan Tilang\"; and the place gradually became known as Kantilang (Cantilan to Spanish). After the storm, the new town was built in this area, across the river and was named Kantilang or Cantilan.\n\nThroughout the period, Cantilan remained primarily a fishing and agricultural settlement, as it is today. The area was larger at that time because it comprised the present municipalities of Cantilan, Carrascal, Madrid, Carmen and Lanuza (CarCanMadCarLan)\n\nThe first Americans set foot in Surigao in 1904 and were met some active resistance. But fighting died out after a relatively short time. The main American contribution to Filipino life was the restructuring of governmental administration and the public schools. (Some early teachers were Mr. Bonnie, Mr. & Mrs. Edward Taylor, and Mr. William Hotchkiss).\n\nDuring World War II, Cantilangnons were very active as guerillas fighting against the Japanese, who established a garrison in Cantilan from June 1942 to 1944.\n\nThe Japanese were headquartered in the present day Municipal Hall and formations were often held at the plaza. The people were afraid and forced to flee to the mountains or to the outlying island to avoid the Japanese. In some barrios, like Barangay General Island, the population increased on account of the mass evacuation. Peacetime at last came when the Japanese finally withdraw their troops from Cantilan because of the invasion of the Americans in Leyte.\n\nYears rolled along after full Independence was granted to the Philippines in 1946. Cantilan became part of the new province of Surigao del Sur in 1960. It had also taken and fixed its present boundaries at that time, with the creation of Madrid as a new municipality.\n\nCantilan remains primarily a rural, agricultural and fishing municipality, but its residents are well known for their high standing standard of education obtained by a large number of professionals who hail from Cantilan.\n\nIn more recent times, the logging and timber industry has had an impact in Cantilan, both logging and veneer manufacturing plant operating in this town. It has also a potential for mining, although no large-scale operations have as yet been undertaken.\n\nThe inhabitants of Cantilan are called Cantilangnons. Its unique dialect is called Cantelangnon, a variant of the Surigaonon language.\n\nThe main part is agriculture (rice, coconut palms), animal breeding (water buffalos, pigs and chickens/roosters) and coastal fishing.\n\nPoints of interest:\n\nPedicabs roam around the streets of Cantilan.\n\nBuses (\"Bachelor Express\"), Vans and Jeepneys ply from Cantilan to Tandag and Surigao City v.v. on the coast-road of Surigao-Tandag. Roads are semi-concrete.\n\nInter-island vessels like 2Go ply the Manila-Surigao City routes on regular schedules. Cokaliong also has schedules from Cebu-Surigao City routes on a daily basis. The harbour in the Cantilan river can be used by Pump boats only. On the east side of the Capungan peninsula that separates the Lanuza bay from Carrascal bay exists \"Consuelo Port\" which is a harbour for bigger ships.\n\nThe closest airports are Surigao Airport (IATA: SUG, ICAO: RPMS) and Butuan Airport (IATA: BXU, ICAO: RPME). The Tandag Airfield (IATA: TDG, ICAO: RPMW) has limited flights from Manila and Cebu City which started on June 30, 2014.\n\nThe Sirong Festival is a mardi-gras parade participated by different contingents from other towns. A cash price and a trophy awaits to the winner of the street dancing competition and the final showdown (\"2009 Sirong Festival Champion (SURIGAO CITY, SDN Contingent)\").\n\nCantilan has both public and private schools from elementary, secondary and tertiary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953267", "title": "The Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios", "text": "The Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios\n\nThe Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios and Other Stories is a book of short stories by Canadian author Yann Martel. First published as a paperback by Knopf Canada in the spring of 1993, it received little attention outside Canada until 2004, after Martel's award-winning \"Life of Pi\" gained worldwide popularity and people became interested in the author's work.\n\nThe book is composed of four short stories. The 2004 Canongate Books edition is updated with an author's note in which Martel writes that he is \"happy to offer these four stories again to the reading public, slightly revised, the youthful urge to overstate reined in, the occasional clumsiness in prose, I hope, ironed out.\" All the stories except \"Manners of Dying\" have a distinct auto-biographical feel to them, the protagonist being a young white male university student having an existential crisis. In these stories, especially the first two, references to other cultural noteworthies such as \"The Little Prince\" and \"Almayer's Folly\" are noticeable. Most of the themes explored in these more youthful works are employed in the inner workings of the \"Life of Pi\".\n\nThe title story revolves around a man who, along with a younger friend who is dying of AIDS, invents stories about a family of Italian immigrants living in Helsinki, Finland to help pass the time with his friend. To organize the plot of their strange attempt at fiction they use Encyclopædia Britannica extracts from each year starting from 1901 until present (1986) metaphorically to write each chapter. That story won the Canadian Journey Prize in 1991. In his author's note, Martel states that \"Helsinki\" was adapted to the stage and to the screen.\n\nThis story is about a young man who visits a friend in Washington D.C.. The friend works at PricewaterhouseCoopers and is too busy with his demanding job to spend time with his guest. The young man, by accident, stumbles upon a performance of classical music by Vietnam War-veterans and is thrilled by the composer's sheer ingenuity. It ends with an extended conversation with the composer about artistic impulses, work and life.\n\nIn this epistolary novel Mr. Harry Parlington, warden at the Cantos Correctional Institution, writes to a Mrs. Barlow describing how her son, Kevin, executed in prison, experienced and faced his death. But multiple letters describe in totally different details his various \"manners\" of \"dying.\" Examples of the chapter titles are: \"\"Manner of Dying 985\"\", \"\"Manner of Dying 760\"\". It is not clear which of those \"manners of dying\" Kevin Barlow actually experienced (if any) or which was sent to the mother (if any); they are presented with ambiguity, as potential and often conflicting possibilities. This story was adapted to a film by Jeremy Peter Allen, \"Manners of Dying\". \n\nAn Australian named Kevin Barlow was sentenced to death by hanging in Malaysia in 1986, for possession of a small quantity of heroin. This caused a ten-year rift between Australia and Malaysia.\n\nAn anecdotal story about a young man who visits his talkative grandmother and while rummaging in her attic finds a machine that makes mirrors out of 4 ingredients: oil, sand, silver and memories. When she demonstrates the machine to him, he learns about her hurtful past from the memories she tells.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953286", "title": "George Gordon, 5th Earl of Huntly", "text": "George Gordon, 5th Earl of Huntly\n\nGeorge Gordon, 5th Earl of Huntly (died 19 October 1576), was Lord Chancellor of Scotland and major conspirator of his time.\n\nSecond son of the 4th Earl, he was Sheriff of Inverness from 1556. As Captain of Badenoch, he was in charge of carrying letters sent from Edinburgh to Mary of Guise in Inverness from Dunkeld throughout the summer of 1556. Mary, Queen of Scots came north to reduce the power of the Gordons and take Inverness Castle in 1562. The Earl was captured at Corrichie with his other sons, John Gordon and Adam Gordon, and the Earl suddenly died. John, the eldest, was executed three days later. George (called Lord Gordon) was imprisoned at Kinneil House. He was attainted and sentenced to death for treason in 1563. He was then imprisoned at Dunbar castle until the marriage of Queen Mary to Darnley in 1565, when his lands and dignities were nominally restored.\n\nHe allied himself with James Hepburn, 4th Earl of Bothwell, who was married to his sister Jean, and joined Queen Mary at Dunbar after Rizzio's murder in 1566. He became Lord Chancellor of Scotland in 1567, and joined Bothwell in the plot to murder the Regent Moray at Jedburgh. He signed the bond at Craigmillar Castle for Darnley's murder, and accompanied Bothwell and Mary on the visit to Darnley before his murder.\n\nHis estates were fully restored after Bothwell's acquittal in 1567. Bothwell's divorce from his sister was facilitated by his influence over her, and he witnessed the marriage contract between Mary and Bothwell. He connived at the capture of the Queen, and accompanied her to Edinburgh, escaping to the north after her flight. He joined the partisans at Dumbarton Castle, and after a temporary agreement with Regent Moray he conspired for her deliverance from Loch Leven Castle in 1567. After the Queen's escape to England in 1568, he held all the north in alliance with Argyll, but received Mary's order to disperse.\n\nHuntly made an agreement with Regent Moray at St Andrews on 14 May 1569. Huntly was to make up his quarrel with the Earl of Morton, repress rebellion amongst his former allies, and surrender a royal cannon kept at Huntly Castle. In return, Regent Moray would give the Earl and his followers a remission for all their crimes against the King since 11 June 1567, and promised an Act of Parliament to forgive his role as 'pretended Lieutenant to the Queen's Grace' between August 1568 and March 1569.\n\nAfter this temporary submission, continuing the Marian civil war, he gained possession of Edinburgh Castle, held a parliament, and captured Regent Lennox at Stirling. His brother Adam Gordon of Auchindoun was his lieutenant in the north, and fought for Queen Mary in Aberdeenshire and the Mearns. Huntly also lent money to William Kirkcaldy of Grange who led the garrison at Edinburgh Castle. In return for his loans Kirkcaldy gave Huntly pieces of the jewelry of Mary Queen of Scots. One piece, a garnishing for the queen's hair set with rubies and diamonds was returned to Regent Morton by Huntly's servant Alexander Drummond of Midhope in August 1573.\n\nIn 1572 the Earl came to terms with the Regent Morton. He died at Strathbogie, four years later. An eyewitness description of his death, compiled by Richard Bannatyne describes how he suffered a stroke, or a collapse caused by food-poisoning, while playing football. After the Earl died a number of alleged supernatural events occurred beginning with the sudden collapse of one of the servants. Three companions also collapsed and when revived complained of feeling cold. After the Earl's body was embalmed and taken to the chapel, his brother sat in the hall and heard unexplained sounds from the earl's chamber.\n\nHe married Anne, daughter of James Hamilton, Duke of Châtellerault and had a daughter Jean, and his successor, George Gordon, 6th Earl of Huntly.\n"}
{"id": "1953289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953289", "title": "Gerry Wood", "text": "Gerry Wood\n\nGerard Vincent \"Gerry\" Wood (born 5 April 1950) is an Australian politician. A former mayor of the Northern Territory shire of Litchfield, he has been an independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly since 2001, representing the electorate of Nelson.\n\nWood worked in Daly River and Bathurst Island as a young man, working in a number of careers, including running a tourist operation and working as the town clerk of Nguiu. In 1984, he relocated to Howard Springs, between Darwin and Palmerston. While at Howard Springs, he worked as a vegetable and poultry farmer, and became involved with local government, subsequently spending five years as the President of the Litchfield Shire Council. It was in this position that he emerged as a key figure in the fight against the damming of the Elizabeth River, with which he has been credited as having saved. This gave him a significant profile in his area when he decided to contest the seat of Nelson at the 2001 election.\n\nNelson had a long history of independent candidates, as independent Noel Padgham-Purich had held the seat for most of its history, and Country Liberal Party sitting member Chris Lugg had only narrowly won the seat from new independent candidate Dave Tollner at the 1997 election. In the leadup to the election, Wood was tipped to have a strong chance of ousting Lugg, and subsequently won 42% of the vote, which was enough to elect him with the help of Labor Party preferences. In the immediate aftermath, there was a real possibility of a hung parliament, which would have likely left Wood with the balance of power in the Assembly. However, Labor managed to seize majority control with Mathew Bonson's narrow win in the electorate of Millner, which severely limited Wood's potential influence in the Assembly. Once the new Assembly began sitting, new ALP Chief Minister Clare Martin offered Wood the position of Deputy Speaker under fellow independent Loraine Braham, and Wood soon accepted.\n\nAs an MP, Wood has served on a number of committees, including public accounts, environment and sustainable development, substance abuse and estimates. While he has not maintained as high a profile as Braham, he received some attention from the national media in November 2004, when he discovered the theft of a 10-tonne steel railway bridge in his electorate after hearing a report from a constituent. The same month, in response to a severe shortage of fruit pickers in the Territory, Wood wandered around the Mindil Beach Markets, a popular tourist attraction, dressed as a mango tree. Not all of the publicity Wood has received has been for his political efforts; in 2004, Wood won the over-45s division of the Litchfield Gift foot race.\n\nWood faced his second electoral test at the 2005 election. He campaigned largely on maintaining an independent voice in the Assembly and on social issues such as the state of the Royal Darwin Hospital. Despite a controversial redistribution which moved the Robertson Barracks into his electorate, Wood held his seat with a swing in his favour, polling nearly double the vote of his nearest rival. Wood had hoped to retain the position of Deputy Speaker after the election, but was replaced with Labor backbencher Len Kiely. He has retained his seat in the 2008 election.\n\nGerry comes from a Horticultural background having studied Horticultural Science at Burnley (University of Melbourne) before coming to the Northern Territory in 1970.\n\nIn 2018, in the midst of a financial crisis in the Territory, Wood supported a call to discuss merging the Northern Territory with South Australia.\n\nGerry Wood an independent MP of Nelson, formally announced retirement in February 2019. He will not contest the 2020 Northern Territory general election.\n"}
{"id": "1953296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953296", "title": "Symonds Green", "text": "Symonds Green\n\nSymonds Green is a neighbourhood within the English new town of Stevenage in Hertfordshire. Although predominantly a residential area with a mixture of public-sector, charitable and private housing dating mostly from the 1970s, the open common land forming the actual Green is of historical significance to the area.\n\nSymonds Green was designated an English Conservation area in June 1977. A conservation area is defined by the Planning [Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas] Act 1990 s.69 as being an “area of special architectural or historic interest the character or appearance of which it is desirable to preserve or enhance”. Through the Conservation Area designation certain buildings in the locality that are of historical note (despite nearby encroachment from later 20th-century housing), are protected from inappropriate development or change, thereby conserving a small part of this old rural hamlet.\n\nThe Crooked Billet Public House was, evidenced by mapping of the day, on Symonds Green in the early 20th century. The original part of present building was built circa 1920 and was extended (as it appears today [2020]) around 1980. Census records evidence the existence of a 'Beer Shop' on Symonds Green in the Census returns of both 1841 & 1851. The establishment was run by Elizabeth Moules who was from Walkern, a hamlet 4¼ miles to the east of Symonds Green. The ponds adjacent to the Pub are principal features of the Conservation Area.\n\nOf the various properties near the Green, three are statutory Grade II Listed. Two such cottages are to be found at either end of the Green today [2020] and can also be seen on the 1883 Ordnance Survey Map. By the 18th century a farm had developed on the site. The farmhouse still stands and the related Grade II listed barn is believed to be the Conservation Area's oldest surviving building and is described within the English Heritage listings search thus:- 'The barn is a near-complete example of late C16 or early C17 timber-framing, displaying carpentry detailing characteristic of Hertfordshire practice, and retaining evidence of later extension and adaptation for animal husbandry'. The farm, of which the barn formed a part, is shown on a 1766 County map, and the Richardson map of Stevenage of 1834. It is also identified on the Ordnance Survey maps of both 1884 & 1889.\n\nIt can be seen from maps of the area that Symonds Green is one of several 'Greens' in and around the western boundary of Stevenage. Symonds Green Lane connected Symonds Green with Fishers Green to the north, thence by other bridleways to Todds Green and Titmore Green and, to the south, Norton Green and (now lost) Broomin Green. The Grade II listed farmhouse that served Broomin Green still stands and is to be found nestling within the 20th century development of Stevenage Town north east of the junction of the A1155 Fairlands Way and A1072 Gunnels Wood Road. To the west of Symonds Green is the A1(M) motorway. Adjacent to the northbound carriageway of the motorway at this point is the route of a north–south Roman road. Today, the southern boundary of Symonds Green, roughly where Broomin Green was, comprises light industrial and office estates. The 'Meadway' playing fields are also to the south of the Symonds Green Conservation Area but do not form part of it. They were once much larger, extending east of Symonds Green Lane, but they were built upon in the 1980s with the office facilities that are there today. Modern day Stevenage otherwise lies due east of Symonds Green, and extends for over two miles.\n\n'The Meadway' itself, from which a number of other local facilities take their name, was the principal eastbound road from Symonds Green to Old Stevenage and its route, if not name, dates from at least 1766. This road into town was intersected (at a point toward the eastern end of the present day Brick Kiln Road, Stevenage) following the construction in the mid-19th century of the Great Northern Railway, now part of the East Coast Main Line. The original route of The Meadway can still be followed on foot, from its origin at its junction with a track known as Kitching Lane just under the Motorway at the south-eastern corner of the Meadway playing fields, to where it emerges opposite the western end of Brick Kiln Road.\n\nOwing to the arrival of the railway, The Meadway was terminated by way of a footbridge across the railway line. On the other side of the line the foot-way became Trinity Road, which served Holy Trinity Church built 1861 and which currently remains an active part of the Stevenage Conservation Area. There is no trace remaining of the footbridge, which would have emerged opposite the present filling station on the corner of Woolners Way and Trinity Road. Intriguingly, there is still a direct link between Holy Trinity Church, on Stevenage High Street, and Symonds Green, as both Holy Trinity & Christ the King in Symonds Green are churches that are part of the Stevenage Deanery, in the Archdeaconry of Hertford and belong to the Diocese of St. Albans, Church of England.\n\nRunning roughly north–south across the common land on Symonds Green is 'Symonds Green Lane'. At the southern end of Symonds Green Lane, toward the Meadway playing fields, are a small number of 1930s houses originally built for the workers at Stevenage Nurseries, which existed nearby on the land now occupied by a 1970s housing estate, the service roadway of which provides the only vehicular access to the Conservation Area which is otherwise a Cul-de-sac. Symonds Green Lane narrows to a surfaced footpath at its boundary at both the south & north edges of the Conservation Area and in turn, links into the system of Stevenage cycle paths and other designated foot ways.\n\nUntil the late summer of 2014, at the southern end of the green, an information notice erected by the local authority provided a brief and interesting account of the history of the area. Stevenage Environmental Services erected a new interpretation board for Symonds Green Common in 2015. The original board read:-\n\n\"\"Symonds Green...covers an area of roughly five acres, although in the past it seems to have been larger than this. At the time of the Domesday Book it was part of the Manor of Woolenwick, and in the 13th century it was called Woolenwick Green. The tenants of the manor were allowed to graze their animals there. During the Middle Ages it became part of the Manor of Wymondlye and by the 15th century it was known as Hickman's Green after a local land owner. In 1581 a certain Edwarde Symonde bought land on the south side of the green and although the family moved away in 1610, the land has [probably] taken its name [then, 'Symes Green'] from him ever since. Of the houses by the green, one of the oldest is the 'Crooked Billet' public house which has been in existence for at least a century and a half. In the 1841 Census it is described as a 'Beer Shop'. At that time it was kept by Elizabeth Moules, whose family farmed much of the land in the area. Symonds Green was the birthplace of the notorious poachers, the Fox twins, who were born in 1857 in a thatched cottage behind the Crooked Billet. Albert Fox lodged in a house adjoining the pub towards the end of his life.\"\n\nIn addition to the Conservation area, Symonds Green has a neighbourhood shopping centre, a nursery, infant and primary schools, a community centre, Church, dentists, two public houses, a Health Centre and several children's playgrounds. Symonds Green covers much of the area of the ancient hamlet of Woolenwick, after which the local primary school is named. A number of the modern streets in the locality are named after popular British seaside holiday towns.\n"}
{"id": "1953299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953299", "title": "Pyrolytic carbon", "text": "Pyrolytic carbon\n\nPyrolytic carbon is a material similar to graphite, but with some covalent bonding between its graphene sheets as a result of imperfections in its production.\n\nPyrolytic carbon is man-made and is not thought to be found in nature. Generally it is produced by heating a hydrocarbon nearly to its decomposition temperature, and permitting the graphite to crystalize (pyrolysis). One method is to heat synthetic fibers in a vacuum. Another method is to place seeds on a plate in the very hot gas to collect the graphite coating. It is used in high temperature applications such as missile nose cones, rocket motors, heat shields, laboratory furnaces, in graphite-reinforced plastic, coating nuclear fuel particles, and in biomedical prostheses.\n\nPyrolytic carbon samples usually have a single cleavage plane, similar to mica, because the graphene sheets crystallize in a planar order, as opposed to graphite, which forms microscopic randomly oriented zones. Because of this, pyrolytic carbon exhibits several unusual anisotropic properties. It is more thermally conductive along the cleavage plane than graphite, making it one of the best planar thermal conductors available.\n\nPyrolitic graphite forms mosaic crystals with controlled mosaicities up to a few degrees.\n\nIt is also more diamagnetic (χ = −4×10) against the cleavage plane, exhibiting the greatest diamagnetism (by weight) of any room-temperature diamagnet. In comparison, pyrolitic graphite has a relative permeability of 0.9996, whereas bismuth has a relative permeability of 0.9998 (table).\n\nFew materials can be made to magnetically levitate stably above the magnetic field from a permanent magnet. Although magnetic repulsion is obviously and easily achieved between any two magnets, the shape of the field causes the upper magnet to push off sideways, rather than remaining supported, rendering stable levitation impossible for magnetic objects (see Earnshaw's theorem). Strongly diamagnetic materials, however, can levitate above powerful magnets.\n\nWith the easy availability of rare-earth permanent magnets in recent years, the strong diamagnetism of pyrolytic carbon makes it a convenient demonstration material for this effect.\n\nIn 2012, a research group in Japan demonstrated that pyrolytic carbon can respond to laser light or sufficiently powerful natural sunlight by spinning or moving in the direction of the field gradient. The carbon's magnetic susceptibility weakens upon sufficient illumination, leading to an unbalanced magnetization of the material and movement when using a specific geometry.\n\n\nBecause blood clots do not easily form on it, it is often advisable to line a blood-contacting prosthesis with this material in order to reduce the risk of thrombosis. For example, it finds use in artificial hearts and artificial heart valves. Blood vessel stents, by contrast, are often lined with a polymer that has heparin as a pendant group, relying on drug action to prevent clotting. This is at least partly because of pyrolytic carbon's brittleness and the large amount of permanent deformation, which a stent undergoes during expansion.\n\nPyrolytic carbon is also in medical use to coat anatomically correct orthopaedic implants, a.k.a. replacement joints. In this application it is currently marketed under the name \"PyroCarbon\". These implants have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use in the hand for metacarpophalangeal (knuckle) replacements. They are produced by two companies: Tornier (BioProfile) and Ascension Orthopedics. (On September 23, 2011, Integra LifeSciences acquired Ascension Orthopedics.) The FDA has also approved PyroCarbon interphalangeal joint replacements under the Humanitarian Device Exemption.\n"}
{"id": "1953316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953316", "title": "Gopalganj", "text": "Gopalganj\n\nGopalganj may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953328", "title": "Supreme Order of the Most Holy Annunciation", "text": "Supreme Order of the Most Holy Annunciation\n\nThe Supreme Order of the Most Holy Annunciation (Italian: \"Ordine Supremo della Santissima Annunziata\") is a Roman Catholic order of knighthood, originating in Savoy. It eventually was the pinnacle of the honours system in the Kingdom of Italy, which ceased to be a national order when the kingdom became a republic in 1946. Today, the order continues as a dynastic order under the jurisdiction of the Head of the House of Savoy, Vittorio Emanuele, Prince of Naples, who is the order's hereditary Sovereign and Grand Master.\n\nThe origins of the Supreme Order of the Most Holy Annunciation begins in 1362, when Amadeus VI, Count of Savoy (1343-1383) instituted the order's earliest designation, under the title of Order of the Collar. Even at this time, the order was dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary, who is celebrated as \"Our Lady of the Annunciation.\" Thus, the order is a dynastic religious (or Catholic) order of chivalry.\nUnder its first formulation, the order had fifteen knights. The number was symbolic of the number of daily masses celebrated with the order. In 1409, Amadeus VIII, Duke of Savoy, gave the order its first known statutes, and in 1434, he extended the order to five more knights.\n\nAmadeus VIII's statutes were subsequently amended and reformed by Charles III, Duke of Savoy in 1518, by Emanuele Filiberto, Duke of Savoy in 1570, and thereafter by succeeding Sovereigns. The most recent took place on 11 June 1985 by HRH Victor Emmanuel, Prince of Naples and hereditary Grand Master of the order. It was in 1518, that many of the present designations were instituted. Most importantly, the order's name was changed to its current name, The Most Holy Order of the Annunciation. The badge of the order was also changed, with the representation of the Blessed Virgin Mary being added.\n\nThe order, throughout its early history and following the reforms of Charles III, was awarded for supreme recognition of distinguished services. The order constituted a kind of religious and military fraternity between the Sovereign Head of the Order and his companions; it was reserved exclusively to distinguished men-at-arms who, apart from exemplary service, had to be of illustrious birth, particularly of catholic and noble birth.\n\nEventually, it was deemed appropriate to recognize also those who had rendered distinguished service to the Kingdom of Italy (and now the House of Savoy) in the exercise of high civil offices, not requiring, when a such achievements could be demonstrated, nobility of birth as well.\n\nToday, the order holds the following other regulations:\n\nIn 1925, a law was passed on the day before Christmas which made the Head of Government (who at the time was Benito Mussolini) the Secretary of the Order, and stipulated that he would preside over the Knights of the Order at public functions and ceremonies.\n\nThe order has only one class, i.e. \"Knight\". The full Italian title is \"Cavaliere dell'Ordine Supremo della Santissima Annunziata\".\n\nAlthough the order has only one class, it has two sets of insignia, the \"Piccola Collana\" and the \"Grande Collana\". The two hold similar designs, though the \"Grande Collana\" has some different features than the \"Piccola Collana\" and is worn only on the most special of occasions.\n\nThe primary and oldest insignia of the order is its collar. It consists of a solid gold medallion of the collar, which portrays the Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary by the Archangel Gabriel. The medallion is surrounded by three intertwined Savoyan knots, decorated with small crosses fleury, and in the upper center, between two of the Savoyan knots, a cluster of rays with a dove, representing the Holy Spirit, is depicted also in gold.\n\nThe badge is suspended from a gold chain made up of fifteen ornate gold sections, each of which is linked by Savoyan knot. Each has the letters F.E.R.T. interwoven. The meaning of these letters have been of some controversy, to which a number of interpretations have been offered. The first states that the letters stand for \"Fortitudo Eius Rhodum Tulit\" (meaning \"By his bravery he conquered Rhodes\"), referring to the victory at Rhodes by Count Amadeus V in 1310.\n\nSome have also suggested that the letters are actually the third person singular of the present indicative tense of the Latin verb \"ferre\", which would indicate that the order is supported by the bond of faith sworn to the Virgin Mary. It has been noted that the letters FERT are already found on the tombs of members of the House of Savoy long before 1310 and suggested that they represent a local medieval variant of the Latin third person singular past tense meaning \"he bore\" (i.e., \"Christ bore our sins/sufferings\"). The letters may also stand for \"Foedere et Religione Tenemur\" (meaning \"We are held by Pact and Religion\"), a motto associated with Victor Amadeus I (1718-1730). It may also stand for \"Fortitudo Eius Republicam Tenet\" (meaning \"His strength defends the State\").\n\nThe star of the order, which was first used in 1680 by specifications of the Royal Lady Maria Giovana Battista, Duchess Regent of Savoy, is of gold and also has a representation of the Annunciation in a medallion in the center which is set within a gold cross of four pommels. This is surrounded by a cluster of gold rays. Between the arms of the cross of four pommels are the letters F.E.R.T.\n\nThe \"Grande Collana\" differs from the \"Piccola Collana\" in that the collar consists of fourteen ornate sections, each of which is made up of the letters F.E.R.T. in gold, intertwined with a white and red enameled Savoyan knot. The sections are interlinked with fourteen roses, alternately enameled red and white. The roses represent the mysteries in the life of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The knots surrounding the medallion of the collar is enameled white, red, and blue.\n\nThe insignia of the order has the following regulations:\n\nOn the day of the initiation of a new knight into the Order the small collar was worn by the initiate before the accolade by Grand Master, while after the accolade the Grand Master would place the large collar over the shoulders of the new knight.\n\nWhen the order is not worn, Knights may wear a gold miniature of the badge (medallion of the collar) of the order suspended from a red ribbon. They may also wear either a ribbon-bar (upon a uniform) or a rosette (upon a suit), both of which are red and have a miniature cross of four pommels engraved with the Annunciation.\n\nThe \"Grand Magisterium\" is the governing body of the dynastic orders of the Royal House of Savoy. It consists of the Sovereign and Grand Master of the Order, the Grand Chancellor of the Order, the Council of the Order, Members, and the Giunta of the Order. The following are some of those that make up the \"Grand Magisterium\" of the order.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953329", "title": "Royal Trinity Hospice", "text": "Royal Trinity Hospice\n\nRoyal Trinity Hospice is the oldest hospice in the United Kingdom, founded in 1891 by a member of the Hoare banking family. It is located in Clapham Common, London, England, and provides specialist palliative care. In 2019 Royal Trinity Hospice was rated \"Outstanding\" by the Care Quality Commission, the highest rating that can be awarded. The hospice provides free palliative and end of life care for patients in a state-of-the-art inpatient unit at their Clapham Common headquarters and in the community, wherever patients may be living. In 2018 Trinity cared for 2,500 patients and in addition provided pre- and post-bereavement support for over 900 carers.\n\nRoyal Trinity Hospice provides its specialist services free of charge for those who need them across its community of over 750,000 people from central and south-west London (its catchment includes all of the London borough of Wandsworth and parts of the London boroughs of Kensington and Chelsea, Hammersmith and Fulham, Richmond upon Thames, Merton, Westminster and Lambeth. Trinity's current CEO is Dallas Pounds. \n\nWilliam Hoare created the hospice in 1891 when he appealed for funds in \"The Times\" newspaper on Christmas Day to provide a home \"for the man who is neither curable nor incurable, but simply dying\". He gave £1,000 of the £2,000 needed to set up the Hostel of God, as Trinity was originally called. The remainder was raised by public subscription.\n\nBy 1894 Trinity had ten beds. Patients were cared for by the Order of St James's Servants of the Poor, a teaching order of nuns. In 1896 the Society of Saint Margaret of East Grinstead, a nursing order, took over. In 1899 the hospice moved from The Chase to Clapham Common Northside. By 1933 Trinity had 55 spaces in the Hospice and was constantly caring for those in need. The much needed service continued to grow with the opening of the 25-bed St Michael’s ward in 1953, bringing the bed total to 75.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, significant changes were made in the philosophy of running hospices, and more focus was put on symptom relief and enhancing a patient's quality of life to the end. Trinity Hospice still follows this policy today, putting the patient's quality of life first.\n\nIn 1977 the running of Trinity Hospice was transferred from the hands of the nuns to Trinity's Council, which had been in place since the early 1900s. The hospice became a secular independent home.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1985, the first refurbishment programme took place, which included a renovation of its magnificent gardens. During this period only 18 beds were occupied. This was not only due to the work going on but also a consequence of the increasing popularity of end of life care in the home. Thirty beds were available on completion of the work.\n\nIn 1980, Trinity's first full-time medical director was appointment and its home-care team was established, offering their services to people suffering from terminal illnesses in their own homes. 1980 was also the year that Trinity took its current name and officially stopped being the Hostel of God. During the 1980s Trinity expanded its services in education and in 1987 opened a day centre to outpatients.\n\nTrinity celebrated its centenary in 1991 with a service in Westminster Abbey. In the 1990s, treatment was broadened to include any patient with a life-threatening illness. This continues today, as does a greater emphasis on the needs of carers.\n\nIn 2009 an entirely new and purpose-built 28 bed inpatient centre was added, designed around the needs of the patients by TP Bennett. The building greatly improved the services provided at Trinity, offering patients private, en suites, family-friendly areas, counselling and bereavement rooms, new medical facilities and balconies overlooking peaceful gardens. The inpatient centre won the Civic Trust Award 2019 and a Building Better Healthcare Award for Best End of Life Care Design in 2009.\n\nTrinity has an estate of 32 shops across central and south west London selling new and pre-used goods, that help generate over £5.6 million towards free palliative and end of life care every year. Trinity's shops have been recognised by \"Vogue\" as among the best vintage shops in London and the best charity shops in London by \"Time Out.\"\n\nIn 2018, Royal Trinity Hospice shops collaborated with food writer Jasmine Hemsley on a collection of pre-used goods as part of the Love Not Landfill campaign, funded by the London Waste and Recycling board. In 2019 Trinity partnered with social media influencer Oenone for the same campaign.\n\nAmong those who have stayed at the hospice are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953334", "title": "Rustication (architecture)", "text": "Rustication (architecture)\n\nRustication is a range of masonry techniques used in classical architecture giving visible surfaces a finish texture that contrasts in with smooth, squared-block masonry called ashlar. The visible face of each individual block is cut back around the edges to make its size and placing very clear. In addition the central part of the face of each block may be given a deliberately rough or patterned surface.\n\nRusticated masonry is usually \"dressed\", or squared off neatly, on all sides of the stones except the face that will be visible when the stone is put in place. This is given wide joints that emphasize the edges of each block, by angling the edges (\"channel-jointed\"), or dropping them back a little. The main part of the exposed face may be worked flat and smooth or left with, or worked, to give a more or less rough or patterned surface. Rustication is often used to give visual weight to the ground floor in contrast to smooth ashlar above. Though intended to convey a \"rustic\" simplicity, the finish is highly artificial, and the faces of the stones often carefully worked to achieve an appearance of a coarse finish.\n\nRustication was used in ancient times, but became especially popular in the revived classical styles of Italian Renaissance architecture and that of subsequent periods, above all in the lower floors of secular buildings. It remains in use in some modern architecture.\n\nSimilar finishes are very common in medieval architecture, especially in castles, walls and similar buildings, but here it merely arises from an unwillingness to spend the extra money required for ashlar masonry in a particular building, and lacks the deliberate emphasis on the joints between blocks. Though it often achieves a decorative effect, this is something of a by-product, and the exploitation for architectural effect within a single building of contrasts between rusticated and ashlar surfaces is rarely seen. In some buildings, such as the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence (begun 1298) something other than cost-saving is at play, and this may be the association of the technique with the display of power and strength, from its use in military architecture. Rough finishes on stone are also very common in architecture outside the European tradition, but these too would generally not be called rustication. For example, the bases of Japanese castles and other fortifications usually use rough stone, often very attractively.\n\nAlthough rustication is known from a few buildings of Greek and Roman antiquity, for example Rome's Porta Maggiore, the method first became popular during the Renaissance, when the stone work of lower floors and sometimes entire facades of buildings were finished in this manner. It was generally used for secular buildings, and has always remained uncommon in churches, perhaps through a lingering association with the architecture of military power; there are exceptions, such as St Giles in the Fields, London (1730–34).\n\nProbably the earliest and most influential example is the Palazzo Medici Riccardi in Florence, built between 1444 and 1484, with two contrasting rusticated finishes. The ground floor has an irregular and genuinely rugged appearance, with a variation in the degree to which parts of the faces of blocks project from the wall that is rarely equalled later. Above, the rustication is merely to emphasize the individual blocks, and the faces are all smooth and even. Also in Florence, Palazzo Strozzi, begun 1489, with large oblong rounded cushions, and the front of the Palazzo Pitti, begun 1458, rusticated their whole facades in the same style. These facades only used the classical orders in mullions and aedicules, with arched forms in rustication the main relief from the massive flat walls. The Palazzo Rucellai, probably of the 1460s, begins to classicize such facades, using smooth-faced rustication throughout, except for the pilasters at each level.\n\nIn Rome, Donato Bramante's Palazzo Caprini (\"House of Raphael\", by 1510, now destroyed) provided a standard model for the integration of rustication with the orders. Here the obvious strength of a blind arched arcade with emphatic voussoirs on the rusticated ground storey (in fact using stucco) gave reassuring support to the upper storey's paired Doric columns standing on rusticated piers, set against a smooth wall. The first major Renaissance building in Spain, the Palace of Charles V in Granada (1527), had a deeply rusticated ground floor facade with regular rounded cushions.\n\nThe technique was enthusiastically taken up by the next generation of Mannerist architects, with Giulio Romano in the lead. Most early examples of this \"rustic\" style are therefore built for sophisticated patrons in the leading centres of taste. Giulio's Palazzo Maccarani Stati in Rome and Palazzo Te in Mantua expand the voussoirs still further, and the courtyard in Mantua plays games with the technique, with some blocks ashlar, other projecting further than the rest, and larger blocks placed higher than smaller ones. The Mannerist architectural writer Sebastiano Serlio and others of his generation enjoyed the play between rusticated and finished architectural elements. In the woodcut of a doorway from Serlio's 1537 treatise, the banded rustication of the wall is carried right across the attached column and the moldings of the doorway surround, binding together all the elements. \nThe Italians brought in to expand the Palace of Fontainebleau introduced the technique to France. Its spread to Germany and England took longer, but by about the end of the 16th century it had reached all parts of Europe. In his Banqueting House in London (1619), Inigo Jones gave a lightly rusticated surface texture to emphasize the blocks on both storeys, and to unify them behind his orders of pilasters and columns. \nDuring the 18th century, following the Palladian revival, rustication was widely used on the ground floors of large buildings, as its contrived appearance of simplicity and solidity contrasted well to the carved ornamental stonework and columns of the floors above: \"Rustication became almost obligatory in all 18th- and 19th-century public buildings in Europe and the USA\". A ground floor with rustication, especially in an English mansion such as Kedleston Hall, is sometimes referred to as the \"rustic floor\", in order to distinguish it from the piano nobile above. As well as uses emphasizing the horizontal, rustication is often used in relatively narrow vertical bands, on the quoins at corners or elsewhere. Rustication may also be confined to the surrounds of arches, doors or windows, especially at the top. In these and other situations where rustication stops horizontally, the edge is usually made up of vertically alternating long and short blocks. Rustication therefore often reverses the patterns of medieval and later vernacular architecture, where roughly dressed wall surfaces often contrast with ashlar quoins and frames to openings.\nArchitectural books by authors such as James Gibbs and William Chambers set out detailed recommendations for the proportions of the blocks in relation to columns in the same facade, and the proportion of the block that a widened joint should occupy, though their prescriptions differ, and were not always followed by architects.\n\nTypically, rustication after 1700 is highly regular, with the front faces of blocks flat even when worked in patterns, as opposed to the real unevenness often seen in the 16th-century examples. Often the Palazzo Medici Riccardi model is followed; the ground floor has heavy rustication with textured faces, while above there is smooth-faced \"V\" rustication. Though such horizontal zones of rustication are the most common, vertical zones can often be used as highlights, as in the illustration from Catania above, or the Cour Napoleon in the Louvre Palace. The Baroque garden front of the Palazzo Pitti achieves a striking effect, not often copied, by using extensive \"blocking\", both rounded and rectangular, on the shafts of its columns and pilasters.\n\nCanton Viaduct, a blind arcade cavity wall railroad viaduct built in 1834–35 in Canton, Massachusetts is an example of modest effects of rustication in industrial architecture; the effect is pleasing, and the cost was probably reduced. Massive effects of contrasting rustications typify the \"Richardsonian Romanesque\" style exemplified in the 1870s and 80s by the American architect H. H. Richardson. The technique is still sometimes used in architecture of a broadly Modernist character, especially in city centre streets where it helps modern buildings blend with older ones with rustication.\n\nAlthough essentially a technique for stone masonry, rustication can be imitated in brick and stucco, which began as early as Bramante's Palazzo Caprini and was common in smaller houses in Georgian architecture, and also in wood (see below), which is mainly found in British America.\n\nThe most common variation of rustication is the smooth-faced, where the external face of the block is smooth, as in ashlar, and differs from that only by the cutting in at the joints; this became increasingly popular, and is now the most commonly seen type. If deeply cut-back edges are worked only to the horizontal joints, with the appearance of the vertical joints being minimised, the resulting effect is known as banded rustication, mostly seen on the lowest levels of very large buildings like the Palace of Versailles or the main Foreign Office building in London. As at Versailles, the bands may be \"elbowed\", dipping diagonally around arches to join up with and emphasize the voussoirs. Banded rustication is mostly seen with smooth-faced stones, and has remained popular in Stripped Classicism and other contemporary versions of classical styles. In this style, the bands are sometimes several feet apart, making it apparent that stone facings are being used.\n\nWhen the stone is left with a rough external surface, rough shapes may be drilled or chiselled in the somewhat smoothed face in a technique called \"vermiculation\" (vermiculate rustication or vermicular rustication), so called from the Latin \"vermiculus\" meaning \"little worm\", because the shapes resemble worms, worm-casts or worm tracks in mud or wet sand. Carved vermiculation requires a good deal of careful mason's work, and is mostly used over limited areas to highlight them. Disparities between individual blocks are often seen, presumably as different carvers interpreted their patterns slightly differently, or had different levels of skill. The small Turner Mausoleum at Kirkleatham by James Gibbs (1740) has an unusually large area vermiculated, over half of the main level. When the shapes join up to form a network, the style is called \"reticulated\".\n\nOften, especially from the Baroque onwards, the roughly flattened central areas of stones are indented in regular, but not too regular, patterns called \"pecked\" or \"picked-work\", and various other ways of patterning them may be found. In garden architecture, where water was to flow over or near the surface, a vertically oriented pattern evoking hanging pond-weed or algae, or icicles (\"frost-work\") is sometimes used. Also associated with gardens is \"cyclopian\" rustication, where the blocks are very large and irregular, as though placed by giants, and \"rock-work\", where surfaces are built up of rough rocks not placed in regular courses at all. This last goes beyond rustication, and is found in fountains and follies, and later rockeries for planting.\n\nIn prismatic rustication the blocks are dressed at an angle near each edge, giving a prism-like shape. Where the faces rise to a single point, this is often known by terms using \"diamond\", and is covered below. They may also, usually in blocks that are oblong rather than square, rise to a ridge in the centre. Both types are illustrated, with several others, by Serlio.\n\nVarious types of other patterns in masonry surfaces are sometimes called rustication. These include \"diamond point\" or \"diamond rustication\" where the face of each stone is a low pyramid facing out. This covered the whole facade of the Palazzo dei Diamanti in Ferrara, completed in 1503, and most of that of the Palace of Facets in the Moscow Kremlin, designed by Italians and completed in 1492, with rectangular \"diamonds\". These \"diamond palaces\" influenced other whole walls of diamonds at Casa dos Bicos in Portugal (after 1523, alternate stones only), and Crichton Castle in Scotland (c. 1585; all stones, with flat edges between pyramids).\n\nThe round towers at the Castello Sforzesco in Milan almost use diamonds, but their points are smoothed over. The illustration at right, from Catania in Sicily, alternates rows of three square \"diamond\" blocks with two oblong blocks, where the faces rise to a ridge rather than a point, showing both the main forms of \"prismatic rustication\".\n\nThe sharply pointed styles have really nothing to do with classical rustication, and are instead a development of styles of raised decoration of masonry that were popular in late Gothic architecture, especially the Iberian Manueline (or Portuguese late Gothic) and its equivalent in Spain, known as Isabelline Gothic. When not figurative these are known as bossage. These are probably a development of Mudéjar styles of patterning walls. In the spectacular late 15th-century gateway to the Palacio de Jabalquinto in Baeza, Andalucia, small widely spaced pyramids cover one of the many zones with fancy carved elements, projecting from a wall otherwise in ashlar.\n\nLater, in Baroque architecture, relatively small areas of diamond rustication were reintegrated into architecture in the classical tradition, and were popular as highlights, especially in Sicily and southern Italy and Eastern and Central Europe. The large Černín Palace in Prague (1660s) repeats the Kremlin formula of a broad zone of diamonds across the middle height of the facade, though like the towers in Milan these do not come to a point.\n\nThe appearance of rustication, creating a rough, unfinished stone-like surface, can be worked on a wooden exterior. This process became popular in 18th century New England to translate the features of Palladian architecture to the house-carpenter's idiom: in Virginia Monticello and Mount Vernon both made use of this technique. Mount Vernon in particular makes extensive use of feigned rustication and sanded paint and the original finished surfaces of several original planks still survive.\n\nRustication of a wooden exterior consists of three basic steps. First, the wood is cut, sanded and prepared with beveled grooves that make each plank appear as if it were a series of stone blocks. Second, the wood is painted with a thick coat of paint. Third, while the paint is still wet, sand is thrown or air blasted onto the planks until no more sand will stick. After the paint dries the plank is ready for use.\n\nIn Central Europe, especially the Czech Republic, feigned rustication in sgraffito (decoration by scraping away one colour of coating on an exterior to show another beneath) is a feature from the Late Renaissance onwards, continuing into the 20th century. Often \"prismatic\" or \"diamond\" rustication is imitated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953336", "title": "Tafunsak", "text": "Tafunsak\n\nTafunsak (formerly transliterated as Tahfuhnsahk) is the largest settlement on the island of Kosrae in the Federated States of Micronesia. Its population was 2,457 at the 2000 census. This includes Walung, which had been incorporated into the municipality of Tafunsak since the 1980s. The area of the municipality is 42.8 km², making it the largest municipality by area. This includes the 19.5 km² of former Walung municipality.\n\nThe word \"Tafunsak\" means \"half forest and half beach,\" the former referring to the island's tropical jungles.\n\nTafunsak is the closest village by road to Kosrae Airport.\n\nKosrae State Department of Education operates Tafunsak Elementary School and Walung Elementary School. High school students attend Kosrae High School in Tofol, Lelu municipality.\n"}
{"id": "1953342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953342", "title": "Michail Goleminov", "text": "Michail Goleminov\n\nMichail Goleminov () (born 1956) is a Bulgarian pianist, conductor and composer.\n\nMichail Goleminov is the son of composer Marin Goleminov. He studied composition with Dimitar Tapkoff and Konstantin Iliev and conducting with Konstantin Iliev at the State Music Conservatory in Sofia, then in 1985 continued his musical education in Austria and Holland with Roman Haubenstock-Ramati, Ton de Leeuw, Alexander Baltin (composition), Karl Österreicher (conducting), and Harald Ossberger (piano). He also studied electroacoustic music with Dieter Kaufmann at Institute for Electroacoustic Music in Vienna.\n\nBetween 1992 and 1998 he collaborated in a series of theatrical productions in Austria and took part in projects involving contemporary arts, mixed media, and intuitive and computer music.\n\nA participant in various concerts in as pianist, composer, and conductor, he is the recipient of such international composition prizes as the Hambacher Preis, Sommerliche Musiktage Hitzacker, Carl Maria von Weber.\n\nHis works span a wide spectrum of styles and genres, from chamber and orchestral pieces to computer music, video-compositions and music graphs, and have been commissioned by the Vienna Konzerthaus, Quebec New Music Society (Montreal), the MELO-x Saxophone Quartet, and other leading organizations and ensembles.\n\nMichael now works as a freelance musician based in Sofia, and he is the co-founder of Orange Factory psychoacoustic arts (http://orangefactory.net), an experimental center for musical creation, performance, publication, and education.\n\n\nhttp://orangefactory.net/mg\n\n"}
{"id": "1953343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953343", "title": "Eugeniusz Lokajski", "text": "Eugeniusz Lokajski\n\nEugeniusz Zenon Lokajski (14 December 1908 - 25 September 1944) was a Polish athlete, gymnast and photographer. He is notable as the Champion of Poland in javelin throw and the creator of more than 1000 photos documenting the Warsaw Uprising.\n\nEugeniusz Lokajski was born in 1908 in Warsaw. In 1924 he joined the Warszawianka sports club, where he started training in a variety of disciplines, including swimming, running and football. Initially he wanted to join the javelin section, but was refused by the coach. In 1928 he passed his baccalaureate exams at the Mikołaj Rej lyceum and served the obligatory service in the Polish Army. After graduating from the reserve NCO school in Zambrów, Lokajski joined the Central Sport Education Centre in Bielany, Warsaw.\n\nIn 1932 he returned to KS Warszawianka and became one of the most notable athletes of that club. Successful in hurdling, long jump, high jump and decathlon, he was finally admitted to the javelin section. In 1934 he became Champion of Poland in javelin throw and in gymnastics, which he achieved also the following year. His 1936 javelin record (73.27 metres, established during a duel with Walter Turczyk of Poznań) was not beaten until 17 years later, long after his death. \n\nAt the time, it was the third best record in the world. In 1935 he was a member of the Polish team to the World Student Games in Budapest and won the silver medal for javelin throw. He took part in the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin. However, during training he suffered an injury of the scapula muscle, which made his results much worse. His result (66,36 m) gave him seventh place. After the Olympics it turned out that the injury was a serious one and it ended his sports career. \n\nIn 1937 he briefly appeared in the Polish national team and was appointed to the Polish team for the 1940 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, but then he finally withdrew from sports life and had to spend several months in various hospitals. Also, an ear disease resulted in a series of surgical operations, one of them resulting in skull trepanation.\n\nConscripted into the Polish Army for the Polish Defensive War of 1939, Lokajski served as a platoon commander in the Polish 35th Infantry Regiment. After the Battle of Brześć he was taken prisoner of war by the Soviets, but managed to escape to Warsaw, which most probably saved him from the fate of other Polish officers, murdered by the Soviets in the Katyn Massacre. In Warsaw he reunited with his family and opened a photographic shop. At the same time he served as a teacher in one of the underground universities operating secretly in Warsaw. After his brother, Józef Lokajski, was killed by the Germans, Eugeniusz took over his duties in the Armia Krajowa unit, where he started serving as the person responsible for arms and munitions transport. There he served with distinction as lieutenant \"Brok\" (his nom de guerre).\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, both Lokajski and his sister joined the \"Koszta\" company, the staff defense unit defending the commanders of the Śródmieście area. The commander of his unit, Stefan Mich \"Kmita\" knew Lokajski from before the war and decided to use his photographical talents and provided him with a camera, with which Eugeniusz Lokajski started to document the fate of the Warsaw Uprising. Throughout the 63 days of the Uprising, Lokajski made more than a thousand of pictures, each of priceless value for historians. After 30 August, when the Polish forces were short of professional officers, Lokajski was attached to the 2nd platoon of the \"Koszta\" company as its commanding officer. Among the most notable skirmishes his unit took part in was the ill-fated attempt to join the forces fighting in the Warsaw's Old Town with those fighting in the city centre. His unit was the only one to successfully reach the specified area of operations, but it was withdrawn due to failure of other units to achieve their goals.\n\nAfter the action, Lokajski's unit was withdrawn to the rear and became the tactical reserve of the HQ, used for filling the gaps in Polish lines. Among the most serious fights he took part in was the struggle for the barricades on Chmielna street, as well as for the Main Post Office, in which he managed to retake the lost building and capture 18 German prisoners of war. Although his unit was decimated and cut out in the ruins without supplies, food and ammunition, Lokajski held out with his men until a relief force arrived - 48 hours later. By the end of the Uprising, on 25 September 1944, Lokajski was attached to the Headquarters of the Armia Krajowa as a photographer. His main task was to prepare photos of important AK soldiers for fake German documents, which would allow them to evade captivity and continue the struggle. Lacking materials, Lokajski went to a photographic shop at Marszałkowska street 129. Caught in an artillery barrage, he was killed in the ruins of the house. It was not until May 1945 that his body was exhumed from the rubble and buried in the Powązki Cemetery, among other Polish sportsmen killed in World War II. After the war a collection of photos documenting the Uprising was found in Warsaw, well hidden in one of the ruined houses.\n\nHis collection of 840 photographs documenting the Uprising, along with some taken by him before the War, was published on 4 February 2008 in a 500-page album through the joint effort of his sister Zofia Domańska and the Warsaw Uprising Museum.\n\nThere is a street named after him in Warsaw's borough of Ursynow.\n\nSome of the images of the Lokajski's archive:\n\n"}
{"id": "1953345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953345", "title": "Scottish Arts Council", "text": "Scottish Arts Council\n\nThe Scottish Arts Council (, ) was a Scottish public body responsible for the funding, development and promotion of the arts in Scotland. The Council primarily distributed funding from the Scottish Government as well as National Lottery funds received via the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nThe Scottish Arts Council was formed in 1994 following a restructuring of the Arts Council of Great Britain, but had existed as an autonomous body since a royal charter of 1967. In 2010 it merged with Scottish Screen to form Creative Scotland.\n\nThe Council funded all the major areas of the arts, seeking to maintain balance between the many diverse communities of Scotland. In addition, it funded cultural groups and events affiliated with immigrant communities and minorities in Scotland. It sponsored two book awards:\n\n\nThe Council was pivotal in forming policy for the nation in regard to Arts, Culture and Education after devolution, resulting in the seminal publication Arts Education: A Lifelong Learning Strategy. Published in 2004, this document articulated a national strategy to be put in place 2004-2009. It was crafted through \"a year of rigorous discussion, thinking, drafting and re-drafting, and has been much informed by consultation with the wider world of education and the arts.\" \n\nIn January 2006, it was announced that the Scottish Government would assume direct responsibility for the main national arts companies (Scottish Opera, Scottish Ballet, Royal Scottish National Orchestra, Scottish Chamber Orchestra) and that the Arts Council was to be replaced by a new body. This change was made in response to the report issued by the Cultural Commission chaired by James Boyle. The Scottish Arts Council was replaced by Creative Scotland on 1 July 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953356", "title": "Charles Erskine, Lord Tinwald", "text": "Charles Erskine, Lord Tinwald\n\nCharles Erskine also spelled Areskine (1680 – 5 April 1763), of Tinwald and Barjarg, Dumfries, and Alva, Clackmannan was Lord Advocate, a Scottish judge, and a politician who sat in the House of Commons from 1722 to 1742.\n\nErskine was the third son of Sir Charles Erskine, 1st Baronet, of Alva, Clackmannanshire and his wife Christian Dundas, daughter of Sir James Dundas, Lord Arniston. He was educated at Edinburgh in 1693. At the age of 20 he was a candidate for the office of one of the four Regents of the University of Edinburgh, and after an examination with several competitors obtained that appointment on 26 November 1700 until 17 October 1707. On 7 November he was appointed the first Professor of Public Law in the University in 1707, despite the protests of the council. He was at Utrecht in about 1710 and became a member of the Faculty of Advocates on 14 July 1711.\nErskine was elected Member of Parliament for Dumfriesshire in 1722, 1727 and 1734, for the Dumfries Burghs in 1734, for the Tain Burghs in 1741. He was Solicitor General for Scotland from 2 June 1725, Lord Advocate from 20 January 1737 to 1742. He was raised as a Lord of Justiciary, and also to the bench on 23 November 1744 as Lord Tinwald. He was also Lord Justice Clerk from 15 June 1748 until his death.\n\nHe married Grizel Grierson, daughter of John Grierson of Barjarg on 21 December 1712. Through whom he inherited Barjarg Tower.\n\nErskine married as his second wife Elizabeth Maxwell, widow of Dr. William Maxwell of Preston, Lancashire, and daughter of William Harestanes of Craigs, Kirkcudbright on 26 August 1753. He died at Edinburgh on 5 April 1763 leaving two sons by his first wife:\nErskine's brother Sir John Erskine was also an MP.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953363", "title": "Four Yorkshiremen sketch", "text": "Four Yorkshiremen sketch\n\nThe \"Four Yorkshiremen\" sketch is a comedy sketch that parodies nostalgic conversations about humble beginnings or difficult childhoods. It features four men from Yorkshire who reminisce about their upbringing. As the conversation progresses they try to outdo one another, and their accounts of deprived childhoods become increasingly absurd.\n\nThe sketch was written by Tim Brooke-Taylor, John Cleese, Graham Chapman and Marty Feldman and originally performed on their TV series \"At Last the 1948 Show\" in 1967. It later became associated with the comedy group Monty Python (which included Cleese and Chapman), who performed it in their live shows, including \"Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl\".\n\nIt may be observed that the tone of the sketch reflects the conversation between Mr Bounderby and Mrs Gradgrind on the occasion of his birthday, as recounted in Chapter 4 of the novel Hard Times by Charles Dickens.\n\nThe sketch was written and performed for the 1967 British television comedy series \"At Last the 1948 Show\" by the show's four writer-performers: Brooke-Taylor, Cleese, Chapman, and Feldman. Barry Cryer is the wine waiter in the original performance and may have contributed to the writing. The original performance of the sketch by the four creators is one of the surviving sketches from the programme and can be seen on the \"At Last the 1948 Show\" DVD as the closing sketch of series 2, episode 6. Its surviving camera script names the characters as Obadiah, Ezekiel, Josiah, and Hezekiah; but only the names Obadiah and Josiah are used, at the beginning.\n\nA near derivative of the sketch appears in the BBC Radio show \"I'm Sorry I'll Read That Again\" Series 7, Episode 5 on 9 February 1969, in which the cast (Cleese, Graeme Garden, Tim Brooke-Taylor, Bill Oddie and David Hatch) in the guise of old buffers at a gentlemen's club, employ the same trope of out-doing each other for hardship, this time in the context of how far and how slowly they had to walk to get to various places in former days. It ends with the same payoff line \"...and if you tell that to the young people today, they won't believe you...\"\n\nCleese and Chapman were later among the founding members of the comedy group Monty Python. The \"Four Yorkshiremen\" sketch has been performed by Python during their live shows \"Live at Drury Lane\" (1974, no video recording available), \"Live at the Hollywood Bowl\" (1982) and \"Monty Python Live (Mostly)\" (2014, performed at The O₂), each performance varying slightly in its content. (Tim Brooke-Taylor and Marty Feldman receive special thanks in the closing credits of \"Live at the Hollywood Bowl\" due to the inclusion of the sketch.) The performers in each case were Chapman (replaced by Cleese in the 2014 performance), Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin (Palin is the only member of the group actually from Yorkshire). It was also performed by Cleese, Jones, Palin and Rowan Atkinson for \"The Secret Policeman's Ball\", the 1979 Amnesty International benefit gala.\n\nThe sketch was revived for the 2001 Amnesty show \"\", performed by Harry Enfield, Alan Rickman, Eddie Izzard and Vic Reeves. In 1989 the script was published in the charity fundraiser \"The Utterly, Utterly Amusing and Pretty Damn Definitive Comic Relief Revue Book\" under the title \"The Good Old Days\", with the characters named as Joshua, Obadiah, Josiah and Ezekiel. This book was launched on an edition of the primetime chat show \"Wogan\" where the sketch was performed by Terry Wogan, Stephen Fry, Gareth Hale and Norman Pace.\n\nIn the mid-1990s the Hungarian comedy group translated and performed an adapted version of the sketch, substituting \"four millionaires\" for the Yorkshiremen. The sketch had a particular resonance for older Hungarians as exaggerating the level of your family's poverty and proletarian origins was a common practice to gain favour with Communist authorities in the immediate post-war period through to the 1950s.\n\nIn March 2015 the sketch was revived and adapted in a live television performance for Red Nose Day 2015 by Davina McCall, John Bishop, David Walliams and Eddie Izzard, in which they exaggerate what they did to raise money for charities.\n"}
{"id": "1953365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953365", "title": "Liss, Hampshire", "text": "Liss, Hampshire\n\nLiss (previously spelt Lys or Lyss) is an English village and civil parish in the East Hampshire district of Hampshire, 3.3 miles (5.3 km) north-east of Petersfield, on the A3 road, on the West Sussex border. It covers 3,567 acres (14 km²) of semi-rural countryside in the South Downs National Park. Liss railway station is on the Portsmouth Direct Line. The village comprises an old village at West Liss and a modern village round the 19th-century station. They are divided by the River Rother. Suburbs later spread towards Liss Forest.\n\nFlint spearheads, arrowheads, scrapers, flakes and cores dating from Palaeolithic and Mesolithic times have been found.\n\nEvidence of Neolithic activity is present in axe heads and flint implements. An Irish decorated axe and two bracelets engraved with parallel lines and chevrons have been found, and there are plentiful Bronze Age features on the chalk hangers above the village and at Berry Grove, the Wylds and at Peacewood, Farther Common. There was settlement in the Rother Valley by the Bronze Age. Bowl barrows and other Bronze Age features exist at Berry Grove (bowl barrow located in the garden, 12 m in diameter and 1.5 m high, with two large oaks growing on it), the Wylds (bowl barrow 23.0 m in diameter, and 2.0 m high, surrounded by a tree ring of dry stone walling planted with fir trees; traces of human and animal hair were found in a tree trunk coffin burial), and at Peacewood, Farther Common (an almost circular enclosure on a slight northern slope, containing trees).\n\nThere is evidence of Roman settlement in Liss.\n\nNo direct evidence of habitation or Anglo-Saxon architecture exists in the current Liss village area, and the early Saxon period is also slightly represented archaeologically in the whole area of East Hampshire. It seems unlikely that there was any major community on the site of the original or the current villages.\n\nHowever, the comparative remoteness was useful when in the late Saxon at 900 Alfred the Great created an Abbey at Lyss Place under the control of St. Mary's Abbey at Winchester as a retreat for nuns.\n\nIn the time of Edward the Confessor (1042–1066), the penultimate Anglo-Saxon king, there was a mill in operation at Liss paying an annual rent.\n\nLocal historians indicate their belief that St Peter's Church has Saxon footings, and that the remaining plan reflects an earlier Saxon Church on the site. However, Taylor and Taylor do not list St Stephen's and no fabric is evident. Hopefully future opportunities for specialist archaeological work will clarify the order of construction.\n\nThe earliest written mention of Liss (as \"Lyss\") may be that found in the Domesday book.\n\nIn 1086, at the time of the Domesday Survey, the manor of Liss might have formed part of the original endowment of the Abbey of St. Mary at Winchester. The manor was later known as Liss Abbess, and the Abbess and nuns of Winchester kept the land until the Dissolution of the Monasteries in 1538.\n\nThe earliest wooden church is normally regarded as one of the two churches mentioned as being held by two priests of the manor of Odiham in Domesday Book. It would have been deeded by King Stephen, with the churches of Bentworth and Odiham for the master of the Choristers' School of Salisbury and the chancellor of the cathedral.\n\nThe village centre in what is now West Liss around Church Street and the nearby triangular patch of ground, the Plestor (derived from 'playstow', or playground – see Plestor House). The Village Stocks were sited here, near an ancient oak which, now entirely hollow, remains in front of the current \"Spread Eagle Inn\".\n\nLiss developed economically in the three centuries following Domesday although being of limited significance politically or economically other than in relation to the monastic establishment at Lyss Place. Part of Liss Place Farm, West Liss. dates from the 14th century with an addition of 19th-century date, and a prosperous farming community can reasonably be assumed. Farms existed throughout the parish. To the East, timber framed houses and farms were constructed in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nA traditional fair was held in May in the field between the \"Spread Eagle Inn\" and Church Street, opposite the glebe meadow where Liss Cricket Club now plays.\n\nServing the community, St Peter's Church, (West) Liss, was built in stone in the 13th century, replacing the earlier timber structure. The Chancel, parts of tower, and octagonal piers of arcade date from C.13. The existing Octagonal font, mullioned and transomed window in south aisle and indeed the distinctive weatherboard top stage of tower are later.\n\nLiss Church was attached to the church of Odiham which appointed the curate-in-charge and remained so until 1867 when it was separated and the Rev. W. French, who had been the curate, was appointed the first Rector of Liss by the Bishop of Winchester.\n\nThe manor, Liss Abbess, remained in the hands of the Abbess and nuns of Winchester until the Dissolution of the Monasteries in 1538. It then remained Crown property until about 1610. The monastic establishment at Lyss Place then passed into private ownership and was subsequently held variously by the Cole, Fitzpatrick, Taylor and Hawkshaw families.\n\nOne route of the Pilgrims' Way between Winchester and Canterbury passes through Stodham, Balls Farm, Woodlands Farm, Barn Place Farm, Ciddy Hall Farm, Palmers Farm (resting place for pilgrims), Reeds Farm leaving the parish past Brewells Farm.\n\nLiss remained primarily an agricultural village in an open setting, but became known in the 19th century for the production of peppermint, an industry sponsored by the Money family of Stodham Park. The mint was grown, distilled and sold at 4d a pint.\n\nThe bounds of the parish were apparently beaten yearly. Local historians indicate that a small boy was traditionally put in the oven of the \"Flying Bull Inn\", as the parish boundary was believed to pass through the kitchen of the inn.\n\nMajor transformations of the landscape physical and social, began at this time.\n\nStodham Park House was built about 1820 as part of the Money family Estate. It has three storeys and a basement with an imposing four-pillared porch with steps to the main door. Clara Maria Burdett, apparently tracing her family to the Norman Conquest, married into the Money-Coutts of Stodham Park (died 22 December 1899) and lived at the house. The family donated the existing Village Hall.\n\nThe village was radically altered in 19th century, essentially being moved eastwards by new developments. The newer centre is late Victorian in character. The Southern Railway came from the North East to East Liss (and then along the Rother Valley towards Portsmouth) in 1859. East Liss became the Village of Liss.\n\nThe enclosure of the commons and wastelands (see Inclosure Act) occurred in 1864. Station Road, St Mary's Road, Western Road, the shopping area, the beginning of Hill Brow Road, Andlers Ash Road, Liss Forest Road, Mint Road, the original village school and the Village Hall were all built on enclosed land. Under the Inclosure Award the West Liss Recreation Ground, the four allotments sites \"for the labouring poor of the parish\" and a number of roads were created. Under the local-government reforms of 1894, management of the village's affairs passed from Vestry to the new Parish Council.\n\nSt Mary's Church was built in 1892/94 (Arthur Blomfield) to serve the new parts of the village, replacing St Peter at West Liss, which remains an intact 13th-century structure with its few later additions. The original construction of St Mary's consisted of a chancel with a north transept for the organ and a vestry, and a nave with north and south aisles and a north porch in plain 13th-century style. It is built of local sandstone with dressed quoins, with brick lining.\n\nThe Education Board Schools were built in 1872, and enlarged in 1878 and again in 1888.\n\nIn 1911, an iron mission hall is recorded at Hill Brow with a Wesleyan chapel at East Liss, and for Plymouth Brethren a meeting-house at West Liss.\n\nThe tower of St Mary's was added in 1932 – again from local sandstone – and it became the Parish Church in 1959. In the 1940s and 1950 it was often described locally and unflatteringly as \"the Stump\".\n\nIn 1933 a military railway known as the Longmoor Military Railway was built from Liss Station to the Longmoor Military Camp. This caused a further increase in population. The railway was used as a set for many films including \"The Great St Trinian's Train Robbery\" and \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\".\n\nIn light of the reducing role of the British military in the 1960s, it was decided by the Ministry of Defence to close the railway. Local locomotive preservation groups, on hearing of its impending closure, became interested in acquiring the complete rail system to establish a unique transport museum. Bids were placed to purchase the LMR along with the airstrip at Gypsy Hollow. However the MOD rejected the proposal, although it was backed by the Association of Railway Preservation Societies and The Transport Trust. Instead the Army offered to hand over the last 1½ miles of line from Liss Forest Road to Liss. The offer was accepted by the societies and a provisional lease was drawn up while planning permission was sought for developments at Liss.\n\nHowever some in Liss did not share the enthusiasm for a rail museum and opposed the planning permission. A residents group raised £9,100 in a successful bid to buy this last piece of line. Longmoor Military Railway closed down with a ceremonial last day of operation on 31 October 1969, though for another two years some locomotives and stock remained on site, and there were occasional movements. Three items of rolling stock (a van, a brake van, and a bogie flat) still remain on the Longmoor site as part of the FIBUA training village.\n\nImmediately after World War II, local authority housing was built in East Liss under the William Beveridge programmes. Since the mid-1960s, a number of large new estates have extended the village and increased its population. The 1965 Harcos development at Patrick's Copse and Greenfields etc. has been extended several times since the 1970s to cover existing landscaped open ground and traditional marshland.\n\nThe early estates contain houses of different sizes, and initially of uniform 1960s estate style. Such development is now subject to much criticism in relation to local architectural style and appropriate rural village design (see Poundbury Village, Cornwall). Newer, and smaller developments on brownfield sites have been necessitated by increasing population pressure, and government policy which continues.\n\nIn the early 1990s Liss Junior School moved from its central village location to a site 300 yards from the village centre on the Hill Brow Road. Some of the old school building has been reused as the Triangle Centre; other buildings were demolished to make way for new housing and playing fields. The mid-1990s junior school was designed by Hampshire County Council's Architecture and Design Service.\n\nIn the 1980s new red brick shopping areas and housing have extended the centre of the village where rough grazing for horses previously existed, and added a new supermarket unit, other shops and office space. The 1920s white façade of Smiths Garage nearby, has recently (2007) been demolished and the land cleared for new housing completed in 2016.\n\nThe Village Hall was modernised and a green oak bus shelter added in 2006. Hampshire County Council's Mobile Library Service has served Liss since the 1960s. There are three East Hampshire District Council car parks in Liss.\n\nThe construction of the Petersfield & Liphook bypass (A3 road) as a four-lane limited-access dual carriageway past West Liss, has removed much through traffic from the centres of Petersfield and Liphook, and some traffic from the old A3 (now the B2070) and Farnham Rd, West Liss (formerly part of the A325 between Petersfield and Farnham).\n\nThe large \"Ham Barn\" roundabout has been created to distribute vehicles from the A3 on the B3006 towards Liss and Selborne. Areas of West Liss are now close to the carriageways, which has changed their rural and medieval character. Dependent on the wind direction, the sound from the road can be heard in East and West Liss and throughout the area, in the Hangars and Hill Brow. Environmental damage and limited effectiveness of new road building has been predicted by groups such as Road Alert.\n\nThe population of Liss is approximately 6,000. It is assumed that the demographic profile has shifted from a largely rural base to accommodate commuters due to good road (\"A3\") and railway (\"Portsmouth Direct Line\") links to London. Liss is served by Liss railway station.\n\nThe local newspapers are the broadsheet \"Petersfield Herald\", and the tabloid \"Petersfield Post\".\n\nLiss Infants School caters for children aged 4–7, (years R–2). The head teacher is Teresa Offer. The school is on an adjoining site to Liss Junior School, a state school catering for children aged 7–11 (years 3–6). This was opened in 1994 after moving from the centre of the village. The head teacher is Jilly Myers. There are a number of pre-school nurseries. One situated in the Triangle Community Centre was previously the village school.\n\nLiss has a Non-League football club Liss Athletic F.C., which plays at The Newman Collard Playing Fields. Liss has a successful Road Running Club, Liss Runners, and a long-established cricket club. There is also a tennis club, the Newman Collard, and a new Petersfield Golf Club on the site of Tankerdale Farm. The sports and other amenities in Liss are being improved by the charity the Newman Collard Pavilion Fund.\n"}
{"id": "1953372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953372", "title": "Bécancour, Quebec", "text": "Bécancour, Quebec\n\nBécancour () is a city in the Centre-du-Québec region of Québec, Canada; it is the seat of the Bécancour Regional County Municipality. It is located on the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River at the confluence of the Bécancour River, opposite Trois-Rivières.\n\nWôlinak, an Abenaki Indian reserve, is an enclave within the town of Bécancour. They arrived from Norridgewock, Maine (formerly Acadia) in the aftermath of Father Rale's War.\n\nThere was a small migration of Acadians to the village (1759), after the British began the Expulsion of the Acadians from the Maritimes. Specifically, the Acadians migrated from present-day New Brunswick to avoid being killed or captured in the St. John River Campaign.\n\nThe town of Bécancour was created October 17, 1965, from an amalgamation of eleven municipalities. Bécancour was one of the province of Quebec's first amalgamated cities. At the time, Bécancour was the largest city in Quebec in terms of land area (as of 2003, the title belongs to La Tuque, Quebec).\n\nBécancour is now divided into six \"secteurs\" (lit. \"sectors\"): Bécancour, Saint-Grégoire, Gentilly, Précieux-Sang, Sainte-Angèle-de-Laval, and Sainte-Gertrude. Bécancour, Saint-Grégoire and Gentilly, each located near the shore of the Saint Lawrence River, can be considered the main urban centres. Autoroute 55 intersects Autoroute 30 and Route 132 at Saint-Grégoire.\n\nBécancour is part of the Trois-Rivières metropolitan area; many residents work in Trois-Rivières and commute across the Laviolette Bridge daily. The economy of Bécancour, once mainly agricultural, shifted towards heavy industry and manufacturing in the 1970s and 1980s. An industrial park was built in the area, attracting producers of aluminum, magnesium, refractory metals, and petroleum products; machine shops; and many related services, such as excavators and sales of industrial parts. A nuclear power plant, Gentilly Nuclear Generating Station, was commissioned in 1983 in the Gentilly sector; it was decommissioned in 2012.\n\nDespite its proximity to Trois-Rivières, Bécancour has a vibrant culture and identity of its own. The city hosts a hot air balloon festival, a weekly public marketplace, a biodiversity museum and interpretation centre, and a maritime pumpkin race.\n\nConstituent municipalities of Bécancour included:\n\n\nAnd the villages of:\n\n\nAccording to the Canada 2011 Census:\n\n\n\n\nFloral emblem: Lilac\n\nBird: Ruby-throated hummingbird\n\nSlogan: \"De nature énergique\"(\"An energetic nature\")\n\n"}
{"id": "1953375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953375", "title": "Sandvík", "text": "Sandvík\n\nSandvík (pronounced , \"Sandy Bay\"; ) is the northernmost village of the island of Suðuroy in the Faroe Islands. It is situated on the northern side of a shallow fjord. The village was previously known as Hvalvík (\"Bay of Whales\"). It changed its name to Sandvík in 1913 as there was too much confusion regarding mail delivery, because there is another village named Hvalvík on Streymoy. The village had originally been known as Sandvík during the Viking Age.\n\nSandvík is the place where Viking chief Sigmundur Brestisson was murdered after his long swim from Skúvoy in an attempt to flee from Tróndur í Gøtu. When Sigmundur came ashore exhausted to what he thought would be safety, the local farmer Torgrímur Illi fell upon him with his sons, and decapitated him for the golden bracelet he wore on his arm.\n\nIn 1349 the village became deserted, the inhabitants having been wiped out by the Black Death. It would not be until 1816 that the village was once more inhabited.\n\nThe church in Sandvík was built Á Bø in Froðba in 1840. Later, in 1856, it was moved to Tvøroyri, because more people lived there than in Froðba. And finally in 1908 it was moved to Sandvík, after Tvøroyri got a new and larger church.\n\nOn 13 February 1915 a tragic accident occurred in Sandvík during a whale hunt in the bay. Two of the boats capsized and 14 of 15 young men on board lost their lives, they came from Sandvík and the neighbouring village, Hvalba. Later a memorial was raised in Sandvík in memory of the 14 men.\n\nSandvík is connected to the road system of the island through a 1500-metre tunnel, which was bored through the mountains in 1969. The tunnel has only one lane, and passing places where cars can go aside in order to let other cars pass by. The tunnel is located up in the mountain on the southern arm, on the opposite side of the village, which is located on the northern arm of the bay.\n\nThere is a small museum called \"Húsið uttan Ánna\" (The House by the River) in the centre of the village. It is located in a traditional Faroese house dating from 1866. The house has a turf roof.\n\nA narrow road leads from Sandvík to the west coast where many sea birds nest in the cliffs. Ásmundarstakkur is a 97-metre high detached sea stack which is home to puffins and other sea birds.\n\nAt least two writers came from Sandvík: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953376", "title": "Price support", "text": "Price support\n\nIn economics, a price support may be either a subsidy or a price control, both with the intended effect of keeping the market price of a good higher than the competitive equilibrium level.\n\nIn the case of a price control, a price support is the minimum legal price a seller may charge, typically placed above equilibrium. It is the support of certain price levels at or above market values by the government.\n\nA price support scheme can also be an agreement set in order by the government, where the government agrees to purchase the surplus of at a minimum price. For example, if a price floor were set in place for agricultural wheat commodities, the government would be forced to purchase the resulting surplus from the wheat farmers (thereby subsidizing the farmers) and store or otherwise dispose of it.\n\nIn a hypothetical market in which supply and demand are such that the equilibrium price and quantity are $5 and 500 units, respectively, and the government then institutes a price floor at $6 per unit:\n\nThe benefit to producers of the price support is equal to the gain in producer surplus (represented in blue).\n\nThe cost to consumers of the price support is equal to the loss in consumer surplus (represented in red).\n\nThe cost to the government of the price support is equal to the cost of the surplus in the market (represented in gray).\n\nHowever, since the consumers ultimately pay taxes for the government to purchase the surplus, the total cost to consumers (in the short run) of the price support is the sum of the loss in consumer surplus and the cost of the government purchasing the surplus off the market.\n\nIn other words, consumers are paying $1650 in order to benefit producers $550 so price supports are considered inefficient.\n\nThe deadweight loss is the efficiency lost by implementing the price-support system. It is the change in Total Surplus and includes the value of the government purchase, and is equal to $1100.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953384", "title": "South Attleboro, Massachusetts", "text": "South Attleboro, Massachusetts\n\nSouth Attleboro is a neighborhood of Attleboro, a city in Bristol County, Massachusetts, United States. It is perhaps best known for the South Attleboro station on the Attleboro/Stoughton Line of the MBTA Commuter Rail. U.S. 1 (the old Norfolk and Bristol Turnpike) and Route 1A (the old Lower Boston Post Road) pass through the area, which lies just north of the Rhode Island state line. The neighborhood is occasionally referenced in the animated series \"Family Guy\", as being home of \"Jack's Joke Shop.\" The real Jack's Joke Shop was located on 226 Tremont Street in Boston, MA, until it closed.\n\nSouth Attleboro is home to 2 schools: Robert J Coelho Middle School and Hill Roberts Elementary School. Lees Pond Park, off of Route 1, attracts many locals for activities such as fishing, basketball, baseball, and swimming in one of the city pools. Route 1 hosts many businesses and fast food restaurants. Depending on the boundaries. South Attleboro has approximately 7-10 thousand people. Before the end of the industrial boom, most residents worked in the mills of Pawtucket and Central Falls, RI. In addition, the H&B factory on the state line employed over 1 thousand workers before shutting down in 1957. The factory was demolished in early 2016.\n\nThe South Attleboro Lions Club on Highland Avenue hosts the annual Lees Pond Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953393", "title": "Duleep Trophy", "text": "Duleep Trophy\n\nThe Duleep Trophy is a domestic first-class cricket competition played in India. Named after Kumar Shri Duleepsinhji of Nawanagar (also known as 'Duleep'), the competition was originally contested by teams representing geographical zones of India. Since 2016–17 it has been played by teams chosen by BCCI selectors. India Red are the current champions.\n\nThe competition was started by the Board of Control for Cricket in India in the 1961–62 season. The inaugural tournament was won by West Zone who defeated South Zone in the final by 10 wickets. In the 1962–63 season four of the five teams (all except Central Zone) had their bowling attacks strengthened by a West Indies Test cricketer.\n\nNorth Zone and West Zone have been the most successful teams with 18 wins each, although North's total includes one shared trophy and West's three.\n\nUntil 2014-15, five Indian zonal teams regularly took part in the Duleep Trophy – North Zone, South Zone, East Zone, West Zone and Central Zone. The original format was that the five teams played each other on a knock-out basis. From the 1993–94 season, the competition converted to a league format.\n\nFor the 2002–03 season, the zonal teams were replaced by 5 new teams – Elite A, Elite B, Elite C, Plate A and Plate B. These teams were constructed from the new Elite Group and Plate Group divisions which had been introduced into the Ranji Trophy that season. However, this format lasted for only one season as it was felt that the new teams lacked identity.\n\nFrom the 2003–04 season until 2008, the five original zonal teams competed along with a sixth guest team which was a touring foreign team. The first guest team was England A in 2003–04.\n\nAfter 2008 the format was replaced by the original 5-team knockout tournament until the 2014-15 season. The Duleep Trophy was not held in 2015-16 but returned to the calendar in 2016-17 with a new format. Three teams chosen by the BCCI selectors took part, designated India Blue, India Green and India Red. The teams played a round-robin tournament, with the top two advancing to the final which was won by India Blue. The competition was held at the start of the season and all games were staged as day-night games with a pink ball used.\n\nEach zonal team is a composite team of cricketers who play for the Ranji Trophy state/city teams situated in that region of India. The teams which compose each zone are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom the 2003–04 to the 2007-08 season, a foreign guest team competed as a sixth team in the Duleep Trophy.\n\nNote:The Wins include the shared trophies and the win percentage counts shared as half a win.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953401", "title": "Knock Shrine", "text": "Knock Shrine\n\nThe Sanctuary of Our Lady of Knock, usually named only as the Knock Shrine (, \"Hill of Mary\" or \"Mary's Hill\"), is a Roman Catholic pilgrimage site and National Shrine in the village of Knock, County Mayo, Ireland, where observers stated that there was an apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Saint Joseph, Saint John the Evangelist, angels, and Jesus Christ (the Lamb of God) in 1879.\n\nThe evening of Thursday, 21 August 1879, was a very wet night. At about 8 o'clock the rain beat down in driving sheets when Mary Byrne, a girl of the village, accompanying the priest's housekeeper, Mary McLoughlin, home, stopped suddenly as she came in sight of the gable of the little church. There she saw standing a little out from the gable, were three life-size figures. She ran home to tell her parents and soon others from the village had gathered. The witnesses stated they saw an apparition of Our Lady, Saint Joseph and Saint John the Evangelist at the south gable end of the local small parish church, the Church of Saint John the Baptist. Behind them and a little to the left of Saint John was a plain altar. On the altar was a cross and a lamb (a traditional image of Jesus), with adoring angels. A farmer, about half a mile away from the scene, later described what he saw as a large globe of golden light above and around, the gable, circular in appearance. For nearly two hours a group that fluctuated between two and perhaps as many as twenty-five stood or knelt gazing at the figures as rain lashed them in the gathering darkness.\n\nThe apparitions, for believing Catholics, held significant eschatological significance. Much work has been done to interpret the message received in the village by Catholic eschatological scholars such as Emmett O'Reagan.\n\nThe vision of Mary was described as being beautiful, standing a few feet above the ground. She wore a white cloak, hanging in full folds and fastened at the neck. She was described as \"deep in prayer\", with her eyes raised to heaven, her hands raised to the shoulders or a little higher, the palms inclined slightly to the shoulders.\n\nSaint Joseph, also wearing white robes, stood at the Virgin's right hand. His head was bent forward from the shoulders towards the Blessed Virgin. Saint John the Evangelist stood to the left of the Blessed Virgin. He was dressed in a long robe and wore a mitre. He was partly turned away from the other figures. Some witnesses reported that St. John appeared to be preaching and that he held open a large book in his left hand. To the left of St. John was an altar with a lamb on it with a cross standing on the altar behind the lamb.\n\nThose who witnessed the apparition stood in the pouring rain for up to two hours reciting the Rosary. When the apparition began there was good light, but although it then became very dark, witnesses could still see the figures very clearly – they appeared to be the colour of a bright whitish light. The apparitions did not flicker or move in any way. The witnesses reported that the ground around the figures remained completely dry during the apparition although the wind was blowing from the south. Soon the entire apparition wall was torn apart by pilgrims chipping out the cement, mortar, and stones for souvenirs and to use for cures.\n\nAn ecclesiastical Commission of inquiry was established by the Archbishop of Tuam, Most Rev. Dr. John MacHale, on 8 October 1879. The Commission consisted of Irish scholar and historian, Canon Ulick Bourke, Canon James Waldron, as well as the parish priest of Ballyhaunis and Archdeacon Bartholomew Aloysius Cavanagh. Depositions of witnesses were taken in the ensuing months. The deliberations of the commission, referred only to the occurrence on 21 August 1879, which omitted \"subsequent phenomena\", and as a result, there exists no official record for events that occurred after that date.\n\nThe evidence which was the commission's duty to record, satisfied all the members and was deemed trustworthy. Among the considerations were whether the apparition emanated from natural causes, and whether there was any positive fraud. In the first cited particular, it was reported that no solution as from natural causes could be offered; and in the second consideration, that such a suggestion had never, even remotely, been entertained. The commission's final verdict was that the testimony of all the witnesses taken as a whole was trustworthy and satisfactory.\n\nAs most of the documents from the early years at Knock were assumed to have been lost, a second Commission of inquiry in 1936, was forced to rely upon interviews with the last of the surviving witnesses (who confirmed the evidence they gave to the first Commission), their children, press reports and devotional works printed in the 1880s, which portrayed the developing cult in a positive light. The surviving witnesses confirmed the evidence they gave to the first Commission.\n\nThe growth of railways and the appearance of local and national newspapers fuelled interest in the small Mayo village. Reports of \"strange occurrences in a small Irish village\" were featured almost immediately in the international media, notably \"The Times\" (of London). Newspapers from as far away as Chicago sent reporters to cover the Knock phenomenon. Canon Ulick Bourke joined Timothy Daniel Sullivan and Margaret Anna Cusack in developing Knock as a national Marian pilgrimage site. Knock pilgrimages combined traditional Irish practices like rounds of the church and all night vigils with devotions like the stations of the cross, benediction, processions, and the recitation of litanies. Priests associated with the Fenian movement often led pilgrimages to Knock.\n\nJohn White sees the silence of the apparition related to a cultural change occurring at that time. \"It was necessary for Cavanagh to preach in English and Irish each Sunday as the schools saw to the replacement of Irish with English as the language of the young. This linguistic crisis may be connected with the silence of the Knock visions, as the oldest witness, Bridget Trench, had no English, while the youngest, six-year old John Curry, was being educated with no Irish.\"\n\nAccording to Joe Nickell, in addition to \"serious discrepancies\" in the witnesses' accounts, it is possible for natural phenomena to account for the apparition. With the help of an astronomer who recreated the sky of the time via computer, it was determined that the evening sun was above the horizon for the duration of the event. There was also a school near the site with a wall angled toward the south gable of the church. The suggestion is that the sun served as the light source, which reflected off the school's windows (presumed to have been there) and produced a \"natural version of a magic-lantern effect\". Nickell explains that \"odd shapes [from diffuse reflections] could produce the requisite pareidolia ... effects in susceptible individuals, especially those who were motivated to see something \"miraculous\" and were familiar with similar holy pictures.\"\n\nA number of cures and favours are associated with visitors to Our Lady of Knock's Shrine and those who claim to have been cured here still leave crutches and sticks at the spot where the apparition is believed to have occurred. Each Irish diocese makes an annual pilgrimage to the Marian Shrine and the nine-day Knock novena attracts ten thousand pilgrims every August. The miracle is also known as Our Lady of Knock by the church.\n\n\nThe complex incorporates five churches including the Apparition Chapel, Parish Church and Basilica, a Religious Books' Centre, Caravan and Camping Park, Knock Museum, Café le Chéile and Knock House Hotel. Services at the Shrine include organised pilgrimages, daily Masses and Confessions, Anointing of the Sick, Counselling Service, Prayer Guidance and Youth Ministry. While the original church still stands, a new Apparition chapel with statues of Our Lady, St Joseph, the Lamb and St John the Evangelist, has been built next to it. Knock Basilica is a separate building showing a tapestry of the apparition.\n\nMother Teresa of Calcutta visited the Shrine in June 1993.\n\nIreland's National Eucharistic Congress was held at the Marian Shrine in Knock over 25 and 26 June in 2011. An estimated 13,000 pilgrims attended.\n\nThough it remained for almost 100 years a major Irish pilgrimage site, Knock established itself as a world religious site in large measure during the last quarter of the twentieth century, largely due to the work of its longtime parish priest Monsignor James Horan. Horan presided over a major rebuilding of the site, with the provision of a new large Knock Basilica (the second in Ireland) alongside the old church. Horan secured from Irish Taoiseach Charles Haughey millions of pounds of state aid to build a major airport near Knock. The project was condemned by critics in the media. At the time the Irish economy was in depression with massive emigration. Contrary to the critics' expectation however, since 2003, flag-carrier, low-cost and regional airlines including Aer Lingus, MyTravelLite, Bmibaby, Ryanair, Aer Arann, flybe, Lufthansa and EasyJet have added routes to the UK and mainland Europe. Not all have proven successful, but by 2005 the airport was handling 500,000 passengers per annum.\n\nOn 13 May 2017, Cardinal Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan celebrated a requiem mass when John Curry, the youngest witness to the Knock apparition, was reinterred in St. Patrick's Old Cathedral cemetery in Lower Manhattan after being disinterred from an unmarked grave on Long Island.\n\nThe parish priest at the time of the apparition was The Very Reverend Bartholomew Aloysius Cavanagh, who was also Archdeacon of the diocese. Widely considered a holy priest in spite of his siding with landlords against the growing Land League movement, he was appointed parish priest of Knock-Aghamore in 1867, and was about 58 at the time of the apparition. He died in 1897 and is buried in the Old Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953414", "title": "Frederick William Lehmann", "text": "Frederick William Lehmann\n\nFrederick William Lehmann (February 28, 1853 – September 12, 1931) was a prominent American lawyer, statesman, United States Solicitor General, and rare book collector.\n\nHe was born February 28, 1853 in Prussia. His father Friedrich Wilhelm Lehmann emigrated to Cincinnati, Ohio, when Frederick was two, where he ruled the family with an iron hand. His mother Sophia died young.\n\nAt age 10, Frederick ran away from home forever. As a vagabond, selling newspapers, working on farms, and herding sheep, he wandered across the Midwest, rarely going to school. In his teens, at the urging of his fellow sheep men, he took the stump for presidential candidate Horace Greeley and gave his first political speech.\n\nAt 17 he worked as a farm-hand for Judge Epenetus Sears of Tabor, Iowa. Sears was impressed with the boy's ability and sent him to Tabor College, where he graduated in 1873. After reading law in his benefactor's office, Lehmann practiced in Tabor, Sidney, Nebraska City, and Des Moines, Iowa. He married Nora Stark of Indianola on December 23, 1879, and he represented the Wabash Railroad.\n\nA noted orator, he was active in Iowa politics, including the election of Governor Horace Boies. In 1890 he moved with his family to St. Louis, Missouri and continued to represent the Wabash while building a general law practice. In 1908 he was elected president of the American Bar Association and served twice.\n\nPresident William Howard Taft named Lehmann as United States Solicitor General in 1910. In the Supreme Court of the United States Lehmann established the right to tax corporation incomes. He considered national bank affiliates to be illegal. About Lehmann's oral arguments, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. told Felix Frankfurter that Lehmann was so persuasive \"I don't dare decide against Lehmann. You feel as though you're ruling against God.\"\n\nIn 1912 he returned to practice law in St. Louis with his sons.\n\nIn 1914, however, he and Justice Joseph Rucker Lamar represented the United States at the ABC Powers Conference in which Argentina, Brazil, and Chile mediated between the United States and Mexico on the Veracruz Incident.\n\nCases in his private practice established the right of the Associated Press to news as intellectual property, he secured the Telephone Company's right to valuation on reproduction cost less depreciation, and he preserved the Coca-Cola Company's right to use \"\"Coca\"\" against a claim that it was fraudulent since actual cocaine had been removed from the drink formula.\n\nIn 1918 he became counsel for the Railway Wage Commission. He supported the forced separation of investment banks, commercial banks and brokerages (a policy later implemented in the Glass–Steagall Act of 1933) quoting: \"No man can serve two masters.\" (\"Matthew\" 6:2), alluding to an inherent conflict of interest: investment banks promote the sale of investments, even risky ones, but commercial banks have a duty to avoid risky investments. Lehmann also vigorously opposed Prohibition.\n\nRepresenting the U. S. government in the Supreme Court, he would \"confess error\", a practice in which the Solicitor General admits that the government has been wrong all along and just drops the case even when supported by a lower court's prior decision. Inscribed in the office rotunda of the Attorney General is Lehmann's famous saying, when a judge had remarked that he seemed to be supporting the opposing side: \"The United States wins its point whenever justice is done its citizens in the courts.\"\n\nFrederick Lehmann always refused to run for public office, especially at a party convention of the breakaway Gold Democrats (opposed to the Free Silver candidate William Jennings Bryan) in St. Louis which he chaired (being foreign-born, he could not run for President anyway), and he declined judgeships. In politics he was generally a Democrat, if sometimes a Gold Democrat. In 1909 he drafted the charter by which the City of St. Louis is still run today.\n\nHe was a founder of the St. Louis Art Museum and the State Historical Society of Missouri, president of the St. Louis Public Library, and a director of the St. Louis World's Fair (Louisiana Purchase Exposition) of 1904, in which he was host of the Universal Congress of Jurists and Lawyers. He was a bibliophile and he collected rare first editions of Charles Dickens, Robert Burns and others, and artworks of Aubrey Beardsley, George Cruikshank and Thomas Rowlandson. He and industrialist William K. Bixby started the Burns Society; he was twice president of the University Club of St. Louis. He had a remarkable (possibly eidetic) memory—when writer Henry James visited his house, Lehmann could recite whole works that James himself had written but forgotten. For most his life Lehmann was in demand as a public speaker, which he thoroughly enjoyed. His published works included: John Marshall (1901); The Lawyer in American History (1906); Abraham Lincoln (1908); Conservatism in Legal Procedure (1909); Prohibition (1910); and The Law and the Newspaper (1917).\n\nIn old age he auctioned off his rare book collections. He died September 12, 1931, aged 78, survived by his wife and three sons, lawyers Sears Lehmann, Frederick W. Lehmann, Jr., and John Stark Lehmann. He was buried in Bellefontaine Cemetery in St. Louis.\n\nThree special collections at Olin Library, Washington University in St. Louis, include a selection of Lehmann's legal papers (including his time as Solicitor General), a collection of historic manuscript letters of notable people, and rare editions of works of Robert Burns and others. There is also a Frederick Lehmann Autograph Collection at the Missouri Historical Society, St. Louis.\n\nFrederick W. Lehmann's house at No. 10 Benton Place in St. Louis is now preserved as the \"Lehmann House\" Bed and Breakfast.\n"}
{"id": "1953421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953421", "title": "South Attleboro station", "text": "South Attleboro station\n\nSouth Attleboro is an MBTA Commuter Rail station in Attleboro, Massachusetts. Located underneath Newport Avenue in the South Attleboro neighborhood, it serves the Providence/Stoughton Line. It is the MBTA's southernmost station on the line in Massachusetts, located almost exactly on the border with Rhode Island. It includes a large park-and-ride lot to serve commuters from the nearby cities of Pawtucket and Central Falls.\n\nHistorically, there was no station on the site where the modern station now exists. (This is unusual; most stations opened under the MBTA have been located on the sites of former stations). The nearest stations were Hebronville, 2 miles to the east, and Pawtucket/Central Falls an equal distance to the west. Hebronville closed long before the MBTA era, while Pawtucket/Central Falls closed on February 20, 1981 when Rhode Island stopped funding commuter rail service to Providence. \n\nIn August 1987, the MBTA approved plans to build a new station at South Attleboro to relieve crowding at Attleboro station. Commuter service returned to Providence on February 1, 1988, but the Pawtucket/Central Falls station remained closed. The planned South Attleboro station site at Route 1A was located less than a mile east of the point where the line entered Rhode Island - thus allowing the MBTA to reach the Pawtucket/Central Falls market without a second stop in Rhode Island, which Rhode Island did not wish to pay for - and offered room for a parking lot whereas the downtown Pawtucket location did not.\n\nThe $3 million station was completed in September 1988; however, the Massachusetts Architectural Access Board (MAAB) refused to let the station open. The station did not meet state requirements for accessibility; the footbridge had only stairs and no ramps, and no high-level platforms had been built. The MAAB insisted on full-length high-level platforms, while the MBTA wished to build cheaper -long \"mini-high\" platforms. \n\nThe MBTA's appeal of the MAAB ruling (which came two years before the Americans with Disabilities Act mandated accessibility nationwide) had system-wide impliciations, particularly for the then-inaccessible Green Line. A judge ruled in favor of the MBTA, which constructed mini-high platforms and ramps to the footbridge. In March 1990, the MBTA and MAAB reached an agreement under which existing mini-high platforms would be extended to long, and would be installed at all commuter rail stations by 1997 (which did not occur). South Attleboro station ultimately opened on June 20, 1990. The station was the weekend terminus of the line until June 29, 2006, when Rhode Island began funding weekend service to Providence.\n\nIn the 2010 Northeast Corridor Master Plan, Amtrak indicated long-term plans to add two outer station sidings and high-level platforms to South Attleboro, allowing Amtrak trains to pass stopped MBTA trains. More immediately, portions of the station are in poor condition, with a 2012 report indicating that two sets of stairs were closed due to rust damage. Although the station has mini-high platforms for level boarding, certain ADA-required elements such as tactile platform edges are missing. MBTA plans for a $4.9 million renovation, which would not have fixed the footbridge, were criticized by local officials. In November 2019, $4 million for design of a more extensive renovation was approved by the MBTA Fiscal Management Board. The project will include a new footbridge with elevators, an improved bus stop, and changes to the parking lot. Construction of the $30-40 million project is planned to begin in 2021; some repairs may be made in the interim.\n\nUntil recently, South Attleboro had no bus connections. By federal law, bus systems like RIPTA that receive federal funds usually cannot cross state lines; thus, despite demand, RIPTA could not run directly to the station. In 2009, the agency considered building a $300,000 bus turnaround for the 77 (now 1) route just over the Rhode Island border. In 2013, RIPTA began a two-year-long systemwide reorganization that includes combining, rerouting, and simplifying numerous bus routes; one specific objective of the project was to secure federal permission to run directly to South Attleboro. As part of this, two routes now terminate directly at the station:\n\nAlthough South Attleboro is within the GATRA service area, it has no close connections with GATRA routes. The nearest GATRA service is local bus routes 11 and 24, which run to downtown Pawtucket on Washington Street (US-1), a mile to the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953425", "title": "Additional Protocol II", "text": "Additional Protocol II\n\nProtocol II is a 1977 amendment protocol to the Geneva Conventions relating to the protection of victims of \"non-international\" armed conflicts. It defines certain international laws that strive to provide better protection for victims of \"internal\" armed conflicts that take place within the borders of a single country. The scope of these laws is more limited than those of the rest of the Geneva Conventions out of respect for sovereign rights and duties of national governments.\n\nAs of February 2020, the Protocol had been ratified by 169 countries, with the United States, India, Pakistan, Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Israel being notable exceptions. However, the United States, Iran, and Pakistan signed it on 12 December 1977, which signifies an intention to work towards ratifying it. The Iranian signature was given prior to the 1979 Iranian Revolution.\n\nHistorically, international law of armed conflict addressed traditional declarations of war between nations. When the Geneva Conventions were updated in 1949 after the Second World War, delegates sought to define certain minimum humanitarian standards to situations that had all the characteristics of war, without being an international war.\n\nThese negotiations resulted in Article 3, common to all four of the basic treaties of the Geneva Conventions of 1949. Common Article 3 applies to \"armed conflicts\" that are not of an international character, but that are contained within the boundaries of a single country. It provides limited protection to victims, including:\nBy the 1970s, diplomats were attempting to negotiate clarifications to the brief language of Article 3, and to extend the scope of international law to cover additional humanitarian rights in the context of internal conflicts. These efforts resulted in Protocol II of the Geneva Conventions. The debate over this protocol centered on two conflicting ideas. First, that the distinction between internal and international armed conflict is artificial from the point of view of a victim. Humanitarian principles should apply regardless of the identity of the combatants. Second, that international law does not apply to non-international situations. A nation has sovereignty within its borders, and must not accept judgments by and orders from other countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953435", "title": "United States temperature extremes", "text": "United States temperature extremes\n\nFor the United States, the extremes are in Death Valley, California in 1913 and recorded in Prospect Creek, Alaska in 1971.\n\nThe largest recorded temperature change in one place over a 24-hour period occurred on January 15, 1972 in Loma, Montana, when the temperature rose from . \n\nThe most dramatic temperature changes occur in North American climates susceptible to Chinook winds. For example, the largest 2-minute temperature change of occurred in Spearfish, South Dakota, a rise from .\n\nAmong the U.S. states, Hawaii has both the lowest state maximum of and the highest state minimum of . Tropical ocean island locations such as Hawaii often have the lowest recorded temperature ranges, sometimes with a difference of as little as .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953437", "title": "Royal Cotillion", "text": "Royal Cotillion\n\nRoyal Cotillion is a solitaire card game which uses two decks of 52 playing cards each. The name probably derives from the fact that since the two kings and two queens of the same suit, the king and queen of each suit dance the cotillion. Authors Sloane Lee and Gabriel Packard (in their book \"100 Best Solitaire Games\", ) gave this game the alternate (but little-known) name of Lords and Ladies because if the game is won, the final layout will show the king and queen of each suit together.\n\nFirst, the ace and the deuce (two card) of each suit is removed and are laid down on the tableau. The Aces take up the left column, the deuces at the right column. These cards make up the foundations.\n\nThen twelves cards are laid to the left of the aces in four columns of three cards, either overlapping or laid out in a grid. Their side (the left wing) is called \"the ladies' side.\" After that, sixteen cards are laid out to the left of the deuces in a 4x4 grid. Their side (the right wing) is called \"the lords' side.\"\n\nAll cards on the lords' side are available for play and if any of them is moved to the foundations, it is replaced from the top card of the waste pile. In case a waste pile is not yet available, replacement cards are laid from the stock. On the other hand, the top cards of each column on the ladies' side (if overlapping; the card and the lowest tier of each column if laid out) are the only ones available and once any of them is moved, it is not replaced. Each of the cards cannot be transferred from one side to the other or to any pile on the same side; they can be only transferred to the foundations.\n\nBuilding on both the Ace and Deuce foundations is up by suit in twos. Therefore:<br>\nA: 3-5-7-9-J-K-2-4-6-8-10-Q<br>\n2: 4-6-8-10-Q-A-3-5-7-9-J-K\n\nIf the player has made all possible moves, or all moves the player wanted to make, the player then deals the cards from the stock one at a time to the wastepile, the top card of which is available for play. The stock can only be dealt once.\n\nThe game is won when all cards end up in the foundations, each having thirteen cards, with the Kings at the right column and the Queens at the left.\n\nGavotte or Odds and Evens (also known in Lee and Packard's book as Palace) is a solitaire variant of Royal Cotillion. It has two differences to the parent game:\nIt is a rare solitaire game which is found only in \"The Complete Book of Solitaire and Patience Games\" and is playable as a JSolitaire game.\n\n\"See: solitaire terminology\"\n"}
{"id": "1953447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953447", "title": "Legend (Bob Marley and the Wailers album)", "text": "Legend (Bob Marley and the Wailers album)\n\nLegend is a compilation album by Bob Marley and the Wailers. It was released in May 1984 by Island Records. It is a greatest hits collection of singles in its original vinyl format and is the best-selling reggae album of all-time, with over 15 million copies sold in the United States and an estimated 28 million copies sold globally. In 2003, the album was ranked number 46 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time, maintaining the rating in a 2012 revised list.\n\n, it has spent a total of 609 nonconsecutive weeks on the \"Billboard\" 200 album chart—the second longest run in history. \n\nThe album contains all ten of Bob Marley's Top 40 hit singles in the UK up to the time, plus three songs from the original Wailers with Peter Tosh and Bunny Livingston in \"Stir It Up,\" \"I Shot the Sheriff,\" and \"Get Up, Stand Up,\" along with the closing song from the album \"Uprising\", \"Redemption Song.\" Of the original tracks, only four date from prior to the \"Exodus\" album.\n\nThe cassette tape release of the album featured two extra songs, \"Punky Reggae Party,\" the B-side to the \"Jamming\" single, and \"Easy Skanking\" from the \"Kaya\" album. A second generation compact disc remastered by Barry Diament appeared in 1990 on the Tuff Gong label. Although the disc includes the same 14 songs, the tracks are in their original album lengths rather than the edited versions for single release.\n\nOn 12 February 2002, the expanded 14-track edition with songs at album lengths were remastered for compact disc with a bonus disc consisting of 1984-vintage remixes for extended dance club singles and dub versions. In 2004, the \"Legend\" double-disc deluxe edition was reissued with the music DVD of the same name in the sound + vision deluxe edition. In 2010, \"Legend\" was made available as downloadable content for \"Rock Band\". However, it was released without \"Get Up, Stand Up\", which was later included on \"Rock Band 3\". In June 2012, a high fidelity audiophile version of the album was released on HDtracks in 96 kHz/24bit and 192 kHz/24bit resolutions.\n\n\"Legend\" holds the distinction of being the second longest-charting album in the history of \"Billboard\" magazine. Combining its chart life on the \"Billboard\" 200 and the Top Pop Catalog Albums charts, \"Legend\" has had a chart run of 992 non-consecutive weeks, surpassed only by \"The Dark Side of the Moon\" at 1574 weeks. As of the issue date of 28 September 2013, the album has charted on the \"Billboard\" 200 for 285 non-consecutive weeks. As of December 2017, the album has sold 12.3 million copies in the US since 1991 when SoundScan started tracking album sales, making it the ninth best-selling album of the Nielsen SoundScan era. The RIAA has certified \"Legend\" for selling 15 million copies, a total that includes purchases before 1991.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Legend\" has been certified 11× Platinum, and is the 16th best-selling album in that country of all time, with sales of over 3,380,000 as of July 2016.\n\nAs of December 2014, the album has sold more than 33 million copies worldwide.\n\nDespite its generally positive reception, \"Legend\" has been criticized for being a deliberately inoffensive selection of Marley's less political music, shorn of any radicalism that might damage sales. In 2014 in the \"Phoenix New Times\", David Accomazzo wrote \"Dave Robinson, who constructed the tracklist for \"Legend\", [said that] the tracklist for \"Legend\" deliberately was designed to appeal to white audiences. Island Records had viewed Marley as a political revolutionary, and Robinson saw this perspective as damaging to Marley's bottom line. So he constructed a greatest-hits album that showed just one face of the Marley prism, the side he deemed most sellable to the suburbs. [...] If you're looking for mass-market appeal to secular-progressive America, you don't include songs that invoke collective guilt over the slave trade, nor do you address the inconvenient truth that the bucolic Jamaican lifestyle of reggae, sandy beaches, and marijuana embraced by millions of college freshmen, exists only because of the brutal slave trade. [...] the songs on \"Legend\" offer just a brief glimpse into his music. The definitive album of the most important reggae singer of all time is a hodgepodge collection of love songs, feel-good sentiment, and mere hints of the fiery activist whose politics drew bullets in the '70s.\" Vivien Goldman wrote in 2015, \"when he does get played on the radio now, it’s the mellow songs, not the angry songs, that get heard – the ones that have been compiled on albums such as \"Legend\".\"\n\nWhen first released in the US in 1984, pressings contained remixes of \"No Woman, No Cry,\" \"Buffalo Soldier,\" \"Waiting In Vain,\" \"Exodus\" and \"Jammin',\" done in 1984 by Eric Thorngren. (International pressings substituted the remixes for either album versions or 7\" edits.) Two versions of the CD were released in Europe in 1984; one used the same mastering as the US pressing, the other (mastered by Rob Fabroni and Barry Diament) used original full length versions for all the tracks. Pressings from 1986 on used the international version of the release until 2002, when a two-disc deluxe version released by Universal replaced all tracks with their respective album versions (except for \"No Woman, No Cry,\" which is the full length version from the \"Live!\" album) and included the two extra tracks from the cassette release as bonus tracks. That version was released individually as part of \"\"The Definitive Remasters\"\" series. When track №. 13 [Exodus, released on the album \"Exodus\" by Bob Marley & The Wailers in 1977 by Tuff Gong/Island] begins, the noise at the ending of Bob Marley's \"Satisfy My Soul\" [released on the album \"Kaya\" by Bob Marley & The Wailers in 1978 by Tuff Gong/Island] plays at the start. \n\nIn celebration of the 30th anniversary, the compilation was re-released (as its \"\"The Definitive Remasters\"\" form) in two formats:\n\n"}
{"id": "1953448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953448", "title": "Ilkka Remes", "text": "Ilkka Remes\n\nIlkka Remes (born 13 December 1962) is a Finnish author of thrillers and young adult literature. Remes was born in Luumäki as Petri Pykälä. Remes has stated he uses a pseudonym because he does not want to be considered only a thriller writer, and wants to be able to write other genres of books in the future.\n\nRemes lives in Belgium with his wife and two children. He was awarded the \"Kalevi Jäntti Literature Award\" in 1997, the \"Clue of the Year Award\" from the Finnish Detective Novel Society in 1999 and the Olvi Foundation Literature Award in 1999.\n\nThe Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs Erkki Tuomioja commented on Remes' book \"Ruttokellot\" on his homepage in January 2001. His review on the book was rather negative and he found it troubling that so many of the antagonists in Remes' books were of Russian origin. (see Russophobia).\n\nRemes has written 15 thrillers which have enjoyed significant domestic popularity. The names in parentheses are direct translations.\n\n\nOf the above, \"Ruttokellot\" (\"Blutglocke\"), \"Ikiyö\" (\"Ewige Nacht\"), \"Hiroshiman portti\" (\"Das Hiroshima-Tor\"), \"Nimessä ja veressä\" (\"Höllensturz\"), \"6/12\" (\"Die Geiseln\") and \"Pahan perimä\", (\"Das Erbe des Bösen\") have been translated into German.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953460", "title": "Vaidotas", "text": "Vaidotas\n\nVaidotas (fl. 1362) was a son of Kęstutis, Grand Duke of Lithuania. In reliable historical sources he is mentioned only twice: as defender of Kaunas Castle in 1362 and as ruler of Navahrudak. Due to very limited information, his life is subject to wide-ranging theories by historians.\n\nAccording to the chronicles of Wigand of Marburg, he was the commander of the garrison of the newly built Kaunas Castle during the three-week siege in April 1362. After strong resistance the castle was taken over and then destroyed. Vaidotas with 36 men tried to break through, but was taken prisoner. The defeat was one of the largest and important military victories of the Teutonic Knights in the 14th century against Lithuania.\n\nIn a 1401 document his brother Grand Duke Vytautas wrote that some years before Vaidotas and his brother Tautvilas Kęstutaitis were given to rule Navahrudak equally, but it is unclear when that occurred. Historians proposed 1365 as the most likely date. \n\nBecause of very limited historical sources, Vaidotas is sometimes confused with Vaidutis (Waydutte), son of Butautas and grandson of Kęstutis. Further confusion is introduced by the Bychowiec Chronicle, an unreliable chronicle from the 16th century, which claims that Vaidotas died in his youth in Lithuania. C. S. Rowell argued that Butautas and Vaidotas were the same person and their names were recorded differently because of different dialects.\n\nIn his 1999 monograph on the early Gediminids, Polish historian provided the following biography of Vaidotas: he was the eldest son of Kęstutis and Birutė; was captured at Kaunas in 1362, but returned before 1365 and received Navahrudak; converted to Eastern Orthodoxy and was baptized as Ivan; had two sons Jerzy and Konrad; in 1384, during the Lithuanian Civil War (1381–84), accompanied Vytautas to the Teutonic Order; in 1389, visited the Order as Vytautas' envoy; died after 1390. Many of these conclusions are based on many conjectures and the assumptions that Ivan accompanying Vytautas is not Ivan Olshansky, that son Jerzy is not , and that son Konrad is not Tautvilas Kęstutaitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953463", "title": "Student Christian Movement", "text": "Student Christian Movement\n\nStudent Christian Movement may refer to one of the following national organizations:\n\nIt may also refer to the international umbrella organization:\n\n"}
{"id": "1953469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953469", "title": "List of compositions for cello and orchestra", "text": "List of compositions for cello and orchestra\n\nThis is a list of musical compositions for cello and orchestra ordered by their authors' surnames.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAntonín Kraft\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJoaquín Rodrigo\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953470", "title": "Freifunk", "text": "Freifunk\n\nFreifunk (German for: \"free radio\") is a non-commercial open grassroots initiative to support free computer networks in the German region. Freifunk is part of the international movement for a wireless community network. The initiative counts about 400 local communities with over 41,000 access points. Among them, Münster, Aachen, Munich, Stuttgart, and Paderborn are the biggest communities, with more than 1,000 access points each.\n\nThe main goals of Freifunk are to build a large scale free wireless Wi-Fi network that is decentralized, owned by those who run it and to support local communication. The initiative is based on the Picopeering Agreement. In this agreement, participants agree upon a network that is free from discrimination, in the sense of net neutrality. Similar grassroots initiatives in Austria and in Switzerland are FunkFeuer and Openwireless.\n\nLike many other free community-driven networks, Freifunk uses mesh technology to bring up ad hoc networks by interconnecting multiple Wireless LANs. In a Wi-Fi mobile ad hoc network, all routers connect to each other using special routing software. When a router fails, this software automatically calculates a new route to the destination. This software, the Freifunk firmware, is based on OpenWrt and other free software.\n\nThere are several different implementations of the firmware depending on the hardware and protocols local communities use. The first Wi-Fi ad hoc network was done in Georgia, USA in 1999 as demonstrated by Toh.It was a six-node implementation running the Associativity-Based Routing protocol on Linux kernel and WAVELAN WiFi. But ABR was a patented protocol. Following that experience, Freifunk work on standard IETF protocols - the two common standard proposals are OLSR and B.A.T.M.A.N. The development of B.A.T.M.A.N. is driven by Freifunk activists on a volunteering basis.\n\nOne of the results of the \"BerLon\" workshop in October 2002 on free wireless community networks in Berlin and London was the Picopeering Agreement. This agreement about rationales of free networks describes how the transmission of other people's data is handled in a free network and has become a core agreement of the community. During the workshop, participants also agreed upon regular meetings in Berlin to build their own free wifi network. Ever since, there have been weekly meetings at c-base Hackerspace every Wednesday. At the same time, the German language site freifunk.net was started.\n\nIn September 2003, Freifunk activists founded the non-profit association \"Förderverein Freie Netzwerke e.V.\" to support free communication infrastructures.\n\nIn the following years, the initiative became quite successful all over Germany, also because it became easier to install the Freifunk firmware on off-the-shelf wireless routers. There is a yearly \"Wireless Community Weekend\" taking place in Berlin, at c-base.\n\nIn 2012, the Berlin Freifunk community got a lot of media attention for a project called \"Freifunk Freedom Fighter Box\". The project fights secondary liability: Secondary liability is the legal situation that makes the owners of open / non-encrypted wireless access points liable for what other users do over their internet connection, as outlined in the Störerhaftung law (). The owners can thus be forced to pay for copyright infringements of third persons just because they opened their network to the public. This legal practice led to fear and uncertainty and made many people close their access points, e.g. in cafés or in public locations. The \"Freifunk Freedom Fighter Box\" was a preconfigured access point that sent all data from the public network to Sweden over a VPN connection. In Sweden (as in most other countries), there is no secondary liability.\n\nIn 2013, the Hamburg Freifunk community set up a network of more than 300 nodes, using VPN tunnels to the Netherlands. Many new Freifunk communities emerged. In Berlin, the community is building a backbone network based on microwave transmission over longer distances. This project is funded by the local broadcasting corporation \"Medienanstalt Berlin-Brandenburg\" and is still on-going in Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953476", "title": "MR2", "text": "MR2\n\nMR2 or MR-2 may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1953483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953483", "title": "St Matthias, Bristol", "text": "St Matthias, Bristol\n\nSt Matthias (known colloquially as St Matts) used to belong to the University of the West of England. The campus is located in the suburb of Fishponds in Bristol.\n\nThe campus was previously a teacher training college, originally called the Gloucester and Bristol Diocesan Training Institution for School Mistresses, which opened in 1853 and was later the humanities campus for UWE Bristol. As part of a project dedicated to the history of the campus, staff and students both past and present, share their memories of their time on campus.\n\nThe original buildings were constructed in 1851-2 by John Bevan with Jonathan Clarke, in a Gothic Revival style. The building was extended in 1903. Today it is a grade II* listed building and the lodge is listed grade II.\n\nRecords of the Bristol Diocesan Training College, later St Matthias' College, are held at Bristol Archives (Ref. 37168) (online catalogue) and (Ref. BROFA/0078) (online catalogue).\n\nSt Matthias was home to departments within the faculty of Creative Arts, Humanities and Education, including:\n\nThe campus has some Victorian Gothic buildings, and is set around a quad.\n\nThe University of the West of England closed the campus in September 2014 (with operations on the site ceasing on 4 July 2014) as a part of a relocation project. The various departments of the faculty of Creative Arts, Humanities and Education from St Matthias and Bower Ashton have moved to new facilities at Frenchay campus. As part of the planned closure UWE and the UWE Students' Union held a 3 day farewell party to celebrate the campus, its history, staff, ex- staff, students and alumni.\n\nIn March 2014 it was announced that, subject to planning permission, the site would be sold and redeveloped by Barratt Developments for housing and the listed buildings would become a Steiner School.\n"}
{"id": "1953491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953491", "title": "Glenside, Bristol", "text": "Glenside, Bristol\n\nGlenside campus is the home of the Faculty of Health and Applied Sciences at the University of the West of England (UWE), in Bristol. It is located on Blackberry Hill in the suburb of Fishponds. Its clocktower is a prominent landmark, visible from the M32 motorway. Several of the buildings on the site are Grade II listed.\n\nBy 1844, St Peter's Hospital for Pauper Lunatics, in what is now Castle Park, was overcrowded and not fit-for-purpose. Bristol Corporation therefore ordered a new hospital to be built outside of the city in Stapleton. Opened in 1861, Bristol Lunatic Asylum was designed by Henry Crisp and built next to the co-located Stapleton Work House (now Blackberry Hill Hospital).\n\nIn 1914, the hospital was requisitioned by the War Office, renamed Beaufort War Hospital and 931 patients were transferred to other asylums in the West of England, with 45 patients remaining to work in the hospital grounds. The artist Stanley Spencer worked as a medical orderly at the Beaufort from 1915 to 1916.\n\nIn 1919, following the cessation of hostilities, the hospital returned to its former mental health function. Some time before the Second World War it was named Glenside Mental Hospital, and with the NHS reforms the Mental Health Act 1959 it was renamed Glenside Hospital. In 1961, there were 1,012 patients.\n\nIn January 1993, Glenside and neighbouring Manor Park Hospital merged to become the jointly named Blackberry Hill Hospital. Patients of Glenside were assessed for capability, with many placed within the Care in the Community programme, while the residual were moved into new buildings constructed on the former Manor Park site for their long term care.\n\nFrom 1992, the hospital began closing wards, and the site was converted into the Avon and Gloucestershire College of Health in a phased programme over three years.\n\nIn 1996, the Avon and Gloucestershire College of Health and Bath and the Swindon College of Health Studies joined with the University of the West of England to purchase the former Glenside site, and converted it into the UWE Faculty of Health and Social Care, currently the faculty of Health and Applied Sciences.\n\nThe museum, founded by Dr Donal F. Early, used to be situated in the balcony of the canteen, but has since re-located to the Grade II listed Glenside Chapel. The museum's collection consists of a wide range of paraphernalia and images from the life of Glenside and of the local Learning Disability Hospitals of the Stoke Park Group and the Burden Neurological Institution. The museum charges no entrance fee, but depends on donations from the public, and currently opens every Wednesday and Saturday from 10am to 12pm.\n\nRecords of Glenside Hospital and the original Bristol Lunatic Asylum are held at Bristol Archives (Ref. 40513).\n\nThe Faculty of Health and Applied Sciences includes the following departments:\n\nThe faculty offers full and part-time courses at all levels, from BSc and Diploma courses to MSc and PhD, plus a wide range of continuing education, in the areas of Midwifery, Nursing, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Radiography, Social Work and other health-related professions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953496", "title": "Sottomarina", "text": "Sottomarina\n\nSottomarina is a small town on a peninsula which has the same name. It is a \"frazione\" of the comune of Chioggia, which is part of the Metropolitan City of Venice in the Veneto region in north-eastern Italy.\n\nSottomarina is a peninsula which protrudes into the Lagoon of Venice, forming its southern coastal tract. The other parts of the coastline of this lagoon are the barrier islands of Pellestrina and Lido, in the middle, and the peninsula of Cavallino in the north. Sottomarina is separated form Pellestrina by the Chioggia inlet. The lagoon side of its coast is by the islands which form the town of Chioggia and on the eastern side of the Val di Brenta, southernmost basin of the lagoon. It southern end is cut through by the mouth of the River Brenta. The peninsula is narrow at the northern end as it widens and it progress southwards. The town is close to Chioggia and it is connected with it by a 700 m bridge.\n\nThe main settlement in Sottomarina was known as \"Clodia Minor\" in the 7th century AD. This distinguished it form \"Clodia Major\", which is now the town of Chioggia. These Latin names then morphed into Chioggia Minore and Chioggia Maggiore. The settlement was governed by its own tribune and issued its own laws. It was connected to Chioggia by a stone bridge. It had the churches of San Martino, Sant'Antonio Abate, San Matteo, a hospital and a castle with a tower on an islet named after it (Buoncastello), just off the northeastern corner of the peninsula.\n\nThe town was destroyed in 1379, during the War of Chioggia between the Republics of Genoa and Venice. The senate of the Republic of Venice forbade its rebuilding until the second half 17th century. During that period it was uninhabited and subject to floods. In the 18th century, the \"murazzi, the imposing Istrian stone bank was built to protect Sottomarina from storm surges.\n\nAt the southern end of Sottomarina there is the hamlet of Brondolo. The doge Teodato Ipato (742-55) had a fort built at Brondolo to protect the southern end of the Duchy of Venice.\n\nThere used to be a small lagoon, the lagoon of Brondolo, south of the Lagoon of Venice and close to Brondolo, to its southeast. The two lagoons were connected by the Brondolo inlet. The Republic of Venice carried out a number of southwards diversions of the river Brenta, which was causing silting in the central area of the Lagoon of Venice. In one of these it was taken to flow into another part of the lagoon, in the Val di Brenta basin, on its shore opposite Chioggia, with the creation of a canal called Brenta Nova, which was completed in 1507. Then the Venetians built the Parador di Brondolo, an embankment, to cut this river off the Lagoon of Venice and to separate this lagoon form the Lagoon of Brondolo. It was taken to the Brondolo inlet and made to flow into the latter lagoon. This was completed in 1577. Since this lagoon was closed off from the sea, it was turned into a freshwater coastal lake in a couple of centuries due to the river bringing in freshwater. Later this lagoon silted as the river brought in its sediments.\n\nThe last diversion of the Brenta occurred in the 1930s with the construction of an embankment to take this river to the sea. This was done to prevent further silting, to safeguard the local flora and fauna, which were being compromised, and to prevent malaria. Since then, the southern side of the coast of Sottomarina has been widening at an average rate of three metres a year due to the sediments brought to the shore by the river.\n\nTraditionally the inhabitants of this peninsula were farmers, while those of Chioggia were fishermen. Today Sottomarina is primarily a busy seaside resort, thanks to its proximity to Venice, Padua, Vicenza, Verona and Rovigo. The first beach resorts, together with an over 2 km long promenade, were built in 1900-1903. The sandy beach is 5 1/2 km long and reaches a width of 300 metres in some places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953498", "title": "Surface core level shift", "text": "Surface core level shift\n\nA surface core level shift (SCS) is a kind of core-level shift that often emerges in X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy spectra of surface atoms.\n\nBecause surface atoms have different chemical environments from bulk atoms, small shifts of binding energies are observed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. SCS is ascribed mainly to the lower coordination numbers of surface atoms than bulk atoms. Reduced coordination leads to narrower valence bandwidth. Such narrowing of the bandwidth increases the density of states, and if more than half of the valence band is filled, the band center is lower than bulk and the binding energy increases. In contrast, if less than half of the valence band is filled, the band center is higher than bulk, and the binding energy decreases.\n\nBecause the binding energy in X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy is affected by the final state and other chemical environments, this simple explanation cannot always be applied to the interpretation of X-ray photoelectron spectra. In spite of such complexity, the SCS gives important information about the chemical nature of surface atoms.\n"}
{"id": "1953499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953499", "title": "Espérance Sportive de Tunis", "text": "Espérance Sportive de Tunis\n\n' (), also known as ES Tunis, ', or most popular name for nowadays Mkachkha , or simply EST for short, is a sports club based in Bab Souika, Tunis, Tunisia. The club was founded in 1919 and its colours are red, yellow and black. Their home stadium, Stade Olympique de Radès, has a capacity of 65,000 spectators. The club is currently playing in the Tunisian Ligue Professionnelle 1.\n\nEsperance is the most successful Tunisian club; domestically, they have won 29 Tunisian Ligue Professionnelle 1 titles, 15 Tunisian Cup and 4 Tunisian Super Cup.\nEsperance won a total of 48 domestic trophies, more than any other Tunisian football club.\nAt international level, Esperance has won 12 titles, with 8 organized by Confederation of African Football.\n\nThe club was founded in Bab Souika which is one of the historic gates of the capital of Tunisia, Tunis on January 15, 1919 in the French protectorate. The club was named Taraji in Arabic after the name of the coffeehouse where the founders used to often meet each other. So far ES Tunis has 29 Tunisian League wins, 15 Tunisian Cups, and 4 Tunisian Supercups. At the continental level, the club has won 4 CAF Champions League, one African Cup Winners' Cup, one CAF Cup, one CAF Super Cup and one Afro-Asian Cup, making it one of the most successful African clubs.\n\nIn 2001, Espérance set a new Tunisian record by winning the national title four years in a row, beating the previous record of three, set by Italia de Tunis in 1937. They extended this run to seven consecutive titles in 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"As of Tunisian Ligue Professionnelle 1:\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953516", "title": "List of golfers with most European Tour wins", "text": "List of golfers with most European Tour wins\n\nThis is a list of golfers who have won eight or more events on the European Tour since it was established in 1972. There are some complications in preparing such a list, and different publications have produced different numbers. This list is based on what the European Tour reports the victories being according to their own player guide (through the 2009 season).\n\nThe number of wins a player can accumulate on the European Tour depends in part on how many years he devotes to the tour. There have always been some leading European players or European Tour members from outside Europe who have gone on to play part or full-time on the U.S.-based PGA Tour and cut back their commitments in Europe, and this seems to be an increasing trend.\n\nMany of the players on the list have won many events on other tours and unofficial events. The numbers in the \"Majors\" column are the total number of major championships the player won in his career whether or not he was a member of the European Tour at the time.\n\nPlayers under 50 years of age are shown in bold. At age 50, golfers become eligible for the major senior tours, most notably the European Senior Tour and the U.S.-based PGA Tour Champions, competing for substantial prize money against other golfers in that age group. Only Miguel Ángel Jiménez has ever won a European Tour event after turning 50 (doing so four months after his 50th birthday in 2014), and only three golfers of that age have won on the PGA Tour since 1975.\n\nPlayers with the same number of wins are listed alphabetically. This list is up to date through 19 January 2020.\n\nH signifies members of the World Golf Hall of Fame.\n\n\nThere are additional players who won eight or more tournaments on the pre-tour European circuit and the European Tour in the period straddling 1972 who are not included on the list.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953517", "title": "Butautas", "text": "Butautas\n\nButautas (baptized \"Henryk\"; died on May 7, 1380 in Prague) was a son of Kęstutis, Grand Duke of Lithuania. He attempted to depose his uncle Algirdas and usurp power in Lithuania, but failed and was forced into exile. He joined the court of the Holy Roman Emperor and even inspired a poem about conversion to Christianity. Butautas is sometimes confused with his brother Vaidotas.\n\nThe first written record about Butautas comes from Jan Długosz. The historian describes Lithuanian raids into Masuria in 1336 and mentions Butautas, son of Gediminas. Because of confused fathers, this information is not considered reliable. \n\nThe first reliable data comes from summer of 1365. While Algirdas and Kęstutis were in Volhynia helping their brother Liubartas in the Galicia–Volhynia Wars, Butautas together with other nobles attempted a \"coup d'état\". However, the plans were discovered by Dirsūnas, deputy of Vilnius. Butautas was arrested, but his accomplice or brother Survila rescued him and killed Dirsūnas. The coup failed and Butautas, Survila, and fifteen followers had to flee to the Teutonic Knights. Historian S. C. Rowell questioned whether the coup really happened as it is mentioned only in a late German source. \n\nIn Köningsberg, Butautas was baptized as Henryk in honor of the Commander of Insterburg on July 25, 1365. Two Bishops, John of Warmia and Bartholomew of Sambia were summoned for the ceremony, also attended by English crusaders, including Earl of Warwick and Thomas Ufford. In August, he led a Teutonic raid deep into Lithuania reaching as far as Vilnius and Vilkmergė. During the 12-day raid Kernavė and Maišiagala were devastated.\n\nSometime between August 1366 and April 1368, Butautas departed to Prague to join the court of Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor. Survila remained with the Knights. Charles gave Butautas lands and the noble title of duke (Herzog). Butautas is mentioned as a witness to several treaties and companion of the emperor on several trips, including one to Italy to Pope Urban V. He witnessed imperial charters issued in Modena, Lucca, Rome, Udine, Prague, Tangermünde, and Jerichow. This last charter listed Butautas as \"King of Lithuania\" together with imperial family and before papal legates and other Bohemian dukes. At some point, the court was visited by German poet Schondoch who later composed a poem how an unnamed \"Lithuanian king\" was converted into Christianity. \n\nClarles died in 1378. Just two years later Butautas died in Prague and was buried in St. Thomas' Church. In 1413, his brother Vytautas the Great ordered Requiem Mass and gave the church a large carpet. Because of this activity sometimes 1413 is given as Butautas' date of death.\n\nIt is known that Butautas left one son, Vaidutis, in Lithuania. He also emigrated to the west in 1381 at the age of sixteen. After his father's death he studied in Paris until 1387. In 1401, after his return to Poland, his cousin Jogaila, King of Poland, appointed him as the rector of the Jagiellonian University. He died in 1422.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953519", "title": "Planet Online", "text": "Planet Online\n\nPlanet Online was a UK business-to-business Internet Service Provider. Based in Leeds, it was started by local businessman and multi-millionaire Peter Wilkinson and Paul Sykes in July 1995.\n\nManaged from a purpose-built NOC in Leeds, Planet's network was first switched on in October 1995 with over 2,000 businesses connected by the end of the following year. The office in Leeds was shared with hardware specialist and sister company ESS, with the two formally merging on 1 January 1997. The merged company retained the Planet Online name.\n\nPlanet was sold to Energis in August 1998 for £85m at a time when it carried around 40% of all internet traffic in the UK. In August 2000 the company was renamed \"Energis Squared\" and given new branding consistent with that of its parent. It was later integrated into the rest of the Energis business, losing its separate identity.\n\nPlanet notably provided the back-end infrastructure for the consumer ISP Freeserve, led by John Pluthero, which helped it to become one of the UK's few profitable ISPs at that time. Then as Cable & Wireless Worldwide, itself led by Pluthero until 2011 and now as part of Vodafone the company continues to provide similar services to Freeserve's ultimate successor, Orange Broadband.\n\nThe company was winner of the Best Business ISP award at the ISPA Internet Industry Awards in 1999 and 2000.\n"}
{"id": "1953530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953530", "title": "National Library of Serbia", "text": "National Library of Serbia\n\nThe National Library of Serbia () is the national library of Serbia, located in the capital city of Belgrade. It is the biggest library, and oldest institution in Serbia.\n\nIn 1832, the library was established by bookbinder Gligorije Vozarović in his bookstore, and its first collection consisted of gifts of publisher and bookseller Vozarović and other Serbian cultural figures. On 28 February 1832, Dimitrije Davidović sent a letter on the organization of the library to Miloš Obrenović. In November of the same year, Prince Miloš ordered that one copy of each printed book be made available to the library.\n\nDuring World War I, the Library building and collections were damaged by bombing, so the remaining holdings were moved from Belgrade to Niš and Kragujevac for their protection. After the War, and according to the National Library Act and the Press Law, both from 1919, the Library became the central state Library and obtained the right to acquire an obligatory copy from all over the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nThe bombing in the World War II by the Luftwaffe of the main country's Library in a city proclaimed officially open completely destroyed the Library building including a book collection of 500.000 volumes, an invaluable collection of 1424 Cyrillic manuscripts and charters, a collection of old maps and prints of roughly 1,500 items, collections of 4,000 journals as well as 1,800 newspaper titles, its rich and irreplaceable archives of Turkish documents about Serbia and the complete correspondence of distinguished figures of the cultural and political history of Serbia, and all holdings lists and catalogs.\n\nAfter the liberation of Belgrade in 1944, under the changed social conditions, there was a period of intensive reconstruction of the lost collections and rapid development of the Library.\n\nAfter the devoted work of the Library staff, the Library again opened its doors to the public in 1947. In 1954, on the 150th anniversary of the First Serbian Uprising, the construction of a new building for the National Library was allowed, and the new Library building (Architect: Ivo Kurtović) was opened with a special ceremony on 6 April 1973. It is located in the Vračar municipality, sharing the naturally elevated plateau with Temple of Saint Sava, as the highest peak of that part of Belgrade.\n\nThe renovation of the NLS Interior has been launched in 2007 and was ended in mid-2011, covering the following segments: the main entrance hall for users with exhibition space, the stairway of the entrance hall for users, the toilets at the ground floor and on floor, coffee bar with the kitchen, atrium, main hall on the floor level (floor, ceilings, lighting, information desks for users), all reading rooms at floor level, official entrance at the level of higher ground floor, hall and stairs, the apartment for foreign guests-researchers at the level of lower ground floor, the complete lighting of the NLS and the balconies for users at the level of the main hall and floors. The renovated area for the users was opened in September 2011, opening its doors to many existing and new users.\n\nNowadays, the National Library of Serbia is a modern national library. Its goals are: incorporation into the world's information flows, recognition within the world's family of national libraries, as well as becoming an information resource and drive for the development of Serbian society.\n\nGeneral collection includes: books printed after 1868 in Serbian and other ex-Yu languages and books printed after 1700 in foreign languages, periodicals from Serbia, ex-Yu and abroad, bibliographies, encyclopedias, lexicons, catalogs, dictionaries, directories in classical and electronic form, organized in an open access reference stock.\n\nSpecial collections contain: old and rare books containing printed books in 18th and 19th century in languages of ex-Yu as well as foreign books up to 1700, bibliophile and miniature editions, literary and other manuscripts and archival documents, cartographic materials, printed music material and phonograms, photographic documents, engravings and picture material, placards and information materials, memorial libraries and legacies.\n\nManuscript collection includes: handwritten books from 12th to 18th century, mostly Serbian and small numbers of Bulgarian, Macedonian and Russian editions, incunabula and old Serbian printed books from 1494 to 1638, prints from old Serbian carved tablets from 16th to 18th century, microfilms of South Slavonic Cyrillic manuscripts.\n\nDigital library of the National Library of Serbia contains 1.2 million scanned pages in about 70 different collections (Cyrillic manuscripts, old and rare books, books, Serbian children's digital library, newspapers and magazines, cartographic materials, engravings and art material, photographic materials, posters and documentary material, printed music and sound records, catalogs and bibliographies, miscellaneous). NLS also participates in the several international projects such as World Digital Library, with the goal of making Serbian digitised heritage accessible and searchable together with the cultural heritage of other countries. NLS is a partner of the project \"Europeana Collections 1914-1918\" and as a part of this project has published a thematic digital library \"Veliki rat\" (Great War) with valuable collections from World War I period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953544", "title": "Bisley (solitaire)", "text": "Bisley (solitaire)\n\nBisley is a solitaire card game which uses a deck of 52 playing cards. It is one of the few one-deck games in which the player has options on which foundation a card can be placed.\n\nFirst the four aces are taken out and laid on the tableau to start the foundations. Then four columns of three cards are placed overlapping each other separately under the aces. After that, nine columns of four cards, also overlapping each other, are dealt to the right of the aces and first four columns.\n\nHere is the method of game play:\n\nThe game is won when all cards end up in the foundations. It actually does not matter where the ace and king foundations of each suit would meet and how many cards the ace and king foundations of each suit will have. At the end of one game for example, the K♠ is the only one on its foundation while the rest of spade cards are built on the A♠; the A♣ remains unbuilt because all club cards are built on the K♣; the A♥ is built up to 4♥ while the K♥ is built down to 5♥; and the A♦ is built up to 8♦ while the K♦ is built down to 9♦. In fact, the ace and king foundation of a suit can meet anywhere.\n"}
{"id": "1953556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953556", "title": "Accra Hearts of Oak S.C.", "text": "Accra Hearts of Oak S.C.\n\nAccra Hearts of Oak Sporting Club, commonly referred to as Hearts of Oak or just Hearts is a professional sports club based in Accra (Greater Accra), Ghana. The club competes in the Ghana Premier League, the Premier division on the Ghanaian football pyramid. The Ohene Djan Sports Stadium (former Accra Sports Stadium) is their home grounds where they play their home games. Hearts has won the Premier League twenty times, the FA cup a record ten times, the President's Cup twice, and the CAF African Champions League and the CAF Confederations Cup each once.\nHearts of Oak was also ranked 8th football club in the world in the year 2000 when the club dominated most of the continent sporting activities.\n\nThe club was founded on 11 November 1911. Hearts of Oak won their first major match in 1922 when Sir Gordon Guggisberg, governor of the Gold Coast, founded the Accra Football League. Hearts won 6 out of 12 seasons in this league. In 1956, Hearts joined the Ghanaian football league and have flourished since.\n\nIn the year 2000, Hearts of Oak won the Ghana FA cup, the Ghana Premier League and for the first time in their history the CAF Champions League. This was the most successful year in the Clubs' history.\nOn May 9, 2001, 127 people died in Africa's worst footballing disaster. During a match between rivals, Hearts of Oak and Asante Kotoko. Trouble started when supporters of Asante Kotoko began ripping out seats in an act of hooliganism in protest at a goal allowed by the referee. The match was officiated by referee J.Wilson Sey, from Cape Coast. \nPolice reacted by firing tear gas into the crowd, it has been suggested that this was an over-reaction. Reports suggest that the gates to the ground were locked and the stadium was not up to FIFA standards. The rush to escape the tear gas was a contributory factor to the death toll. A commission inquiry, indicted six police officers in its initial report, but they were not convicted as it was deemed that the deaths could have been caused by the stampede instead of the tear gas.\n\nAccra Hearts of Oak play home matches at the Accra Sports Stadium. The Accra Sports Stadium formerly known as Ohene Djan Sports Stadium is currently under construction and holds an estimated 40,000 seats. \nAlthough purchased in the 1980s, the Pobiman Training Ground was only put to use in the summer of 2018. Construction for an expansion of the 19 acre site in the Pobiman neighborhood, is currently in the planning stages way. The club plans to build a state-of-the-art facility.\n\nAccra Hearts of Oak's longest established rivalry is with Asante Kotoko S.C. and their city rivals Accra Great Olympics FC.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee:\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAF_Clubs_of_the_20th_Century\n\nhttp://www.rsssf.com/miscellaneous/caf-ranking.html www.rsssf.com/n\n\n\"For all former players with a Wikipedia article see \"\n\n"}
{"id": "1953572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953572", "title": "Steve Yeager", "text": "Steve Yeager\n\nStephen Wayne Yeager (born November 24, 1948) is an American former professional baseball catcher. Yeager spent 14 of the 15 seasons of his Major League Baseball career, from 1972 through 1985, with the Los Angeles Dodgers. His last year, 1986, he played for the Seattle Mariners. As of 2012, Yeager was the Los Angeles Dodgers' Major League catching coach. He was co-MVP of the 1981 World Series.\n\nYeager was born in Huntington, West Virginia. He attended Meadowdale High School in Dayton, Ohio. Yeager hit two grand slams in a single game while playing for Meadowdale.\n\nHe is a cousin of the test pilot Chuck Yeager. Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley was the best man at his wedding to local rock musician Gloria Giaone. Yeager is Jewish, having converted to Judaism when his career was over. He later moved to Granada Hills, California.\n\nHe was drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers on June 6, 1967, in the 4th round of the 1967 Major League Baseball draft, when he was 18 years old. After one game with the rookie level Ogden Spikers of the Pioneer League, Yeager was sent to the Dodgers' Single-A affiliate, the Dubuque Packers of the Midwest League. The following season, in 1968, Yeager played 59 games for the Single-A Daytona Beach Dodgers of the Florida State League. In 1969, he played 22 games for the Bakersfield Dodgers, the Dodgers' Single-A affiliate in the California League, where he threw out 26 runners from behind the plate. That season he suffered a fractured leg in a first-inning collision with a runner at home plate, but was not aware how bad his injury was, and finished the game.\n\nYeager was promoted to Double-A before the end of the 1969 season, playing in one game for the Albuquerque Dodgers of the Texas League. He spent the next two-and-2/3 seasons with the Double-A franchise. In 162 games played over the 1970 and 1971 seasons, he hit .276, with 77 RBIs in 490 at bats. He threw out 84 runners, second in the league that year, and was named to the Texas League All-Star team as a catcher in 1971.\n\nIn spring training in 1972 he won the Dodgers writers' Dearie Mulvey Memorial Trophy as the best rookie. With the Dukes becoming the new Pacific Coast League Triple-A affiliate for the Dodgers in 1972, Yeager was promoted while remaining in Albuquerque for another season. “You won't beat that arm of his,” Tommy Lasorda said that season. With the Triple-A Dukes, he played 82 games, batting .280 with 45 RBIs and a slugging percentage of .502, in 257 at bats.\n\nYeager made his Major League debut with the Dodgers on August 2, 1972, and went on to play 15 season in the major leagues. He started 34 games that season and batted .274/.374/.406. In the winter before the 1973 season he was named to the Dominican League All Star team. He backed up Joe Ferguson in 1973, and split time with Ferguson for the pennant-winning 1974 club as he hit .266 with 12 home runs. Thereafter, Yeager was the starting catcher for the Dodgers and became an integral part of the Dodgers' success in the 1970s and early 1980s. \n\nIn 1976, he led NL catchers in assists, with 77. In 1977, he came in second in voting for the Gold Glove Award. He led NL catchers in baserunners caught stealing percentage in both 1978 (46.7%) and 1982 (43.1%).\n\nYeager helped the Dodgers to the World Series in 1974, 1977, 1978, and 1981. In the '81 Series against the New York Yankees, he shared the World Series Most Valuable Player award with teammates Pedro Guerrero and Ron Cey. Yeager, who was backing up Mike Scioscia by that time, did not have overwhelming stats for the Series, as he went 4-for-14 (.286), but one of his hits was a double and two were home runs. One of the homers, off Ron Guidry, turned out to be the game-winner in Game 5.\n\nWhile with the Dodgers, Yeager caught Jerry Reuss' no-hitter on June 27, 1980.\n\nYeager injured his knee in 1982 and broke his wrist the next year, which severely limited his playing time.\n\nHe was traded to the Seattle Mariners for Ed Vande Berg following the 1985 season and retired after hitting .208 in 130 at bats in 1986.\n\nLou Brock called Yeager \"the best-throwing catcher in the game.\" His specialty was defense and his command of the game on the field. In one nationally televised game, he made a putout to second base – and the radar gun in place to record pitches caught his throw to second (from a crouch) at 98 mph. He was very good at managing the game from his position and was even more highly regarded for his abilities with young pitchers. In 1974, he had 806 putouts, the most in the National League. This compensated for his overall subpar offense, as illustrated by arguably his best offensive year occurring in 1974 when he batted .266 in fewer than 100 games. Despite this reputation, Yeager was still somewhat of a clutch hitter as he had an average of .321 when hitting with the bases loaded during his career, as well as hitting 4 home runs in 21 World Series games. He also had success hitting off pitcher Ken Forsch. While never hitting more than two home runs off any other pitcher, he managed to hit 5 against Forsch in his career.\n\nWith the Dodgers, whenever knuckleballer Charlie Hough pitched, Yeager would use a special enlarged catcher's mitt and would hold it in a cupped style, palm facing upward, instead of the normal upright \"target\" position.\n\nIn 1976, Yeager was injured when teammate Bill Russell's bat shattered as he hit a ground ball and a large, jagged piece from the heavy end of the bat slammed into the throat of Yeager, who was in the on-deck circle. The wood hit him in the neck and pierced his esophagus, necessitating surgery. After the incident, at Yeager's urging Dodger trainer Bill Buhler invented and patented a device that hangs from the catcher's mask to protect the throat. It was soon worn by most catchers around the Majors and other leagues.\n\nSteve Yeager coached the Dodgers catchers from 2012–2018. \n\nIn 1999, Yeager was the hitting coach for the Dodgers' Single-A San Bernardino Stampede, which won the California League championship. He managed the Long Beach Breakers in the independent (now-defunct) Western Baseball League in 2001. The team won the league championship in their inaugural season that year, beating the Chico Heat 3 games to 2. He was the Jacksonville Suns hitting coach in 2004, when the team won the championship, and in 2005-06 he was the hitting instructor/coach for the Dodgers AAA farm club, the Las Vegas 51s. He later joined the A Dodgers affiliate Inland Empire 66'ers and became the hitting coach in 2007.\n\nYeager was instrumental in the conversion of Russell Martin from third base to behind the plate.\n\nIn 2007, he became the manager for the Long Beach Armada of the independent Golden Baseball League.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953574", "title": "National Library of Iran", "text": "National Library of Iran\n\nThe National Library of Iran (NLI) is located in Tehran, Iran, with several branches scattered throughout the city.\n\nPrior to the library's official inauguration in 1937, other libraries existed that performed the same function informally. The first prototype of a national library in Iran was the Library of Dar al-Funun College, established in 1851. In 1899, another library called the \"Nation's Library\" was inaugurated in Tehran.\n\nThe present National Library of Iran incorporates many different collections from older libraries, including many rare and valuable manuscripts. The central main branch is located in north central Tehran.\n\nThe new building is specially designed to combine different faculties of the library in a single platform. The library by itself is over 90,000 m, the largest library campus in the Middle East. It encompasses 5 separate halls, each hall dedicated to a different faculty, including Humanities, Social Sciences, Law, Science and Science Education, and Health Studies.\n\nIt took over the publishing of the \"Iranian National Bibliography\" (\"Ketab Shenasi Melli Iran\"), with annual publications between 1962 and 1966, a break for two years, and then monthly and quartly since 1969.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953577", "title": "Andrew Rutherfurd, Lord Rutherfurd", "text": "Andrew Rutherfurd, Lord Rutherfurd\n\nThe Right Hon. Andrew Rutherfurd, Lord Rutherfurd, (born Andrew Greenfield; 21 June 1791–13 December 1854) was a Scottish advocate, judge and politician.\n\nRutherfurd was born at Bristo Port (near Greyfriars Kirkyard) in Edinburgh on 21 June 1791 to Janet Rutherfurd and Reverend William Greenfield. In 1799 the family changed their name to Rutherfurd, his mother's maiden name, after his father was disgraced in a sex scandal.\n\nHe was educated at the High School in Edinburgh then studied law at the University of Edinburgh. He became an advocate in 1812.\n\nIn the 1830s he is listed as an advocate living at 9, St Colme Street, on the Moray Estate in Edinburgh's west end. His house was remodelled by William Notman in 1835, whilst working in the offices of William Henry Playfair.\n\nHe was appointed Solicitor General for Scotland from 1837, becoming Lord Advocate in 1839 and Member of Parliament for Leith burghs in the same year. He resigned office in September 1841 on William Peel's accession to power. He was appointed Rector of the University of Glasgow in 1844.\n\nHe played an active part in parliamentary proceedings relating to Scotland, and proposed the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846. He was reappointed Lord Advocate in 1846, and was responsible for legislation amending the law of entail in Scotland in 1848. He served on the Royal Commission on the British Museum (1847–49).\n\nOn 2 January 1849 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, his proposer being John Russell.\n\nHe was appointed a Senator of the College of Justice, as Lord Rutherfurd and a Privy Counsellor in May 1851. From 1851 to 1854 he was a Lord of Session.\n\nHe died at his home, at 9, St Colme Street, on 13 December 1854. He is buried on Lord's Row, against the western wall of Dean Cemetery, in western Edinburgh, beneath a red granite pyramid designed by William Henry Playfair and built by Stewart McGlashan. The monument is inscribed: Uxori desideratissimae contra votum superstes moerens posuit Andreas Rutherfurd, et sibi, MDCCCLII. (\"Andrew Rutherfurd, surviving against his will, placed this tomb in mourning to his most beloved wife, and to himself, 1852\".)\n\nHe married Sophia Frances Stewart in 1822. She died in 1852 and is buried with him. They had no children.\n\nHis sister married John Gordon FRSE (1786-1818) father of John Thomson Gordon FRSE (1813-1865)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953581", "title": "Redundancy (engineering)", "text": "Redundancy (engineering)\n\nIn engineering, redundancy is the duplication of critical components or functions of a system with the intention of increasing reliability of the system, usually in the form of a backup or fail-safe, or to improve actual system performance, such as in the case of GNSS receivers, or multi-threaded computer processing.\n\nIn many safety-critical systems, such as fly-by-wire and hydraulic systems in aircraft, some parts of the control system may be triplicated, which is formally termed triple modular redundancy (TMR). An error in one component may then be out-voted by the other two. In a triply redundant system, the system has three sub components, all three of which must fail before the system fails. Since each one rarely fails, and the sub components are expected to fail independently, the probability of all three failing is calculated to be extraordinarily small; often outweighed by other risk factors, such as human error. Redundancy may also be known by the terms \"majority voting systems\" or \"voting logic\".\n\nRedundancy sometimes produces less, instead of greater reliability it creates a more complex system which is prone to various issues, it may lead to human neglect of duty, and may lead to higher production demands which by overstressing the system may make it less safe.\n\nIn computer science, there are four major forms of redundancy, these are:\n\nA modified form of software redundancy, applied to hardware may be:\n\nStructures are usually designed with redundant parts as well, ensuring that if one part fails, the entire structure will not collapse. A structure without redundancy is called fracture-critical, meaning that a single broken component can cause the collapse of the entire structure. Bridges that failed due to lack of redundancy include the Silver Bridge and the Interstate 5 bridge over the Skagit River.\n\nParallel and combined systems demonstrate different level of redundancy. The models are subject of studies in reliability and safety engineering.\n\nThe two functions of redundancy are passive redundancy and active redundancy. Both functions prevent performance decline from exceeding specification limits without human intervention using extra capacity.\n\nPassive redundancy uses excess capacity to reduce the impact of component failures. One common form of passive redundancy is the extra strength of cabling and struts used in bridges. This extra strength allows some structural components to fail without bridge collapse. The extra strength used in the design is called the margin of safety.\n\nEyes and ears provide working examples of passive redundancy. Vision loss in one eye does not cause blindness but depth perception is impaired. Hearing loss in one ear does not cause deafness but directionality is lost. Performance decline is commonly associated with passive redundancy when a limited number of failures occur.\n\nActive redundancy eliminates performance declines by monitoring the performance of individual devices, and this monitoring is used in voting logic. The voting logic is linked to switching that automatically reconfigures the components. Error detection and correction and the Global Positioning System (GPS) are two examples of active redundancy.\n\nElectrical power distribution provides an example of active redundancy. Several power lines connect each generation facility with customers. Each power line includes monitors that detect overload. Each power line also includes circuit breakers. The combination of power lines provides excess capacity. Circuit breakers disconnect a power line when monitors detect an overload. Power is redistributed across the remaining lines.\n\nCharles Perrow, author of \"Normal Accidents\", has said that sometimes redundancies backfire and produce less, not more reliability. This may happen in three ways: First, redundant safety devices result in a more complex system, more prone to errors and accidents. Second, redundancy may lead to shirking of responsibility among workers. Third, redundancy may lead to increased production pressures, resulting in a system that operates at higher speeds, but less safely.\n\nVoting logic uses performance monitoring to determine how to reconfigure individual components so that operation continues without violating specification limitations of the overall system. Voting logic often involves computers, but systems composed of items other than computers may be reconfigured using voting logic. Circuit breakers are an example of a form of non-computer voting logic.\n\nElectrical power systems use power scheduling to reconfigure active redundancy. Computing systems adjust the production output of each generating facility when other generating facilities are suddenly lost. This prevents blackout conditions during major events such as an earthquake.\n\nThe simplest voting logic in computing systems involves two components: primary and alternate. They both run similar software, but the output from the alternate remains inactive during normal operation. The primary monitors itself and periodically sends an activity message to the alternate as long as everything is OK. All outputs from the primary stop, including the activity message, when the primary detects a fault. The alternate activates its output and takes over from the primary after a brief delay when the activity message ceases. Errors in voting logic can cause both outputs to be active or inactive at the same time, or cause outputs to flutter on and off.\n\nA more reliable form of voting logic involves an odd number of three devices or more. All perform identical functions and the outputs are compared by the voting logic. The voting logic establishes a majority when there is a disagreement, and the majority will act to deactivate the output from other device(s) that disagree. A single fault will not interrupt normal operation. This technique is used with avionics systems, such as those responsible for operation of the Space Shuttle.\n\nEach duplicate component added to the system decreases the probability of system failure according to the formula:-\n\nwhere:\n\nThis formula assumes independence of failure events. That means that the probability of a component B failing given that a component A has already failed is the same as that of B failing when A has not failed. There are situations where this is unreasonable, such as using two power supplies connected to the same socket in such a way that if one power supply failed, the other would too.\n\nIt also assumes that only one component is needed to keep the system running.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953582", "title": "Redundancy (information theory)", "text": "Redundancy (information theory)\n\nIn Information theory, redundancy measures the fractional difference between the entropy of an ensemble , and its maximum possible value formula_1. Informally, it is the amount of wasted \"space\" used to transmit certain data. Data compression is a way to reduce or eliminate unwanted redundancy, while checksums are a way of adding desired redundancy for purposes of error detection when communicating over a noisy channel of limited capacity.\n\nIn describing the redundancy of raw data, the rate of a source of information is the average entropy per symbol. For memoryless sources, this is merely the entropy of each symbol, while, in the most general case of a stochastic process, it is\n\nthe limit, as \"n\" goes to infinity, of the joint entropy of the first \"n\" symbols divided by \"n\". It is common in information theory to speak of the \"rate\" or \"entropy\" of a language. This is appropriate, for example, when the source of information is English prose. The rate of a memoryless source is simply formula_3, since by definition there is no interdependence of the successive messages of a memoryless source.\n\nThe absolute rate of a language or source is simply\n\nthe logarithm of the cardinality of the message space, or alphabet. (This formula is sometimes called the Hartley function.) This is the maximum possible rate of information that can be transmitted with that alphabet. (The logarithm should be taken to a base appropriate for the unit of measurement in use.) The absolute rate is equal to the actual rate if the source is memoryless and has a uniform distribution.\n\nThe absolute redundancy can then be defined as\n\nthe difference between the absolute rate and the rate.\n\nThe quantity formula_6 is called the relative redundancy and gives the maximum possible data compression ratio, when expressed as the percentage by which a file size can be decreased. (When expressed as a ratio of original file size to compressed file size, the quantity formula_7 gives the maximum compression ratio that can be achieved.) Complementary to the concept of relative redundancy is efficiency, defined as formula_8 so that formula_9. A memoryless source with a uniform distribution has zero redundancy (and thus 100% efficiency), and cannot be compressed.\n\nA measure of \"redundancy\" between two variables is the mutual information or a normalized variant. A measure of redundancy among many variables is given by the total correlation. \n\nRedundancy of compressed data refers to the difference between the expected compressed data length of formula_10 messages formula_11 (or expected data rate formula_12) and the entropy formula_13 (or entropy rate formula_14). (Here we assume the data is ergodic and stationary, e.g., a memoryless source.) Although the rate difference formula_15 can be arbitrarily small as formula_16 increased, the actual difference formula_17, cannot, although it can be theoretically upper-bounded by 1 in the case of finite-entropy memoryless sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953584", "title": "Moe Koffman", "text": "Moe Koffman\n\nMorris \"Moe\" Koffman, OC (28 December 1928 – 28 March 2001) was a Canadian jazz saxophonist and flautist, as well as composer and arranger. During a career spanning from the 1950s to the 2000s, Koffman was one of Canada's most prolific musicians, working variously in clubs and sessions and releasing 30 albums. With his 1957 record \"Cool and Hot Sax\" on the New York-based Jubilee label, Koffman became one of the first Canadian jazz musicians to record a full-length album. Koffman was also a long-time member of Rob McConnell's Boss Brass.\n\nKoffman was born in Toronto to Jewish immigrants from Poland. His parents operated a variety store. At the age of nine he began his musical studies in his native city, studying violin. He studied with Gordon Delamont, and later attended the Toronto Conservatory of Music, now the Royal Conservatory of Music of Toronto, where he was a student of Samuel Dolin.\n\nKoffman dropped out of school when he found work performing in dance bands. In 1950, he moved to the United States, where he played with big bands including those of Sonny Dunham and Jimmy Dorsey. In 1955, he returned to Toronto where he formed a quartet and later a quintet. He recorded \"Swinging Shepherd Blues\" in 1957 which helped establish his reputation as a flautist. \"Swinging Shepherd Blues\" was a hit in the United States, reaching #23 on the Billboard pop chart.\n\nKoffman was inspired by Rahsaan Roland Kirk to play multiple instruments at once; and had a modified set of straps to hold a tenor and an alto saxophone so that he could put forward incredible chords and improvise at the same time. One of the more famous session musicians in Toronto, he appeared in countless commercials, background music, and film and TV soundtracks. Most work on bass flute in Canadian soundtracks from 1950 to 1990 in Toronto sessions was done by Koffman on this rare instrument. Koffman was also an exponent of circular breathing techniques for his large volumes of sound, and joined fellow Canadian Maynard Ferguson and new age multi-instrumentalist musician Ron Allen in this talent.\n\nDuring the 1970s, Koffman recorded several albums with arrangements of works by classical composers including Bach, Mozart and Vivaldi. The albums were released by GRT Canada and later by Universal. He also was a guest performer with a number of symphony orchestras across Canada.\n\nHe performed with Dizzy Gillespie and Peter Appleyard during the 1980s, as well as continuing to front the Moe Koffman Quintet. He often performed with Rob McConnell's Boss Brass. From 1956 to 1990, Koffman booked performers for George's Spaghetti House in Toronto, where he performed weekly. His compositions \"Curried Soul\" and \"Koff Drops\" have been used as the opening and closing themes respectively for the CBC radio show \"As It Happens\" since 1972.\n\nHe was appointed to the Order of Canada in 1993 and inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1997.\n\nKoffman was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in 2000, and died of cancer in Orangeville, Ontario in 2001 at the age of 72. In 2002, Moe Koffman was a MasterWorks honouree by the Audio-Visual Preservation Trust of Canada.\n\nSome of Koffman's music for Duke Street Records was unreleased at the time of his death. \"Music for the Night\" was released and re-issued in 2007, and \"Devil's Brew\" was re-issued in 2009.\n\nSingles:\n\nLPs:\n\nWith the Ron Collier Orchestra featuring Duke Ellington\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953585", "title": "Redundancy (linguistics)", "text": "Redundancy (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, redundancy refers to information that is expressed more than once.\n\nExamples of redundancies include multiple agreement features in morphology, multiple features distinguishing phonemes in phonology, or the use of multiple words to express a single idea in rhetoric.\n\nRedundancy may occur at any level of grammar. Because of agreement – a requirement in many languages that the form of different words in a phrase or clause correspond with one another – the same semantic information may be expressed several times. In the Spanish phrase \"los árboles verdes\" (\"the green trees\"), for example, the article \"los\", the noun \"árboles\", and the adjective \"verdes\" are all inflected to show that the phrase is plural. An English example would be: \"that man is a soldier\" versus \"those men are soldiers.\"\n\nIn phonology, a minimal pair is a pair of words or phrases that differs by only one phoneme, the smallest distinctive unit of the sound system. Even so, phonemes may differ on several phonetic features. For example, the English phonemes and in the words \"pin\" and \"bin\" feature different voicing, aspiration, and muscular tension. Any one of these features is sufficient to differentiate from in English.\n\nGenerative grammar uses such redundancy to simplify the form of grammatical description. Any feature that can be predicted on the basis of other features (such as aspiration on the basis of voicing) need not be indicated in the grammatical rule. Features that are not redundant and therefore must be indicated by rule are called distinctive features.\n\nAs with agreement in morphology, phonologically conditioned alternation, such as coarticulation and assimilation add redundancy on the phonological level. The redundancy of phonological rules may clarify some vagueness in spoken communication. According to psychologist Steven Pinker, \"In the comprehension of speech, the redundancy conferred by phonological rules can compensate for some of the ambiguity of the sound wave. For example, a speaker may know that \"thisrip\" must be \"this rip\" and not \"the srip\" because in English the initial consonant cluster \"sr\" is illegal.\"\n\nOften, redundancies occur in speech unintentionally, but redundant phrases can also be deliberately constructed for emphasis, to reduce the chance that a phrase will be misinterpreted. In rhetoric, the term \"redundancy\" tends to have a negative connotation and may be perceived as improper because of its use of duplicative or unnecessary wording (and some people expand the definition to include self-contradictory wording, similar to double negation); however, it remains a linguistically valid way of placing emphasis on some expressed idea. Through the use of repetition of certain concepts, redundancy increases the odds of predictability of a message's meaning and understanding to others.\n\nRedundancy typically takes the form of tautology: phrases that repeat a meaning with different though semantically similar words. Common examples are: \"a variety of different items\", \"an added bonus\", \"to over-exaggerate\", \"and etc.\", \"end result\", \"free gift\", \"future plans\", \"unconfirmed rumor\", \"to kill or murder someone to death\", \"past history\", \"safe haven\", \"potential hazard\", \"completely surrounded\", \"false pretense\", and so on. There is also the self-referential \"joke organization\" called \"The Redundancy Society of Redundancy\", also called \"Society of Redundancy Society\".\n\nA subset of tautology is RAS syndrome in which one of the words represented by an acronym is then repeated outside the acronym: \"ATM machine\", \"HIV virus\", \"PIN number\", \"RIP in peace\" and \"RAID array\". These phases expand to \"automated teller machine machine\", \"human immunodeficiency virus virus\", \"personal identification number number\", \"rest in peace in peace\" and \"redundant array of independent disks array\", respectively. \"RAS syndrome\" is itself a tongue-in-cheek example of the RAS syndrome in action; it expands to \"Redundant Acronym Syndrome syndrome\". Another common redundancy is the phrase \"i ily you\", an 'msn speak' phrase which literally means \"i i love you you\".\n\nA more general classification of redundancy is pleonasm, which can be any unnecessary words (or even word parts). Subsuming both rhetorical tautology and RAS syndrome, it also includes dialectal usage of technically unnecessary parts, as in \"off of\" vs. \"off\". Pleonasm can also take the form of purely semantic redundancies that are a part of the de facto standard usage in a language and \"transparent\" to the user (e.g., the French question \"Qu'est-ce que c'est?\" meaning \"What's that?\" or \"What is it?\", which translates very literally as \"What is it that it is?\"). The term pleonasm is most often, however, employed as synonymous with tautology.\n\nWriting guides, especially for technical writing, usually advise to avoid redundancy, \"especially the use of two expressions that mean the same thing. Such repetition works against readability and conciseness.\" Others make a distinction between redundancy and repetition: \"Repetition, if used well, can be a good tool to use in your writing. It can add emphasis to what you are trying to say and strengthen a point. There are many types of useful repetition. Redundancy, on the other hand, cannot be a good thing. Redundancy happens when the repetition of a word or idea does not add anything to the previous usage; it just restates what has already been said, takes up space, and gets in the way without adding meaning.\" Computer scientist Donald E. Knuth, author of highly acclaimed textbooks, recommends \"to state things twice, in complementary ways, especially when giving a definition. This reinforces the reader’s understanding.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1953605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953605", "title": "Gowrie, Australian Capital Territory", "text": "Gowrie, Australian Capital Territory\n\nGowrie is a suburb of Canberra, Australia, located in the northern end of the Tuggeranong Valley. Tuggeranong suburbs are the southernmost of Australia's capital city. Gowrie is named after Brigadier-General Alexander Gore Arkwright Hore-Ruthven, 1st Earl of Gowrie (1872–1955), Governor-General of Australia from 1936–1944.\n\nGowrie's streets are all named after members of the Australian Defence Force who won decorations, including the Victoria Cross. Gowrie is the former site of the Athllon Homestead.\n\nOn , Gowrie had a population of 3,056 people. The median age of people in Gowrie was 38 years, compared to a median age of 35 for Canberra. Unemployment in Gowrie was 0.6% lower than the Canberra average (2011). The median individual income for Gowrie in 2011 was $1,003, almost equal with the ACT median of $998, while the median household income was $2,228. In 2011, the median monthly housing loan repayment in Gowrie was $2,167.\n\nThe residents of Gowrie are predominantly Australian born, with 77.1% being born in Australia. The three main countries of birth for those born overseas were England, 3.7%, Philippines, 1.2%, India, 1.2%, New Zealand, 1.1%, Italy and 1.0%. The most popular religious affiliations in descending order are no religion, Catholic, Anglican and Presbyterian and reformed.\n\nGowrie Primary School, located on Jeffries Street, opened in 1983. The school's design has a rural theme, and each of the buildings are named after properties in the Tuggeranong Valley. The Catholic Holy Family Parish Primary School and the Holy Family Church, both part of the South Tuggeranong Corpus Christi Parish, are located on Bugden Avenue. Tuggeranong Presbyterian Church meets at Gowrie Primary School in Jeffries Street.\n\nThe Gowrie local shopping centre is located on Jeffries Street. The centre includes a supermarket, pharmacy, hairdresser and the Common Grounds cafe. Jeffries Street is also the site of a child care centre and the Gowrie Preschool. The Erindale Scout Hall is in Finlay Place. The Gowrie District Playing fields also are located in the suburb.\n\nGowrie is serviced by several ACTION bus routes. Routes 76 and 77 connect Gowrie to Tuggeranong Town Centre and Erindale Centre. Route R5 travels along Ashley Drive with several bus stops along it.\n\nGowrie is located within the federal electorate of Bean, which is represented by David Smith in the House of Representatives. In the ACT Legislative Assembly, Gowrie is part of the electorate of Brindabella, which elects five members on the basis of proportional representation, currently three Liberal and two Labor. Polling place statistics are shown to the right for the \"Gowrie\" polling place at Gowrie Primary School in the 2019 federal and 2016 ACT elections.\n\nThe west of Gowrie is built on Deakin Volcanics green-grey and purple rhyodacite. In the east, Gowrie is built on green-grey, purple and cream rhyolite. These rocks are 414 million years old from the Silurian period.\n"}
{"id": "1953606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953606", "title": "Airport Link, Sydney", "text": "Airport Link, Sydney\n\nThe Airport Link (also known as the Airport Line or New Southern Railway) is a railway line in Australia connecting Sydney Airport to the Central Business District and the south-western suburbs of Sydney. With the exception of Wolli Creek, the Airport Line stations are operated by a private company, the Airport Link Company, as part of a public private partnership. The contract allows the company to charge a surcharge on top of the normal fare. The line is served by Sydney Trains T8 Airport & South line services.\n\nThe Airport Link includes a four kilometre rock tunnel and a six kilometre soft ground tunnel.\n\nFor most of its length, the line travels underground. It runs south from platform 23 at Central station across a viaduct to the tunnel portal beneath Prince Alfred Park near Chalmers Street. The tunnel roughly follows George Street underneath the suburbs of Redfern and Waterloo. At Green Square station, beneath the intersection of Botany Road, Bourke Road and O'Riordan Street, the line continues beneath Bourke Road to Mascot station, a block south of Gardeners Road.\n\nFrom Mascot, the line roughly follows O'Riordan Street before turning sharply to the west once underneath Sydney Airport. The line runs westward under the Domestic and International terminals before continuing north-west underneath the Cooks River to reach the surface at Wolli Creek where it joins the East Hills line. The line is two tracks for its entire length.\n\nThe two new stations which were built for the airport's International and Domestic Terminals, feature larger lifts and wider ticket barriers to cater for passengers with baggage. Three new suburban stations were built – one each for the residential development areas of Mascot and Green Square, and an interchange station with the Illawarra line at Wolli Creek.\n\nIn 1990, the State Government called for Expressions of Interest to build a line to the airport. In July 1994, the Government announced it had entered a public private partnership with Transfield Services and Bouygues to build the line. Under the deal, a private company, Airport Link Company, would cover the costs of building four of the stations. In return it would operate those stations for 30 years and have the right to impose a surcharge on fares for their use. The company's involvement was predicated on passenger estimates and train reliability guarantees that later proved to be optimistic. The State Government would fund (and own) the railway itself and Wolli Creek station.\n\nConstruction began on 12 February 1995 with a view to improving facilities for air travellers ahead of the 2000 Summer Olympics. At the time, the main public transport link between the city and its airport were two Sydney Buses express routes, the 300 to Circular Quay and 350 to Kings Cross branded as \"Airport Express\".\n\nA Tunnel boring machine was used for the construction. Manufactured by the German firm, Herrenknecht, it arrived in Australia in October 1996. While the use of a Tunnel boring machine relieved the need for large numbers of workers at increased pressure, a caisson system is formed at the cutting head. Workers entering this space for inspection, maintenance and repair had to be trained. Medical direction was utilised for planning compression and decompression, assessment of fitness to dive, training of workers and lock operators, health monitoring of workers and treatment of related injuries. This project was the first time oxygen decompression tables were used for caisson work in Australia. The incidence of decompression illness was 1 case in every 286 pressurisations (0.35%) and this problem affected 5.9% of the workers.\n\nThe line opened on 21 May 2000, three months ahead of the Olympic Games, after the State Government had spent around on the project and the Airport Link Company over . In conjunction with the construction of the new line, the section of the East Hills Line between Wolli Creek Junction and Kingsgrove was quadruplified. Once this was opened, the running patterns of the trains on the lines changed. The flying junctions interchange near Central station was altered to give the Airport line its own platforms (21 & 23) at Central. Local (all stations) trains generally were timetabled to run from East Hills via the airport, peak hour express trains from Campbelltown run along the original route via Sydenham, taking the express tracks between Kingsgrove and Wolli Creek Junction.\n\nFrom the beginning, a major criticism of the line was that it is not served by dedicated rolling stock, which contrasts with the other major Australian city with an airport rail link: Brisbane. The Brisbane AirTrain line is primarily serviced by Queensland Rail's IMU and NGR fleets, both of which make provision for luggage carrying passengers, as well as offering additional passenger comforts such as high backed seats, free Wi-Fi and toilets. Furthermore, the Brisbane line terminates at the airport, bypassing most suburban stations, meaning customers travelling on the AirTrain are not mixed with suburban commuters. By contrast, customers entering the Sydney Airport Line at Domestic and International must compete for space with commuters from the East Hills line, and find that the trains have no special provision for their luggage. Services are provided by Sydney Trains's K, C, M, A and B set fleets.\n\nDespite the cancellation of the rival Airport Express bus service, taxi surcharges and expensive airport parking, the Airport Link consistently failed to meet patronage targets. Less than a year after the line opened, the State Rail Authority stated that \"patronage has been lower than expected to date\", but they remained optimistic, believing \"that as airport users become more familiar with this facility and the ingrained habits of many years gradually alter, patronage will continue to increase.\" In 2000, the Airport Link Company went into receivership, exposing the government to costs of around . It was put up for sale in early 2006. State Rail blamed \"lower than expected patronage\" and stated it was working with the company to increase it.\n\nIn October 2005, the Government and the company signed a revised agreement on revenue and patronage, settling the latter's claims against the former. The Government paid to the company, with another due as CityRail earns revenue from Airport Line business.\n\nTogether with the Cross City Tunnel, the Airport Link served to dampen government and business enthusiasm for further public private partnerships in transport in New South Wales.\n\nAs the stations commenced operation on 21 May 2000, the ownership of the four stations reverts to the state government on 21 May 2030.\n\nThe stations were purchased by Westpac in 2006. In 2009 the business made a profit of which increased to in 2010.\n\nIn March 2011, it was announced that the NSW Government would cover the cost of the station access fee at Green Square and Mascot stations, meaning that passengers no longer need to pay a surcharge to access these stations. To compensate Airport Link Company, the Government pays the company a \"shadow\" station usage fee at a fixed contracted rate of approximately per entry and exit of these stations. A fee remains in place for Domestic and International stations. Patronage on the link had been growing at 20% per year, but between March and June 2011 patronage at Green Square and Mascot increased by 70 percent as a result of the reduced fares.\n\nAlthough often perceived as all revenue going to the Airport Link Company, under the revenue sharing agreement, 85 percent of revenues raised by the access fee since August 2014 goes to the NSW Government. From 2015 to 2018, the NSW Government received $197.6 million in total net revenue from the station access fee.\n\nBy 2018, the suburban stations were experiencing overcrowding at peak times due to significant increases in patronage.\n"}
{"id": "1953621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953621", "title": "District of Delyn", "text": "District of Delyn\n\nDelyn is an area in north Wales. From 1974 to 1996 it was a district of Clwyd, but is now included in the county of Flintshire. Delyn is twinned with Menden, Germany.\n\nThe Borough of Delyn was formed in 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972 by the merger of Flint Municipal Borough with the urban districts of Holywell and Mold, and Holywell Rural District.\n\nThe name \"Delyn\" was formed by combining the names of the area's principal rivers: the Dee and the Alyn. The neighbouring district was originally named Alyn-Dee for the same reason. \"Y Delyn\" is also Welsh for \"The Harp\", a fact reflected in the borough's coat of arms.\n"}
{"id": "1953625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953625", "title": "Lycoming O-360", "text": "Lycoming O-360\n\nThe Lycoming O-360 is a family of four-cylinder, direct-drive, horizontally opposed, air-cooled, piston aircraft engines. Engines in the O-360 series produce between 145 and 225 horsepower (109 to 168 kW), with the basic O-360 producing 180 horsepower.\n\nThe engine family has been installed in thousands of aircraft, including the Cessna 172, Piper Cherokee/Archer, Grumman Tiger, and many home-built types. It has a factory rated time between overhaul (TBO) of 2000 hours or twelve years. O-360 family engines are also widely used in airboats, most notably in the Hurricane Aircats used by the US Army during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe first O-360 certified was the A1A model, certified on 20 July 1955 to United States CAR 13 effective March 5, 1952 as amended by 13-1 and 13-2. The Lycoming IO-390 is an O-360 which has had its cylinder bore increased by , developing .\n\nThe O-360 family of engines comprises 167 different models with 12 different prefixes. All have a displacement and bore and stroke.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953627", "title": "IWon", "text": "IWon\n\niWon.com was a free casual game site and web portal that offered the chance to win cash for charities through activities such as playing online games. iWon started as a web portal, similar to Yahoo!, that entered its users into daily, weekly, and monthly cash prize drawings. Users earned entry drawings based on a point system for using the website. Activities that earned points included clicking on links, using the search features and participating in its online games. The site was shut down on January 6, 2016.\n\nAmong major early backers of iWon was Viacom, parent of CBS, UPN and MTV. It was last owned by Barry Diller's IAC.\n\nIn January 2011, in an attempt to reach out to users through Facebook, iWon launched an interactive game portal similar to the one found on their website, which offered similar games and features, including a daily prize draw during its opening months.\n\niWon E-mail service was a feature that was first available during the launch of the iWon platform in 1999.\n\nOn October 2, 2017, iWon shut down their free e-mail service, with their final message simply reading: \"As of October 2, 2017, iWon Email will be shut down. If you are an iWon Email account holder, please log in and save all information you wish to save. After October 2, 2017, you will not be able to access your emails. Please visit our support page to learn how to save and download your emails. Thank you for your years of loyalty using iWon Email!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1953628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953628", "title": "Ryōgen", "text": "Ryōgen\n\nHe is considered a restorer of the Tendai school of Mahayana Buddhism, and credited for reviving Enryaku-ji. His supposed role as a precursor of the \"sōhei\" or \"warrior monks\" is questionable and seems to be a later invention (see Adolphson 2007).\n\nRyōgen was born in the Omi Province in 912, and he began his practice at Mount Hiei in 923, becoming chief abbot in 966.\n\nOver the course of the 10th century, there had been a number of disputes between Enryaku-ji and the other temples and shrines of the Kyoto area, many of which were resolved by force. In 970, Ryōgen formed a small army to defend Enryaku-ji and to serve its interests in these disputes. Records are not fully clear on whether this army consisted of hired mercenaries, or, as would be the case later, trained monks. Most likely, this first temple standing army was a mercenary group, separate from the monks, since Ryōgen forbade monks from carrying weapons.\n\nIn addition to the prohibition on carrying weapons, Ryōgen's monks were subject to a list of 26 articles released by Ryōgen in 970; they were forbidden from covering their faces, inflicting corporal punishment, violently interrupting prayer services, or leaving Mount Hiei during their twelve-year training.\n\nIn 981 Ryōgen was appointed general administrator, the most important rank in priesthood.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953629", "title": "Duncan McNeill, 1st Baron Colonsay", "text": "Duncan McNeill, 1st Baron Colonsay\n\nDuncan McNeill, 1st Baron Colonsay FRSE (20 August 1793 – 31 January 1874) was a Scottish advocate, judge and Tory politician. He was Lord Justice General and Lord President of the Court of Session between 1852 and 1867.\n\nHis younger brother was the physician and diplomat Sir John McNeill.\n\nMcNeill was born on the island of Oronsay in the Inner Hebrides, the son of John McNeill (1767–1846), laird of Colonsay and Oronsay, and his wife Hester (née McNeill). Educated at St Andrew's University where he graduated MA in 1809..\n\nHe served his apprenticeship in Edinburgh under Michael Linning WS, based at 6 St James Square. He became a member of the Faculty of Advocates in 1816. He was the presumptive father of philosopher Edmund Montgomery.\n\nHe was Advocate Depute in Edinburgh 1820 to 1824.\n\nMacNeill was appointed Sheriff of Perthshire in 1824. He served under Sir Robert Peel as Solicitor General for Scotland from 1834 to 1835 and again from 1841 to 1842 and as Lord Advocate from 1842 to 1846. From 1843 to 1851 he sat as Member of Parliament for Argyllshire. In 1851 he was appointed a Senator of the College of Justice and an Ordinary Lord of Session as Lord Colonsay and Oronsay. He was Lord Justice General and Lord President of the Court of Session from 1852 to 1867, and was raised to the peerage as Baron Colonsay, of Colonsay and Oronsay in the County of Argyll, on 26 February 1867.\n\nIn 1829 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh his proposer being John Shank More.\n\nIn later life Edinburgh University awarded him an honorary doctorate (LLD).\n\nMcNeill was unmarried, but lived in a very large Georgian townhouse: 73 Great King Street in Edinburgh's Second New Town.\n\nHe was a member of the Highland Society of Edinburgh (1833).\n\nLord Colonsay died at Pau, France, on 31 January 1874, aged 80, when the title became extinct.\n\nHe was interred at Warriston Cemetery in Edinburgh, south of the upper east-west path towards the East Gate. His bronze coat of arms has been stolen from the monument.\n"}
{"id": "1953647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953647", "title": "Confession of judgment", "text": "Confession of judgment\n\nConfession of judgment is a legal term that refers to a type of contract (or a clause with such a provision) in which a party agrees to let the other party enter a judgment against him or her. Such contracts are highly controversial and may be invalidated as a violation of due process by courts, since the obligor is essentially contracting away his right to raise any legitimate defenses.\n\nConfessions of judgment are permitted in many states. New Jersey and Pennsylvania permit them, among others. Some states, including Michigan, require they be specially labelled or have other procedural requirements. However, according to testimony before an Alaska State Legislature committee, \"Confession of Judgment is illegal in Alaska, it's illegal in Pennsylvania in consumer transactions, but not in commercial transactions.\" A Law Review article distinguishes three groups of state laws, one group comprising seventeen states that make void any agreement to confess judgment entered into before commencement of a suit.\n\nA typical confession of judgment reads, \"The undersigned irrevocably authorizes any attorney to appear in any court of competent jurisdiction and confess a judgment without process in favor of the creditor for such amount as may then appear unpaid hereon, and to consent to immediate execution upon such judgment.\"\n\nSuch clauses should be distinguished from liquidated damages clauses, which do not result in binding judgments against the obligor.\n\nA confession of judgment may also be called a cognovit note.\n\nIn the example: \"The undersigned irrevocably authorizes any attorney to appear in any court of competent jurisdiction and confess a judgment without process in favor of the creditor for such amount as may then appear unpaid hereon, and to consent to immediate execution upon such judgment.\", there is an unlimited risk if the amounts, such as \"amount as may then appear unpaid\", are not exactly defined or capped in the contract, as collection, processing, contract or administrative fees can be set to any arbitrary amount.\n\nAdditionally, no conditions are set for \"authorization\" such as a breach of terms, a late payment or a default in payment, and collection can occur without notice. The first the \"undersigned\" will know anything is awry is that assets have already been seized, cash funds already withdrawn or bank accounts sequestered.\n\nThis may not be legal in many states, but if a judgement is passed in a state where it is legal, then the judgement can be applied in any US state or country that honor US court judgements such as Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Confession of Judgement waives all legal rights to due process in the court system.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court issued two rulings in 1972 relating to confessions of judgment. It held that:\n\nRelying on \"Overmyer\", the California Supreme Court ruled in 1978 that the confession of judgment procedure, as constituted in that State, was constitutionally invalid, ruling:\n\nIn 1990, the California Court of Appeal for the First District ruled that California courts will not enforce judgments from other states entered on confessions of judgment to the extent that such judgments fail to comply with the strict due process requirements outlined in \"Isbell\".\n\nThe use of the \"cognovit actionem\" began to be restricted in Upper Canada in 1857, with passage of a requirement that such instruments be registered within thirty days at the County Court (a predecessor of the present Ontario Superior Court of Justice). Further provision was made the following year to void any such confession entered into by an insolvent person to either defeat or delay his creditors or to give a fraudulent preference. \"Cognovit actionem\" eventually fell into disuse, and was abolished in 1913 as a result of the reform of the civil procedure rules that year.\n\nThe procedure has also been abolished in British Columbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953661", "title": "Student Christian Movement of Canada", "text": "Student Christian Movement of Canada\n\nThe Student Christian Movement of Canada (SCM Canada) is a youth-led ecumenical network of student collectives based in spirituality, issues of social, economic justice, environmental justice, and building autonomous local communities on campuses across the country. It is part of the World Student Christian Federation. The SCM Canada works with other Christian groups, for example, in 2017 supporting the Week of Prayer for Christian Unity.\n\nIn 1895, leaders from North American and European countries established and united national SCMs within the first international student organization, the World Student Christian Federation.\n\nStarting out as at the McGill YMCA, SCM Canada was founded and incorporated into the WSCF in 1921. It is estimated that nearly five percent of students in English Canada were involved in the group from the time of its inception to 1930.\n\nLike its international counterpart, SCM Canada has been part of the ecumenical movement, the turbulence of the 1960s student movements, the mid-20th century shift in balance of power from liberal to evangelical Christian conservatism, the pressures of maintaining unity across the spectrum of Christianity, and the tension between a theological study focus and a social activism focus.\n\nSince its founding, SCM Canada has taken stands on social issues including support for the ordination of women, opposing internment of Japanese-Canadians during World War II; anti-war activities since the 1960s; and facing controversy for its solidarity with LGBTQ Christians. Members were involved in the Canadian Social Gospel movement, which mobilized for a more just social order in Canada, including accessible health care, education, and social services.\n\nThe movement has undertaken various projects throughout its history. The SCM was involved in socialist work camps in the 1940s and 1950s in which students would work in unionizing factories during the summer and pool their resources in communal houses of prayer. This was modeled after the Worker-Priest movement in France. Between 2000 and 2002, summer solidarity projects explored sustainable living in rural community. The SCM also runs international solidarity exchanges with more militant SCMs in the Philippines and Nicaragua and annual student educational trips they call pilgrimages.\n\nThe pilgrimage model started with a tour of radical labour and faith organizations in southern Ontario and the north-east USA. Today, SCM Canada travels every November to the gates of the US army base at Fort Benning, Georgia, to protest the human rights abuses of the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation (WHINSEC, formerly the School of the Americas).\n\nSCM Canada was investigated by Canadian security services during the Cold War for alleged Communist infiltration because of its positions on economic justice and opposition to nuclear weapons. Some members were linked to the Communist Party of Canada, but the movement denied formal links.\n\nSince the 1990s, SCM Canada has attracted a variety of students, but the network is considerably smaller than in previous decades when mainline Protestant churches were more prominent in Canadian life.\n\nPolitically, SCM tends to hold a number of converging political ideologies and outlooks in its ranks, including anarchist and feminist principles of decentralized organizing, liberal concerns with human rights and equality, and emphasis on praxis in integrating theories of social change, theologies, and leftist social activism. Liberation theology has had a major impact on bridging the movement's political and spiritual direction.\n\nSpiritually, SCM members come not only from traditional supporters, the United Church of Canada and the Anglican Church of Canada but also Roman Catholics, Mennonites, some Evangelicals and some non-Christians. Styles of local worship range from contemplative meditation, to monastic styles, praise music and less tradition creative liturgies and ritual.\n\nSCM Canada used to publish an independent magazine, All Things New, twice a year.\n\nThe local unit is considered the heart of the movement. Activities and styles vary widely, depending on the preferences and capacities of the local unit. The activities of local SCM movements may be political in nature, such as attending protests or running workshops relating to a variety of social justice issues. Specifically, environmental justice, Indigenous rights, and LGBTQ rights are listed on the SCM website. The movement has a longtime tradition of a commitment to pacifism and an anti-war stance. The SCM also advocates for the rights of migrants and refugees.\n\nUnits base their social justice activities within the Christian faith through liberation theology, Bible studies, student-led worship services, and meditation. The national office of the Student Christian Movement offers a variety of social justice themed devotionals and Bible studies available for download. Other events hosted by SCM units are social, including retreats, film festivals, and potluck meals.\n\nLocal unit members and its national board gather annually at a national conference, which explores current social or political issues from a Christian ecumenical perspective, and features the highest decision-making body of the movement, National Council, which operates on consensus decision principles.\n\nSCM Canada used to organize an annual pilgrimage to the gates of the US army base at Fort Benning, Georgia to protest human rights abuses of the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation (WHINSEC, formerly School of the Americas).\n\nThe movement also advocates for LGBTQ people's rights, which began in the mid-1990s with a popular pamphlet, Stop Homophobia in the Churches, which was updated and republished in 2007. In 2006, SCM Canada received a $100,000 US grant from the Liberty Hill Foundation to launch a Queer & Christian Without Contradiction campaign across Canada. In 2009, SCM passed a \"Resolution on Gender Identity and Sexuality\" to replace the 1990 \"Resolution on Sexuality and Homophobia\". This new resolution affirmed the holiness, validity, and equal worth of all sexual orientations, gender identities, and gender expressions. The resolution also condemned relationships and expressions that are exploitative, non-consensual, or oppressive.\n\nIn 2014, SCM along with the Beansprout Collective launched a three-day Festival called Cahoots Festival: Faith, Justice & DIY. Cahoots holds a series of workshops on social justice and faith issues and well as do-it-yourself projects and crafts. As a multi-generational festival, Cahoots remains the only initiative run by SCM Canada with activities specifically oriented towards children.\n\nSCM Canada is a grassroots organization composed of autonomous local unit collectives that associate with each other regionally and across Canada. The Canada-wide body of the movement is associated with regional bodies of the WSCF.\n\nSCM Canada is currently the only student-led affiliate of WSCF in North America, although a North America Regional office was founded in 2007, and SCM-USA is currently being founded by a steering committee, following a regional conference held in San Francisco in January 2009. \n\nThe highest decision-making body in the movement is General Council, which convenes every spring at the movement's General Conference. The location rotates between regions. All decisions are made by consensus of all students present, regardless of seniority or experience, and are facilitated by the elected Co-Chairs to the General Board.\n\nUniversity students run local unit collectives, generally based on some form of consensus decision-making, facilitated by at least one Local Unit Coordinator or Animator (formerly local secretaries), although some groups are completely self-directed. Local units are often allied with campus chaplains, other social activist and/or spiritual/religious groups on campus, and local organizations beyond the academy.\n\nTwice a year, SCM Canada used to publish an independent magazine. Each issue addressed a topic decided upon by the movement and included local unit reports, internal communication and discussions about the movement's direction.\n\nSCM used to publish occasionally a theological journal, Epistle.\n\nAll SCM members who attend General Conference (usually every May) comprise the General Council of SCM Canada. General Council is the highest decision-making body of SCM Canada. The General Council elects and empowers a General Board of Directors to continue the Movement's business throughout the year.\n\nThe Board of Directors of SCM Canada is made up of two Co-Chairs, two regional coordinators (as explained above), and four coordinators who take on the role of various \"Desks.\" These four Desks are the Outreach Coordinator, the Fundraising and Finance Coordinator, the Anti-Oppression Coordinator, and the Communications and Resources Coordinator. \n\nOne or two General Secretaries are hired by the General Board to administer, fundraise, assist in Canada-wide programs, and network local units and board members throughout the year. The General Office is currently in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nSCM Canada is part of the North American Region of the WSCF.\n\nThe WSCF North American Region includes SCM Canada, Jeunesse Etudiante Chrétienne (Québec), the Lutheran Student Movement(USA), the United Methodist Student Movement (USA) and the U.S. Council for Ecumenical Student Christian Ministry. The North America Regional Office is located in New York, New York. The North America Regional Secretary is Luciano Kovacs.\n\nThe Inter-Regional Office of the WSCF is located in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nMembers have included:\n\nAffiliated Organizations\n\nAllied Movements & Organizations\n\nIdeologies & Philosophies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953673", "title": "Formation (American football)", "text": "Formation (American football)\n\nA formation in football refers to the position players line up in before the start of a down. There are both offensive and defensive formations and there are many formations in both categories. Sometimes, formations are referred to as packages.\n\nAt the highest level of play in the NFL and NCAA, the one constant in all formations is the offensive line, consisting of the left and right tackle, left and right guard, and a center. These five positions are often referred to collectively as the \"line\", and have the primary role of blocking. By rule there must be two additional players on the line of scrimmage called ends. These players are eligible receivers and may play near the linemen (tight ends) or farther away (split end or wide receiver). Most teams play additional players near (but still off) the line of scrimmage to act as extra pass receivers.\n\nUp to four players can be behind the offensive line, but one is always designated the quarterback (defined as the player who receives the ball from the center). Upon the snap of the ball, the quarterback becomes the \"ball carrier\". The ball carrier has five options:\n\nThe three other backs can be halfbacks, (who primarily carry the ball), fullbacks, (who primarily block), or they can play near (but not on) the line of scrimmage to act as extra tight ends or wide receivers. A tight end that fills the role as the 4th back is often called an \"H-Back\" and a wide receiver that fills that role is sometimes known as a \"flanker\" or a \"slot\" receiver (depending on where he lines up). Most formations have a \"strong\" side (the side with the tight end, or the side with more players) and a \"weak side\" (the side opposite the tight end, or the side with fewer players).\n\nThe ends, which may be either wide receivers, or tight ends, may catch a passed ball or receive a handoff.\n\nDescriptions and diagrams to display offensive formations typically use the following symbols:\n\nThe offense is required to set up a formation before a play, subject to several rules:\n\nTwo terms often heard in referring to defensive formations are \"box\" and \"secondary\". The \"box\" is defined as an area on the defensive side of the ball, within 5 yards of the line of scrimmage and framed by the offensive tackles. This area is most commonly occupied by defensive linemen and linebackers. The \"secondary\" can refer to the defensive backs as a group, or to the area behind the linebackers usually occupied by defensive backs. The two standard NFL defenses, the 4-3 and the 3-4, have 7 players in the box. The phrase \"8 in the box\" is used to indicate that 1 of the 2 safeties has moved into the box to defend against the run.\n\nThe three basic defensive positions are:\n\nRules regarding defensive formations are not as complex or strict as their offensive counterparts. The defense may line up anywhere on its side of the neutral zone, and players are free to move at any time before the snap, but all defensive players must remain on their side of the neutral zone (defined as the length of the ball) before the snap. If they line up on the wrong side of the line, the offending players are offside. The exception is during a field goal attempt, PAT, or punt. The defense is only allowed a maximum of 6 players on the line of scrimmage on either side of the snapper at the snap. Having 7 or more players on the line on one side will result in an illegal formation penalty. The standard defensive formations in use at most levels of American football are the result of decades of experimentation, trial and error, along with rule changes in the 1950s that eliminated the one-platoon system and gave greater prominence to lighter, faster linebackers (prior to the 1950s, most defensive formations were mirror images of those used on offense).\nThis formation assumes the offense is lined up strong side right (from the offense's point of view). This diagram could be matched up to an offensive formation diagram to make a complete 22 player football field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953680", "title": "Tautvilas Kęstutaitis", "text": "Tautvilas Kęstutaitis\n\nTautvilas or Towtwil (c.1352–1355 – September 1390) was one of the sons of Kęstutis, Grand Duke of Lithuania, and a strong supporter of his brother Vytautas the Great in his struggles against their cousin Jogaila.\n\nIn 1380, Jogaila signed the secret Treaty of Dovydiškės with the Teutonic Knights against Kęstutis. This sparked a civil war. Kęstutis and his son Vytautas was captured and held prisoners in Kreva castle. In 1382 Kęstutis died under suspicious circumstances, while Vytautas managed to escape and sought allies among the Teutonic Knights. Around the same time Jogaila banished Tautvilas from Navahrudak that he and his brother Vaidotas were ruling. Tautvilas then joined the fight of his brother Vytautas. While visiting the Teutonic Knights, he was baptized as Kondrat on October 21, 1383. In 1384 Vytautas and Jogaila reconciled and the civil war ended.\n\nWhen Jogaila signed the Union of Krewo and became the King of Poland, he left his unpopular brother Skirgaila as a regent in Lithuania. Vytautas saw this as an opportunity to gain power and started the Lithuanian Civil War (1389–1392). His first military campaign against Vilnius was not successful and had to turn to the Teutonic Knights for the second time. Tautvilas joined him again. Joint forces of Vytautas and the Knights attacked Vilnius in September 1390. According to the chronicles of Wigand of Marburg, Tautvilas was killed while trying to capture the Crooked Castle.\n"}
{"id": "1953690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953690", "title": "Amphora (unit)", "text": "Amphora (unit)\n\nAn amphora is the volume of a Greco-Roman era jar of the same name. They were tall, with two opposed handles near the top. The term \"amphora\" was derived from Greek words meaning \"on both sides\" and \"carry\".\n\nThe Roman \"amphora quadrantal\" (∼25.9 litres), was one cubic-\"pes\", holding 80 \"libra\" of wine, and was used to measure liquids, bulk goods, the cargo capacity of ships, and the production of vineyards. Along with other standardized Roman measures and currency) gave an added advantage to Roman commerce. The related \"amphora capitolina\" standard, was kept in the temple of Jupiter on the Capitoline Hill in Rome.\n\nA typical Greek amphora, based on a cubic-\"pous\", was ∼38.3 litres, The Greek talent, an ancient unit of weight was roughly the mass of the amount of water that would fill an amphora.\n\nThe French amphora, also called the minot de Paris, is 1/8 muid or one cubic \"pied du roi\" and therefore ∼34 litres.\n"}
{"id": "1953691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953691", "title": "Basay people", "text": "Basay people\n\nThe Basay are an aboriginal people of Taiwan. Their ancestors spoke the Basay language.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953702", "title": "Dargins", "text": "Dargins\n\nThe Dargwa or Dargin people (, \"darganti\"; , \"dargintsy\") are a Northeast Caucasian native ethnic group originating in the North Caucasus, and who make up the second largest ethnic group in the Russian republic of Dagestan. They speak the Dargwa language. The ethnic group comprises, however, all speakers of the Dargin languages; Dargwa is simply the standard variety.\n\nAccording to the 2002 Census, Dargins make up 16.5% of the population of Dagestan, with 425,526 people. They are concentrated in the Kaytagsky District, Dakhadayevsky District, Levashinsky District, Akushinsky District and Sergokalinsky Districts.\n\nThe Dargins have lived in their present-day location for many centuries. They formed the state of Kaitag in the Middle Ages and Renaissance until Russian conquest. Today, the Dargins are one of the most numerous in Dagestan (an amalgamation of many of the historical peoples in the region), the second most numerous behind the Avars.\n\nDargins are anthropologically related to the Northcaucasian race. Regarding the origin of the Northcaucasian race, two hypotheses were put forward — the autochthonous one (developed in the works of M.G. Abdushelishvili, V. P. Alekseev, etc.) and the migration one (proposed by G. F. Debets).\n\nThe Infrastructure/Architecture of the Dargin people was extremely well developed compared to their neighbors throughout history. The folk masters of this art displayed a very high level of achievement in building and ornamenting towers and fortresses, building the ensembles of buildings, mosques, bridges, and building irrigation constructions at springs and wells. The artistry of the Dargins is clearly shown in their decorative and applied art: in the creations of the Kubachi silversmiths; in the work of stonecutters, toolmakers, woodworkers, and ceramic and tile workers; in weaving, leatherwork, and furwork; and in spirited folk dance and vocal music. Dargins are known for their Kaitag textiles, from Kaytagsky District. Spiritual and religious center of Dargin nation was Akusha-Dargo. The head judicial court of all Dargins was also in Akusha. Other famous Dargin cities were Levashi, Mekegi, Kubachi and Kadar.\n\nPrior to Russia's annexation of Dargi regions, Dargi medicine was a combination of folk and Eastern medicine. Folk healers (khakim) achieved considerable success in the treatment of wounds, bruises, broken bones, and dislocations and even in trephination; they were also skilled in phytotherapy and treatment of various internal diseases. The best-known healers were Murtuzali Haji of Butri, who studied medicine in Cairo for five years, worked with the Russian surgeon N. I. Pirogov, and was given a set of surgical instruments by him; Taimaz of Urakhi; Mohammed Haji of Khajalmakhi; Davud Haji of Akusha'; Alisultan Haji of Urkarakh; and others. Medical service was instituted only in 1894, with nine doctors and twelve nurses for all of Dagestan, a ratio of one medical practitioner to 60,000 persons. Now there is a paramedical station in every settled place, or a regional doctor, or a regional, district, or interdistrict hospital and a first-aid service with its own transport, including air transport.\n\nDargins are mainly Sunni Muslims of the Shafi'i school. There are also a small minority that profess Shi'ism. Islam began making headway among the Dargins since at least the 15th century. By the 19th century, most Dargins were Muslims and are known today as being very devout.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953709", "title": "Clay Street Hill Railroad", "text": "Clay Street Hill Railroad\n\nThe Clay Street Hill Railroad was the first successful cable hauled street railway. It was located on Clay Street, a notably steep street in San Francisco in California, and first operated in August 1873.\n\nThe promoter of the line was Andrew Smith Hallidie, and the engineer was William Eppelsheimer. Accounts differ as to exactly how involved Hallidie was in the inception of the Clay Street Hill Railway. One version has him taking over the promotion of the line when the original promoter, Benjamin Brooks, failed to raise the necessary capital. In another version, Hallidie was the instigator, inspired by a desire to reduce the suffering incurred by the horses that hauled streetcars up Jackson Street, from Kearny to Stockton Street.\n\nThere is also doubt as to when exactly the first run of the cable car occurred. The franchise required a first run no later than August 1, 1873. However, at least one source reports that the run took place a day late, on August 2, but the city chose not to void the franchise. Some accounts say that the first gripman hired by Hallidie looked down the steep hill from Jones and refused to operate the car, so Hallidie took the grip himself and ran the car down the hill and up again without any problems.\n\nThe line involved the use of grip cars, which carried the grip that engaged with the cable, towing trailer cars. The design was the first to use such grips.\n\nThe Clay Street line started regular service on September 1, 1873 and was a financial success. In 1888, it was absorbed into the Sacramento-Clay line of the Ferries and Cliff House Railway, and it subsequently became a small part of the San Francisco cable car system. Today none of the original line survives. However grip car 8 from the line has been preserved, and is now displayed in the San Francisco Cable Car Museum.\n\nThe railroad was designated as California Historical Landmark #500, with the landmark marker being placed at the site of its eastern terminus near the corner of Clay Street and Kearny.\n\n\nSpecific:\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "1953716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953716", "title": "Carbonado", "text": "Carbonado\n\nCarbonado, commonly known as black diamond, is the toughest form of natural diamond. It is an impure form of polycrystalline diamond consisting of diamond, graphite, and amorphous carbon. It is found primarily in alluvial deposits in the Central African Republic and in Brazil. Its natural colour is black or dark grey, and it is more porous than other diamonds.\n\nCarbonado diamonds are typically pea-sized or larger porous aggregates of many tiny black crystals. The most characteristic carbonados have been found only in the Central African Republic and in Brazil, in neither place associated with kimberlite, the source of typical gem diamonds. Lead isotope analyses have been interpreted as documenting crystallization of carbonados about 3 billion years ago. The carbonados are found in younger sedimentary rocks.\n\nMineral grains included within diamonds have been studied extensively for clues to diamond origin. Some typical diamonds contain inclusions of common mantle minerals such as pyrope and forsterite, but such mantle minerals have not been observed in carbonado. In contrast, some carbonados contain inclusions of minerals characteristic of the Earth's crust; the inclusions do not necessarily establish formation of the diamonds in the crust, but because while the obvious crystal inclusions occur in the pores that are common in carbonados, they may have been introduced after carbonado formation. Inclusions of other minerals, rare or nearly absent in the Earth's crust, are found at least partly incorporated in diamond, not just in pores: among such other minerals are those with compositions of Si, SiC, and Fe‑Ni. No distinctive high-pressure minerals, including the hexagonal carbon polymorph, lonsdaleite, have been found as inclusions in carbonados although such inclusions might be expected if carbonados formed by meteorite impact.\n\nIsotope studies have yielded further clues to carbonado origin. The carbon isotope value is very low (little carbon‑13 compared to carbon‑12, relative to typical diamonds).\n\nCarbonado exhibits strong luminescence (photoluminescence and cathodoluminescence) induced by nitrogen and by vacancies existing in the crystal lattice. Luminescence halos are present around radioactive inclusions, and it is suggested that the radiation damage occurred after formation of the carbonados, an observation perhaps pertinent to the radiation hypothesis listed below.\n\nThe origin of carbonado is controversial, and some proposed hypotheses are as follows:\n\nNone of these hypotheses for carbonado formation had come into wide acceptance in the scientific literature by 2008.\n\nSupporters of an extraterrestrial origin of carbonados propose that their material source was a supernova which occurred at least 3.8 billion years ago. After coalescing and drifting through outer space for about one and a half billion years, a large mass fell to earth as a meteorite approximately 2.3 billion years ago. It possibly fragmented during entry into the Earth's atmosphere and impacted in a region which would much later split into Brazil and the Central African Republic, the only two known locations of carbonado deposits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953718", "title": "PCGen", "text": "PCGen\n\nPCGen is a character creation and role-playing game playing aid program for d20 System-based games, such as \"Dungeons & Dragons\".\n\nThe software is written in Java and runs on any system that supports Java 10.0.2 or later as of v6.07.09.\n\nThe program has won ENnies (EN World awards) at Gen Con twice; a bronze in 2003 for Best Resource/Fan Site and a gold in 2005 for Best Electronic Product.\n\nThe software allows players and DMs to create d20 System player characters, and subsequently maintain the character sheets in electronic format, tracking both the character statistics, their equipment and possessions, and other information related to the characters, making sure the characters are consistent with the d20 System rules.\n\nAll of the data the program uses, and all of the character data, is stored in plain text data files. Custom rules can be specified by writing new data files.\n\nPCGen ships with a Data Set Converter that will assist in the conversion of user created data sets to the latest version of PCGen. This feature only works with data sets that are compatible with PCGen v5.14.1 or later.\n\nThe character sheets can also be exported in various kinds of XML, HTML, and PDF formats. For example, the software allows character data exported in datablock format similar that is used in pre-built adventures, or character sheet format similar to the official \"D&D\" character sheets.\n\nTraditionally, the stumbling block with computerized RPG play aids has been the publisher's reluctance to allow their published rules to be redistributed in another form. However, the OGL, an \"open-source-like\" license created by Wizards of the Coast allows PCGen to include all of the material found in the System Reference Document as well as other related material. PCGen has also signed on to Paizo Publishing's Community Use Policy and the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Compatibility License. Other, non-OGL content publishers have also allowed their content, under separate agreement, to be converted to PCGen format and included in data sets shipped with PCGen. PCGen's permissions policy, and a complete list of current permissions, can be found on the Publishers and Sources Page.\n\nThere have been a few license disputes; for example, while Wizards of the Coast did not want some of the source book data to be shipped with PCGen, they later allowed Code Monkey Publishing to work on commercial versions of the WotC book data sets. However, in late 2006 WotC did not renew CMP's license, which expired on November 30, 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953723", "title": "Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor", "text": "Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor\n\nThe Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor is the highest decoration for bravery exhibited by public safety officers in the United States, comparable to the military's Medal of Honor.\n\nThe original Medal of Valor was established on June 29, 2000 by President Bill Clinton with his issuance of and was originally called the Presidential Medal of Valor for Public Safety Officers.\n\nThis award was later superseded to its current form with the enactment of the \"Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor Act of 2001\" (, , , May 30, 2001). It is still awarded and presented by the President of the United States but now it is done in the name of the United States Congress as recommended by the eleven-member Medal of Valor Review Board. The Attorney General no longer makes recommendations directly to the President but can provide input into the process via the Department of Justice's National Medal of Valor Office's support of the Review Board. The medal can still be awarded posthumously.\n\nBefore the establishment of the Medal of Valor, there were no Federal awards to specifically acknowledge the bravery performed by public safety officers throughout the United States; police and firefighting departments typically award their members medals at a state or local government level. The establishment of the Medal of Valor filled a huge void in the civilian decorations system of the United States, which was all the more timely given the catastrophe in New York three-and-a-half months later on September 11, 2001. (In the end, however, the 442 public safety officers killed at World Trade Center and The Pentagon that day were awarded the 9/11 Heroes Medal of Valor, a similar but separate award.)\n\nOn July 27, 2017, Donald Trump awarded five first responders with the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor for their response to the 2017 Congressional baseball shooting.\n\nOn February 20, 2018, Trump again awarded twelve first responders with the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor who have risked \"their lives to protect America's citizens and communities.\"\n\nOn September 9, 2019, President Trump again awarded the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor to six police officers and five civilians who responded to the mass shootings in Dayton, Ohio and El Paso, Texas respectively.\n\nThe Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor, which intentionally resembles the military's Medal of Honor, is a gilt, blue-enameled, five-pointed, upside-down star (i.e. one arm points downwards), with each arm formed by a letter \"V\" (for \"Valor\"), surrounded by a wreath of laurel. The central disc bears the obverse of the Great Seal of the United States. The reverse bears the legend \"FOR EXTRAORDINARY VALOR ABOVE AND BEYOND THE CALL OF DUTY\", with the name of the recipient engraved at the center. The medal is suspended on a gilt disc bearing a letter \"V\" surrounded by a wreath of laurels, which is in turn suspended on a neck ribbon, blue with white and red edge stripes (the national colors of the USA) and a gold center stripe (symbolizing honor).\n\nWhen the ribbon alone is worn, it carries a miniature gold gilt disc bearing a letter \"V\" surrounded by a wreath of laurels. There is also a lapel pin, which is the miniature of the medal without suspension.\n\nAs the award is presented by the President, the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor Act of 2001 also repealed the previously awarded President's Award For Outstanding Public Safety Service (President's Award) and revised the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 to remove the President's Award but keep the Secretary's Award For Distinguished Public Safety Service (Secretary's Award), which is an honorary award presented by the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the Attorney General for the recognition of outstanding and distinguished service by public safety officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953727", "title": "Glen Riddle Farm", "text": "Glen Riddle Farm\n\nGlen Riddle Farm was a large horse farm in Berlin, Maryland in the United States. Located on what today is Route 50 between Ocean City and Berlin, it was owned by a wealthy textile businessman Samuel D. Riddle who named it for his home town Glen Riddle, Pennsylvania which in turn had been named for his grandfather.\n\nIn addition to the stables and large mansion, Glen Riddle Farm had a one-mile racing oval for training thoroughbred racehorses. The farm was home to Hall of Fame racehorses Man o' War, U.S. Triple Crown winner War Admiral, Crusader as well as other successful thoroughbreds such as Massachusetts Handicap winner War Relic, and American Flag, a son of Man o' War who won the 1925 Belmont Stakes and was voted Champion 3-year-old Male Horse.\n\nAs part of a program honoring important horse racing tracks and racing stables, the Pennsylvania Railroad named its baggage car #5849 the \"Glen Riddle Farm\".\n\nSamuel D. Riddle raced horses until his death in 1951 after which his heirs took over the property. A fire in 1969 destroyed the mansion and the farm was soon abandoned, left in disrepair for more than thirty years until real estate developers acquired it and built a residential housing complex in 2004.\n\nIn the mid-1920s, Samuel Riddle acquired Faraway Farm in Lexington, Kentucky where he would send his broodmares along with Man o' War, American Flag, and other stallions.\n\nGlen Riddle Farm's horses won numerous important stakes races including the following prestigious U.S. Triple Crown races:\n\n"}
{"id": "1953732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953732", "title": "Thomas Hudson (painter)", "text": "Thomas Hudson (painter)\n\nThomas Hudson (1701 – 26 January 1779) was an English portrait painter.\n\nHudson was born in Devon in 1701. His exact birthplace is unknown. He studied under Jonathan Richardson in London and against his wishes, married Richardson's daughter at some point before 1725.\n\nHudson was most prolific between 1740 and 1760 and, from 1745 until 1755 was the most successful London portraitist.\n\nHe had many assistants, and employed the specialist drapery painter Joseph van Aken. Joshua Reynolds, Joseph Wright and the drapery painter Peter Toms were his students.\n\nHudson visited the Low Countries in 1748 and Italy in 1752. In 1753 he bought a house at Cross Deep, Twickenham, just upstream from Pope’s Villa. He retired toward the end of the 1750s. William Hickey described the elderly Hudson, \"His figure was rather grotesque, being uncommonly low in stature, with a prodigious belly, and constantly wearing a large white bushy periwig. He was remarkably good tempered, and one of my first-rate favourites, notwithstanding that he often told me I should certainly be hanged.\". He died at Twickenham in 1779. His extensive private art collection was sold off in three separate sales.\n\nMany of Hudson's works may be seen in art galleries throughout the United Kingdom. They include the National Portrait Gallery, the National Maritime Museum, Tate, Barnstaple Guildhall, Foundling Museum and the Bristol City Museum and Art Gallery.\n\nHudson died in 1779, aged 77 or 78.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953734", "title": "Acrylic fiber", "text": "Acrylic fiber\n\nAcrylic fibers are synthetic fibers made from a polymer (polyacrylonitrile) with an average molecular weight of -100,000, about 1900 monomer units. For a fiber to be called \"acrylic\" in the US, the polymer must contain at least 85% acrylonitrile monomer. Typical comonomers are vinyl acetate or methyl acrylate. DuPont created the first acrylic fibers in 1941 and trademarked them under the name Orlon. It was first developed in the mid-1940s but was not produced in large quantities until the 1950s. Strong and warm, acrylic fiber is often used for sweaters and tracksuits and as linings for boots and gloves, as well as in furnishing fabrics and carpets. It is manufactured as a filament, then cut into short staple lengths similar to wool hairs, and spun into yarn.\n\nModacrylic is a modified acrylic fiber that contains at least 35% and at most 85% acrylonitrile monomer. The comonomers vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride or vinyl bromide used in modacrylic give the fiber flame retardant properties. End-uses of modacrylic include faux fur, wigs, hair extensions and protective clothing.\n\nThe polymer is formed by free-radical polymerization in aqueous suspension. The fiber is produced by dissolving the polymer in a solvent such as N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) or aqueous sodium thiocyanate, metering it through a multi-hole spinnerette and coagulating the resultant filaments in an aqueous solution of the same solvent (wet spinning) or evaporating the solvent in a stream of heated inert gas (dry spinning). Washing, stretching, drying and crimping complete the processing. Acrylic fibers are produced in a range of deniers, usually from 0.9 to 15, as cut staple or as a 500,000 to 1 million filament tow. End uses include sweaters, hats, hand-knitting yarns, socks, rugs, awnings, boat covers, and upholstery; the fiber is also used as \"PAN\" precursor for carbon fiber. Production of acrylic fibers is centered in the Far East, Turkey, India, Mexico, and South America, though a number of European producers still continue to operate, including Dralon and Fisipe. US producers have ended production (except for specialty uses such as in friction materials, gaskets, specialty papers, conductive, and stucco), though acrylic tow and staple are still spun into yarns in the USA. \nIn the late 1950s Courtaulds Ltd began investigating the production of an acrylic fibre later to be called \"courtelle\" by a process of solvent polymerisation. Methyl acrylate (6%) and acrylonitrile were polymerised in a 50% solution of sodium thiocyanate to produce a dope ready for spinning into a waterbath to produce \"courtelle\" fibre in various grades of denier. The sodium thiocyanate solution was reconcentrated and re used. The reaction was a continuous process with about 5% of reactants being recycled. This recycling process resulted in the build up of pollutants in the process as did the recycling of the solvent. A great deal of research in the Chemical engineering laboratory in Lockhurst Lane, Coventry, and on the pre production pilot plant at Little Heath overcame the recycling problems and resulted in the process becoming a commercial success at a new production plant in Grimsby.\n\nAcrylic is lightweight, soft, and warm, with a wool-like feel. It can also be made to mimic other fibers, such as cotton when spun on short staple equipment. Some acrylic is extruded in colored or pigmented form; other is extruded in \"ecru\", otherwise known as \"natural,\" \"raw white,\" or \"undyed.\" Pigmented fiber has the highest lightfastness. Its fibers are very resilient compared to both other synthetics and natural fibers. Some acrylic is used in clothing as a less expensive alternative to cashmere, due to the similar feeling of the materials. Some acrylic fabrics may fuzz or pill easily, though there are low-pilling variants. Acrylic takes color well, is washable, and is generally hypoallergenic. End-uses include socks, hats, gloves, scarves, sweaters, home furnishing fabrics, and awnings. Acrylic can also be used to make fake fur and to make many different knitted clothes.\n\nAs acrylic is a synthetic fiber, the larvae of clothes moths are unable to digest it. However, acrylic fibers that are blended with wool or soiled may be eaten as a consequence of having blended fibers.\n\nAcrylic is the \"workhorse\" hand-crafting fiber for crafters who knit or crochet; acrylic yarn may be perceived as \"cheap\" because it is typically priced lower than its natural-fiber counterparts, and because it lacks some of their properties, including softness and propensity to felt. The fiber requires heat to \"relax\" or set the shape of the finished garment, and it isn't as warm when wet as alternatives like wool. Some hand-knitters also complain that the fiber \"squeaks\" when knitted, or that it is painful to knit with because of a lack of \"give\" or stretch in the yarn. On the other hand, it is machine-washable and extremely color-fast. This makes it useful in certain items, like garments for babies, which require constant washing. However it is much more flammable than its natural fiber counterparts, so caution should be used when making items for babies and children.\n\nA team at Plymouth University in the UK spent 12 months analyzing what happened when a number of synthetic materials were washed at different temperatures in domestic washing machines, using different combinations of detergents, to quantify the microfibres shed. They found that acrylic was responsible for releasing nearly 730,000 tiny synthetic particles (microplastics) per wash, five times more than polyester-cotton blend fabric, and nearly 1.5 times as many as pure polyester. Research by ecologist Mark Browne showed synthetic fibre waste over coastlines at a global scale, with the greatest concentration near sewage outflows. Of the man-made material found on the shoreline, 85% were microfibers and matched the types of material (such as nylon and acrylic) used in clothing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953736", "title": "Members of the 18th Dáil", "text": "Members of the 18th Dáil\n\nThis is a list of members who were elected to the 18th Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Oireachtas (legislature) of Ireland. These TDs (Members of Parliament) were elected at the 1965 general election on 7 April 1965 and met on 21 April 1965. The 18th Dáil was dissolved by President Éamon de Valera, at the request of the Taoiseach Jack Lynch on 22 May 1969. The 18th Dáil lasted 1,281 days, and saw a change of Taoiseach from Seán Lemass to Jack Lynch.\n\nGovernment party denoted with bullet (•)\n\nThis is a graphical comparison of party strengths in the 18th Dáil from April 1965.\n\n\nThe list of the 144 TDs elected, is given in alphabetical order by constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953739", "title": "Robert Liston", "text": "Robert Liston\n\nRobert Liston (28 October 1794 – 7 December 1847) was a pioneering Scottish surgeon. Liston was noted for his skill in an era prior to anaesthetics, when speed made a difference in terms of pain and survival.\n\nHe was the son of Margaret Ireland and Scottish clergyman and inventor Henry Liston, whose father—Robert Liston—was the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland.\n\nListon received his education at the University of Edinburgh, became first 'The Great Northern Anatomist' of \"Blackwell's Magazine\", and in 1818 became a surgeon in The Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh. In 1832/1833 he is listed as living at 99 George Street in the centre of Edinburgh's New Town. He lived from 1840 to 1847 at 5 Clifford Street, off Bond Street in Mayfair, in a building and area now of historical significance, hence Richard Gordon's specific mention of this address in his section on Robert Liston.\n\nHe died of an aneurysm and was buried in the Terrace Catacombs in Highgate Cemetery.\n\nListon's legacy comprises both that which has made its way into the popular culture, and that found primarily within the medical fraternity and related disciplines.\n\nIn 1837, he published Practical Surgeries arguing the importance of quick surgeries; \"these operations must be set about with determination and completed rapidly.\"\n\nListon's image has been preserved in both bust and portrait form. Following Liston's death, a meeting was held of his friends and admirers, who \"unanimously resolved to establish some public and lasting Testimonial to the memory of this distinguished surgeon\". A committee of some 78 people was formed, which resolved that the testimonial should consist of a marble statue to be placed in some designated public spot, and the inauguration of a Gold Medal, to be called the \"Liston Medal\", \"and awarded annually, as the Council of University College, may decide\".\n\nRichard Gordon describes Liston as \"the fastest knife in the West End. He could amputate a leg in 2 minutes\". Indeed, he is reputed to have been able to complete operations in a matter of seconds, at a time when speed was essential to reduce pain and improve the odds of survival of a patient; he is said to have been able to perform the removal of a limb in an amputation in 28 seconds.\n\nIn Florence Nightingale's \"Notes on Nursing\", she states \"there are many physical operations where \"ceteris paribus\" (all else being equal) the danger is in a direct ratio to the time the operation lasts; and \"ceteris paribus\" the operator's success will be in direct ratio to his quickness\".\n\nGordon described the scene thus:\n\nHe was six foot two, and operated in a bottle-green coat with wellington boots. He sprung across the blood-stained boards upon his swooning, sweating, strapped-down patient like a duelist, calling, 'Time me gentlemen, time me!' to students craning with pocket watches from the iron-railinged galleries. Everyone swore that the first flash of his knife was followed so swiftly by the rasp of saw on bone that sight and sound seemed simultaneous. To free both hands, he would clasp the bloody knife between his teeth.\nGordon's prose is more than just caricature. He describes how the link between surgical hygiene and iatrogenic infection was poorly understood at that time. At an address by Dr Oliver Wendell Holmes to the Boston Society for Medical Improvement on 13 February 1843, his suggestions for hygiene improvement to reduce obstetric infections and mortality from puerperal fever \"outraged obstetricians, particularly in Philadelphia\". In those days, \"surgeons operated in blood-stiffened frock coats – the stiffer the coat, the prouder the busy surgeon\", \"pus was as inseparable from surgery as blood\", and \"Cleanliness was next to prudishness\". He quotes Sir Frederick Treves on that era: \"There was no object in being clean...Indeed, cleanliness was out of place. It was considered to be finicking and affected. An executioner might as well manicure his nails before chopping off a head\". Indeed, the connection between surgical hygiene, infection, and maternal mortality rates at Vienna General Hospital was only made in 1847 by Vienna physician Dr Ignaz Philipp Semmelweis from Hungary, after a close colleague of his died. He instituted the hygiene practices exhorted by Holmes, and the mortality rate fell.\n\nSuch was the era in which Liston lived. Gordon states that Liston was \"an abrupt, abrasive, argumentative man, unfailingly charitable to the poor and tender to the sick (who) was vilely unpopular to his fellow surgeons at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. He relished operating successfully in the reeking tenements of the Grassmarket and Lawnmarket on patients they had discharged as hopelessly incurable. They conspired to bar him from the wards, banished him south, where he became professor of surgery at University College Hospital and made a fortune\".\n\nIn writings on Liston, he is portrayed as a man of strong character and ethics, which was the source of some of his confrontational style. In one case, he confronted a medical colleague (Dr Robert Knox) over the treatment of a young woman (Mary Paterson) who it later transpired was murdered (see Burke and Hare murders), with Knox thought complicit in the murder. She was in Knox's dissecting rooms within four hours of her death, and kept in whisky for three months before dissection, during which time she was essentially on voyeuristic display. Liston's response is documented in a letter from himAccording to Liston, he saw Mary Paterson's body in Knox's rooms and immediately suspected foul play. He knocked Knox down after an altercation in front of his students – Liston assumed some students had slept with her when she was alive, and that they should dissect her body offended his sense of decency. He removed her body for burial.\nWhile Liston's pioneering contributions are paid tribute within popular culture such as Richard Gordon, they are best known within the medical fraternity and related disciplines.\n\nAlthough Richard Gordon's 1983 book pays tribute to other aspects of Liston's character and legacy as noted elsewhere in this article, it is his description of some of Liston's most famous cases which has primarily made its way into what is known of Liston in popular culture. Gordon describes Liston's four most famous cases in his book, as quoted verbatim below.\n\n\nDoubts have been raised as to the veracity of these cases. The situation that Gordon labels \"Liston's most famous case\" may be apocryphal.\n\n\n\n22. \"Great Medical Disasters\", Gordon, Richard. 2001. Print. Page 15.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953748", "title": "List of unconstructed state highways in California", "text": "List of unconstructed state highways in California\n\nThe following state highways in the U.S. state of California are entirely or partially unconstructed; in other words, their routings have been defined by state law, but no route has been adopted by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans).\n\nState Route 11 is a planned 3-mile (4.8 km) tolled route, running southeast from near the junction of SR 905 and SR 125 to a future Mexican border crossing east of Otay Mesa. The first phase of the highway from SR 905 to Enrico Fermi Drive opened on March 19, 2016.\n\nThe westernmost 9.2 miles (14.8 km) of State Route 12 are unconstructed, from SR 116 in Sebastopol west to SR 1. This would be today's Bodega Highway and Freestone-Valley Ford Road, but Caltrans has no plans to take them over.\n\nThe south end of State Route 13 is unconstructed, extending 4.5 miles (7.2 km) beyond I-580 to SR 61 near the Oakland International Airport. A very short piece at the north end has also not been built, extending west into the San Francisco Bay to the unconstructed SR 61 freeway.\n\nA 21.8-mile (35.1 km) extension of State Route 14 from the Newhall Pass interchange with I-5 south to SR 1 northwest of Santa Monica was once proposed as the Reseda Freeway. The postmiles on the existing alignment reflect the existence of this unconstructed segment, but the new exit numbers on State Route 14 suggest this segment has been abandoned. The section between US 101 and SR 118 would be Reseda Boulevard, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nState Route 18 is unconstructed from its end at SR 210 in San Bernardino south to I-10, a distance of 4.1 miles (6.6 km).\n\nA 15.1-mile (24.3 km) eastern extension of State Route 24 from I-680 at Walnut Creek to SR 4 near Pittsburg is unconstructed. It is today's Ygnacio Valley Road, Kirker Pass Road and Railroad Avenue.\n\nOriginally, the route overlapped I-680 through Walnut Creek and split off and connect to SR 4 in Concord. The route continued along State Route 4 from the current intersection of 242 to the Antioch Bridge, continuing along the river road to Sacramento, currently State Route 160, then continuing north to Woodland, Marysville, Oroville, along the North Fork of the Feather River to a junction with State Route 89 (this segment is currently State Route 70), where it continued dual-numbered with 89 through Quincy. Highway 24 split from 89 near Graeagle, and continued east through Portola east until its terminus at U.S. Route 395. Parts of the same route were also sometimes designated as State Route 84. SR 24 was truncated to I-680 by 1987 and the segment in Concord was renumbered SR 242.\nThe eastern segment of State Route 36, stretching 17.0 miles (27.4 km) from SR 139 north of Susanville east to US 395 near Termo, was unconstructed until it was deleted from the legislative definition in 1998. A locally-maintained route is S. Grasshopper Road, Westside Road, and Fillman Road, but it was not built on a proper alignment for construction as a state highway, and there were no plans for a freeway or expressway. It was still listed in the 2002 report.\n\nAn unconstructed 11.2-mile (18.0 km) western extension of State Route 37 runs from US 101 near Novato to SR 1 near Nicasio. A locally maintained traversable route is Point Reyes-Petaluma Road and Novato Boulevard, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\n11.4 miles (18.3 km) of State Route 39 are unconstructed, from Harbor Boulevard and Whittier Avenue in La Habra north to I-10 in Azusa. However, Section 339(c) of the California Streets and Highways Code designates Harbor Boulevard and Azusa Avenue to be on the corridor between the two existing segments. As yet, the California Transportation Commission, as empowered in Section 75(a) of the California Streets and Highways Code, has not adopted the Harbor Boulevard-Azusa Avenue link. It is noted that an END Route 39 sign exists at the intersection of Whittier Boulevard and Harbor Boulevard. In addition, the northernmost 4.5 miles of Route 39, in the Angeles National Forest between 1.8 miles north of Crystal Lake Road and Route 2 at Islip Saddle, have been closed since a 1978 landslide.\n\nState Route 47 is constructed as a freeway from I-110 in San Pedro east and north to the split with SR 103. The 1.2-mile (1.9 km) segment along Ocean Boulevard is currently being upgraded, and the 7.6-mile (12.2 km) portion along Henry Ford Avenue and Alameda Street north to SR 91 has been upgraded as part of the Alameda Corridor Project, existing as a mostly below-grade surface street. Caltrans has no plans for the remainder of the legislated route, stretching 8.6 miles (13.8 km) north from SR 91 to I-10 near downtown Los Angeles.\nState Route 48 is completely unconstructed, stretching 8.5 miles (13.7 km) from the northern junction of SR 14 and SR 138 near Lancaster east to proposed SR 122.\n\nSR 48 was originally planned to run from Ridge Route Road (approximately four miles east of Interstate 5) near Quail Lake in Los Angeles County to SR 122 near the Los Angeles / San Bernardino County Line. The segment between Ridge Route Road and SR 14 was signed as SR 138, which was defined on a southeasterly course through or paralleling Oakdale and Pine Canyons to meet SR 14 in Palmdale opposite the easterly continuation of Route 138. The planned rerouting was known as the Metropolitan Bypass Freeway. In 1965, because of constructability issues on the proposed realignment of Route 138 through or near Oakdale and Pine Canyons, the proposed junction, and thus the west end of SR 48, was moved east to 170th Street West. In 1996, the segment of SR 48 between 170th Street West and SR 14 was transferred to SR 138, leaving only the unconstructed portion. A locally maintained traversable route is East Avenue E, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nState Route 56 is unconstructed from I-15 east through Poway to SR 67.\n\nA southerly extension of State Route 57, stretching 13.0 miles (20.9 km) from SR 22 near Santa Ana south to SR 1 near Huntington Beach, is unconstructed.\n\nA total of 24.3 miles (39.1 km) of State Route 61 are unconstructed, running south from SR 112 near San Leandro to SR 84 near Newark and north from SR 260 in Alameda to I-580 near Albany.\n\nState Route 64 is an unconstructed highway connecting SR 1 near Malibu Beach with I-5 at SR 170 south of San Fernando. It was legislated in 1959 as Route 265, and renumbered Route 64 in 1964. It was proposed as a 30.9-mile freeway. The section from SR 1 to US 101 was deleted from the Freeway and Expressway system on November 23, 1970. The remainder was deleted from the Freeway and Expressway system on January 1, 1976. A locally maintained traversable route is Malibu Canyon Road, Las Virgenes Road, Bell Canyon Fire Road, Saddlebow Road, Bell Canyon Road, Valley Circle Boulevard, Roscoe Boulevard, and Tuxford Street, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over. The route concept report recommends deletion of the route from the highway system.\n\nOver two-thirds of State Route 65 is a proposed route through the eastern San Joaquin Valley, splitting the maintained route in two. This unconstructed highway stretches 215.9 miles (347.5 km) from SR 198 near Exeter to I-80 in Roseville. It was signed on Sunrise Boulevard with U.S. 50 until 1976. However, with the projected growth of the Central Valley, interest has reemerged in constructing all or part of the unconstructed portion of SR 65, at least as far north as an unconstructed eastern extension of SR 152.\n\nThe eastern end of State Route 74 from SR 111 in Palm Desert north 5.5 miles (8.9 km) to I-10 was unconstructed until it was relinquished and deleted from the legislative definition in 2013. It was planned on Monterey Avenue.\n\nState Route 77 presently stretches only 0.4 miles (0.6 km) from I-880 northeast to SR 185 in Oakland. A 13.4-mile (21.6 km) extension is unconstructed, running generally northeast to SR 24 near Lafayette. It is to follow 42nd Avenue, High Street, 35th Avenue, Redwood Road, Pinehurst Road, and Canyon Road, and to be a freeway north of SR 93/Moraga Way.\n\nState Route 81 is an entirely-unconstructed 30.9-mile (49.7 km) freeway from I-215 southeast of Riverside west and north around the south and west sides of Riverside to I-15 south of Devore. Although the legislation noted that Sierra Avenue is Route 81, it is not signed as Route 81 and doesn't appear to be formally part of the route. The route was defined in 1959 as Legislative Route 276 and renumbered to Route 81 in 1964.\n\nA 13-mile (21 km) piece in the middle of State Route 84 is unconstructed, stretching north from I-580 in Livermore to SR 4 near Brentwood. A traversable route is Vasco Road. The section between SR 4 and SR 12 is concurrent with SR 160. The Mid-State Tollway, if built, will be built from I-680 to SR 4 and will most likely be designated SR 84, and the spur will mostly likely be designated SR 239.\n\nAn unconstructed northern extension of State Route 87 runs from the present end at US 101 to SR 237 near Alviso. A locally maintained traversable route is Charcot Avenue and North First Street.\n\nIt once extended to Interstate 480 (which itself became SR 480 in 1968 and was cancelled in 1991) in San Francisco as a proposed highway east of US 101. In 1968, SR 87's north end was truncated to I-280, as the section west of I-280 was transferred to I-80; the old route of I-80 became SR 241, which was cancelled in 1972 due to environmental concerns. In 1970, the section from I-280 to SR 230 was transferred to SR 230. The section from SR 230 to SR 238 was cancelled due to environmental concerns. In 1980, the section from SR 238 to SR 237 was cancelled due to environmental concerns.\n\nThe central portion of State Route 90 is unsigned or unconstructed, stretching from I-405 east to SR 39. It is Slauson Avenue, Mulberry Drive, La Mirada Boulevard, and Imperial Highway. The route concept report recommends deletion of Route 90 from the state highway system from unsigned or unconstructed Route 258 to the Orange County line (and possibly renumbering one of the sections).\n\nA short 2.2-mile (3.5 km) easterly extension of State Route 92, from the current end at SR 238 to I-580, is unconstructed. A traversable route is A Street and Grove Way, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nAll of State Route 93 is unconstructed, on a 17.9-mile (28.8 km) route from the proposed SR 77 near Moraga northwest, west, and southwest to I-580 in Richmond. It is Moraga Way, Camino Pablo, San Pablo Dam Road, and an undetermined routing from there, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over; however, Richmond Parkway is proposed to be designated as SR 93, as callboxes are signed CC-93.\n\nState Route 100 is a completely unconstructed beachfront loop in Santa Cruz, stretching 4.5 miles (7.2 km) from SR 1 west of downtown to SR 1 near SR 17. It was proposed as a freeway, but in August 1975, the freeway was cancelled due to local opposition.\n\nState Route 102 is a 37.5-mile (60.4 km) unconstructed freeway that would generally parallel I-80, beginning at I-5 near SR 99 north of Sacramento and heading east across I-80 and northeast to I-80 near Auburn. It is currently in the design process.\n\n8.3 miles (13.4 km) of State Route 104 are unconstructed, stretching east from SR 49 near Amador City to SR 88 near Pine Grove. It is Ridge Road and Climax Road, and Caltrans is planning to take it over.\n\nA 21.5-mile (34.6 km) extension of State Route 108 is unconstructed, from its present west end at SR 132 in Modesto southwest to I-5 near Crows Landing. This is Crows Landing Road and Fink Road, which the county wants Caltrans to take over, but Caltrans has no plans to do so.\n\nA 10.5-mile (16.9 km) eastern segment of State Route 118 is unconstructed, running from I-210 near Sunland east to proposed SR 249 north of La Cañada Flintridge. A locally maintained traversable route is I-210 and Big Tujunga Canyon Road, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nState Route 122 is a completely unconstructed 61.3-mile (98.7 km) freeway, defined to run from SR 14 south of Palmdale northeast and east past the east end of proposed SR 48 to SR 58 west of Barstow. A locally maintained traversable route is along SR 138 and 50th Street East, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nThe portion of State Route 125 north of SR 52 in Santee is unconstructed, ending at a proposed eastern extension of SR 56 near Poway.\n\nThe easternmost 10.4-mile (16.7 km) portion of State Route 128 is unconstructed, connecting I-505 near Winters (the current end) with SR 113 near Davis. The 2002 Traversable Highways Report indicates that this segment will be considered for assumption of maintenance after a two-mile section of Russell Boulevard just east of I-505 is reconstructed. Yolo County will improve the roadway as funds permit. However, it is unclear if this ever happened.\n\nA section of State Route 130 is unconstructed, stretching 24.8 miles from the present end at the Stanislaus County Line east to SR 33 near Patterson. A traversable route is along San Antonio Valley Road, Del Puerto Canyon Road, and Sperry Avenue. A proposed freeway path west of San Antonio Valley Road bypassing Mount Hamilton from either to the north toward State Route 237 or to the south toward San Jose's Evergreen district to I-5 was planned but feasibility of the project came into question, however, as constructing a freeway over the Diablo Range near three of its highest peaks (Mount Hamilton included) and across the Calaveras Fault would have been very difficult. The project also faced stiff opposition from taxpayers, environmentalists, residents of the area looking to preserve their area's local charm, and the Lick Observatory. (A freeway through the mountains near the observatory would render it useless due to light pollution.) The freeway plan was quietly abandoned as a result in 2006.\n\nFor unknown reasons, State Route 133 was erroneously listed as unconstructed until it was corrected as not being a freeway in 1999. It was still listed in the 2002 report.\n\nState Route 138 had an unconstructed section along Ridge Route Road and Elizabeth Lake Road to State Route 14; current routing east of Ridge Route Road to SR 14 was SR 48. In 1965, SR 138 was rerouted along a section of SR 48 from Ridge Route Road to 170th Street West because of constructability issues, removing one unconstructed portion. In 1996, SR 138 was rerouted along another section of SR 48 from 170th Street west to SR 14, removing the remainder of the unconstructed portion.\n\nThe eastern segment of State Route 142, the 9.5-mile (15.3 km) Carbon Canyon Freeway, is unconstructed, running from SR 71 near Chino to SR 210 near Upland.\n\nState Route 143 is a 19.7-mile (31.7 km) unconstructed highway of Sacramento, beginning at SR 99 near Elk Grove and ending at the east end of SR 244 near Carmichael. In 1994, it extended north, replacing a section of SR 244, to Auburn Boulevard. It was proposed as a freeway, but that was cancelled in 1975 due to opposition. The existing arterials Grant Line Road and Bradshaw Road approximating the route are currently utilized, and in 2002 Caltrans recommended removing the route definition from the state highway system (but this never appeared to happen).\n\nState Route 148 is an unconstructed highway of Sacramento, stretching 16.3 miles (26.2 km) from I-5 east to proposed SR 65. It was proposed as a freeway, but that was cancelled in 1975 due to opposition. The City of Sacramento proposed Cosumnes River Boulevard and Calvine Road for this highway. In 2002, Caltrans recommended removing the route definition from the state highway system (but this never appeared to happen). In 2010, the freeway option was brought back as the Capital Southeast Connector. It is under construction.\n\nA 15.1-mile (24.3 km) easterly extension of State Route 152 is unconstructed, connecting the current east end at SR 99 near Chowchilla with proposed SR 65.\n\nState Route 157, which was proposed from I-805 near Ocean View Boulevard in San Diego to SR 125 near the Sweetwater Reservoir, was unconstructed until it was deleted in 1994.\n\nA 62.9-mile (101.2 km) portion in the middle of State Route 162, between Covelo and Elk Creek, is unconstructed. It is Mendocino Pass Road and Alder Springs Road, and Caltrans is taking it over, with signage being put up.\n\nThe southernmost 1.4 mile (2.3 km) of State Route 164 is unconstructed, connecting SR 19 with I-605 near Pico Rivera. This section is the proposed Rio Hondo Freeway.\n\nAn 18.2-mile (29.3 km) portion in the middle of State Route 169 along the Klamath River is unconstructed, between Klamath Glen and Johnsons. This is due to the flooding. Caltrans has completed a feasibility study for this section.\n\nState Route 171, which was proposed from I-5 near San Diego to I-805, was unconstructed until it was deleted in 1994.\n\n56.0 miles (90.1 km) of State Route 178 is unconstructed, from east of Ridgecrest to Death Valley National Park. The \"traversable\" route is a winding dirt road through mountain passes in a desolate area. It passes through the gunnery range of the China Lake Naval Weapons Center and through the Wingate Wash area (a National Park Service designated wilderness area). The area is not suitable for a state highway, and District 9 recommends it be rerouted or deleted from the state highway system (and one of the sections possibly renumbered).\n\nState Route 179 is a 13.8-mile (22.2 km) routing along Cherry Glen Rd and Pleasants Valley Rd, connecting I-80 near Vacaville with SR 128 near Lake Berryessa.\n\nState Route 180 is unconstructed from its present end at SR 33 in Mendota west to I-5, and from I-5 west to SR 25 near Paicines, a total of 81.2 miles (130.7 km). This would be along Panoche Road, Little Panoche Road, Shields Avenue, Fairfax Avenue, and Belmont Avenue, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nState Route 181 is an entirely unconstructed 9.5-mile (15.3 km) route, from SR 116 near Forestville to US 101 north of Santa Rosa. A locally maintained traversable route has been defined via Mirabel Road and River Road, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nThe central portion of State Route 190 is unconstructed, stretching 43.0 miles (69.2 km) from Quaking Aspen in the Sequoia National Forest to US 395 at Olancha. On June 25, 1982, deleting the unconstructed section was recommended, but nothing ever happened. District 9 recommends deleting the unconstructed portion (and possibly renumbering one of the sections).\n\nState Route 211, formerly part of SR 1, stretches only 5 miles (8 km) from US 101 near Fernbridge to Ferndale. A locally maintained traversable route, which the state does not plan to take over, continues south from Ferndale for 102.8 miles (165.4 km) along Mattole Road, Wilder Ridge Road, Kings Peak Road, Chemise Mountain Road, and Usal Road to SR 1 near Rockport.\n\nUntil recently, State Route 213 had an unconstructed section from I-405 to Carson Street. Caltrans took over Western Avenue between these points, and signed and designated it as SR 213, making it completely constructed.\n\nA 5.0-mile (8.0 km) western extension of State Route 217 is unconstructed, leading from the present end at the University of California at Santa Barbara northwest to US 101.\n\nThe southern end of State Route 227 is unconstructed, stretching 1.7 miles (2.7 km) from US 101 in Arroyo Grande to SR 1 east of Oceano. There is no locally maintained traversable route, but there is a proposed routing.\n\nState Route 228 was a 2.5-mile unconstructed route between SR 86 2.5 miles southwest of Brawley and SR 86 west of Brawley. Its routing would roughly have been a continuation of Imperial Avenue north to near Kalin Avenue, bypassing downtown Brawley. It was deleted in 1998, but was still listed in the 2002 report.\n\nState Route 230 is a 4.1-mile (6.6 km) completely unconstructed route in southeastern San Francisco and San Mateo County, linking US 101 with I-280 along the San Francisco Bay. Except for the southern end, the route was part of SR 87 until 1970, when SR 87 was cancelled north of SR 237. Some of the plans for a Southern Crossing across the bay would have used SR 230. It was proposed as a freeway, but the freeway option was cancelled on October 21, 1976 due to opposition.\n\nState Route 234 and State Route 235 are unconstructed southern and northern bypasses of Stockton, each linking I-5 with SR 99. Caltrans has no plans to build either, but has identified locally-maintained traversable routes: French Camp Road for the 3.4-mile (5.5 km) SR 234, and Eight Mile Road for the 6.4-mile (10.3 km) SR 235. However, one Caltrans map makes the route of SR 234 appear to be Arch-Airport Road. On November 29, 1993, San Joaquin County adopted Eight Mile Road as an arterial highway and dropped interest in it as a state highway.\n\nA northern extension of State Route 238 is unconstructed, stretching west 1.6 miles (2.6 km) from the end of I-238 at I-580 to proposed SR 61 near San Lorenzo. A locally maintained traversable route is along Lewelling Boulevard. The entire route was a proposed freeway and was sent to the Interstate Highway System in October 1968 but was rejected. Then after a series of lawsuits and appeals, the freeway plan was canceled in 2003 and Caltrans sold off the property it had acquired in the name of eminent domain along the proposed route. A bridge over I-680 in Fremont that had already been constructed to serve the route was demolished as a result.\n\nState Route 239 is a 17-mile (27.4 km) unconstructed route that would link I-580 at I-205 west of Tracy with SR 4 near Brentwood. Caltrans has identified Mountain House Road and Byron Highway (CR J4) as a traversable route, but has no plans to maintain it. In 2005, the federal legislation known as provided $14 million for the purpose of studying the route's corridor and funding its construction. The spur of the Mid-State Tollway, if built, will most likely be designated as SR 239, while the main tollway will most likely be designated as SR 84.\n\nThe south end of State Route 241, from Oso Parkway south to I-5 near San Clemente, is currently in the planning stages. The section from Oso Parkway to Cow Camp Road near SR 74 is currently under construction while the remainder of the extension is still under discussion.\n\nUntil 1994, State Route 244 included an unconstructed extension from Auburn Boulevard east to Fair Oaks Boulevard in Sacramento County. This was transferred to SR 143.\n\nState Route 249 is a 13.5-mile (21.7 km) unconstructed route that would connect SR 2 north of La Cañada Flintridge with SR 14 south of Palmdale. Angeles Forest Highway (CR N3) follows the general alignment, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over. However, there are plans to explore the building of this route between Palmdale and Los Angeles tunneling through the mountains.\n\nState Route 251 is a completely unconstructed route, defined to extend from I-580 near Point San Quentin to SR 1 near Point Reyes Station. The 1.6-mile (2.6 km) portion east of US 101 was defined in 1959 to be Legislative Route 251 and it kept its number. This section was proposed by Caltrans to be improved and signed as SR 251, but that never happened. Now Caltrans has no plans to take over that section. The rest was the proposed 22.9-mile (36.9 km) Point Reyes Freeway, and was part of SR 17 until 1984, when SR 17 over the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge became I-580.\n\nSir Francis Drake Boulevard roughly parallels the highway's length. If built, the highway was probably going to be called the \"Point Reyes Freeway\"; extra flyover ramps at the Sir Francis Drake Boulevard-U.S. 101 interchange suggest this.\n\nThe freeway was born due to an idea to develop west Marin County, a traditionally rural area, into a sprawling area not usually found in Marin County. With all the new residents, local roads would have been overburdened. Chief among them was Sir Francis Drake Boulevard, a two lane road from Olema to Fairfax before widening to 4 lanes as it passes through the Ross Valley.\n\nHowever, the development and freeway planning were stopped due to concerns about fragile ecosystems that urbanization would have damaged or destroyed. The animals, mostly egrets and the California red-legged frog, ended up being the main reason the freeway and redevelopment was defeated. There was another problem though: the plan put the entire area on the San Andreas Fault. The decision to not redevelop West Marin made the freeway unnecessary, and it was therefore scrapped. Now, this section is Sir Francis Drake Boulevard, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nState Route 252, which was proposed from I-5 to I-805 (going between SR 54 and SR 94), was unconstructed until it was deleted in 1994.\nState Route 257 is a proposed 19.6-mile (31.5 km) freeway from a proposed relocation of SR 34 east of Port Hueneme west and northwest around Oxnard to US 101 near Ventura. 5th Street and Harbor Boulevard has been identified as a traversable routing, but Caltrans has no plans to maintain the streets. It is proposed to be upgraded to a freeway.\n\nState Route 258 is an unsigned or unconstructed route which stretches 17 miles (27.4 km) along Western Avenue from the north end of SR 213 at I-405 near Torrance north to US 101 near Hollywood. It is proposed to be upgraded to a freeway, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over. The route concept report recommends that the alignment of the route be moved 3.5 mi westerly, and it to be from I-405 near LAX to US 101 near Hollywood.\n\nThe easternmost 3.5 miles (5.6 km) of State Route 270 are unconstructed, being maintained by the California Department of Parks and Recreation inside the Bodie State Historical Park. District 9 recommended that this stretch be deleted from the state highway system.\n\nState Route 276 is an 8.5-mile (13.7 km) unconstructed route from SR 198 near Three Rivers east to Sequoia National Park. It initially stretched further east through the park (though it was not part of the park at the time) to Mineral King, where the Walt Disney Company planned to build a recreational development. It was truncated to its current terminus in 1972. A route has been adopted. A locally maintained traversable route is Mineral King Road, or county road MTN 375, but it is not recommended for Caltrans to take it over, as this road features narrow, winding, steep grades.\n\nState Route 280 is an unsigned surface street and an unconstructed 3.1-mile freeway extension of Interstate 280 from its current north end in San Francisco at 5th Street to Interstate 80.\n\nThe majority of State Route 281 is unconstructed, stretching 14.0 miles (22.5 km) from the current end at Clear Lake northwest to SR 29 south of Lakeport. A locally-maintained traversable route is Soda Bay Road, and Caltrans is planning to take it over.\n\nState Route 285 was an unconstructed 8 mile route along West Street and Lake Davis Road from SR 70 in Portola to Grizzly Road. It was deleted in 1998 (due to problems with right of way and drainage), but was still listed in the 2002 report.\n\nState Route 345 is an almost entirely private dirt road in Humboldt County that is about 2.7 miles long. The road that is part of the State Route 345 is Singley Lane, which is the entire length of State Route 345. Route 345's northern end is Tompkins Hill Road and the southern end is US 101.\n\nState Route 380, a 4.4-mile (7.1 km) western extension of I-380, was to connect the end of I-380 at I-280 in San Bruno with SR 1 near Pacifica. The freeway was cancelled on March 29, 1979. A locally maintained traversable route is along Sneath Lane, Skyline Blvd and Sharp Park Road, but Caltrans has no plans to take it over.\n\nThe middle segment of State Route 480 was unconstructed from Doyle Drive to Van Ness Avenue. It was proposed as the Golden Gate Freeway in the mid 1950s but was ultimately canceled due to the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake as well as local opposition. The entire route was demolished and deleted in 1991 due to local opposition, approximately 2 years after the earthquake.\n\nState Route 605 is a 3-mile (4.8 km) unconstructed southern extension of I-605 from SR 22 to SR 1 near Seal Beach. It is roughly along Seal Beach Boulevard.\n\nThe southernmost segment of Interstate 710, 3.5 miles (5.6 km) from SR 1 south and west to SR 47 on Terminal Island recently added to the legislative definition, is currently being upgraded. At the northern end, 3.5 miles (5.6 km) from Valley Boulevard north to California Boulevard in Pasadena (where a freeway stub leading to an interchange with I-210 and SR 134 already exists) has been unconstructed for several decades due to community opposition, and Caltrans recently cancelled any further study of the route.\n\nThe westernmost segment of State Route 905, 3.2 miles (5.1 km) from I-5 southwest to the Mexican border is unconstructed, and Caltrans has no plans on pursuing this routing, particularly since there are no plans for a border crossing at this location, and it is an environmentally sensitive area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953752", "title": "Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education", "text": "Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education\n\nThe Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education () is a statutory and autonomous body established under the \"Maharashtra Secondary Boards Act\" 1965 (amended in 1977). Most important task of the board, among few others, is to conduct the SSC for 10th class and HSC for 12th class examinations. It is the most popular education board in terms of enrollment in high school in India only after the CBSE. It has been ranked 4th in the 'Futuristic Education Boards in India' among more than 35 educational boards in the country.\n\nThe Board came into existence on 1 January 1966 to regulate certain matters pertaining to secondary education in the state of Maharashtra, as \"Maharashtra State Secondary Education Boards\". The act was amended in 1976, and the name of the Board changed to its present name, \"Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education\".\n\nThe board is responsible for formation, and implementation of the rules and regulations in accordance to the guidelines set by the state as well as central boards. It is also in charge, autonomously, of, and implementation of the syllabus/curriculum of all the grades, textbooks, exam schedule, and type. The board is also responsible for creation of textbooks, scoring of the centralised tests, and conducting examinations fairly and providing unbiased justice in the event of dispute.\n\nThe Board conducts examination twice a year and the number of students appearing for the main examination is around 1,400,000 for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and 1,700,000 for Secondary School Certificate (SSC) every year.\n\nThe exams are usually held in the months of March,July and October every year; and results are given out usually in June, and January respectively. March marks the end of educational year, and June marks beginning of the new educational year in the state of Maharashtra.\n\nThere are nine divisional boards with the state to represent the state board. Their duties include, but not limited to:\n\nThere are nine divisional boards located at Amravati, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Konkan, Latur, Mumbai, Nagpur, Nashik, and Pune.\n\n\n[sscboardquestionpaper2020.blogspot.com]10th 2020 ssc board question papers"}
{"id": "1953770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953770", "title": "Te Urewera", "text": "Te Urewera\n\nTe Urewera is an area of mostly forested, sparsely-populated rugged hill-country in the North Island of New Zealand, much of it in the northern Hawke's Bay Region, and some in the eastern Bay of Plenty Region. Much of it lies in the Huiarau, Ikawhenua, and Maungapohatu ranges, and there are also lowland areas in the north. The Waikaremoana and Waikareiti lakes lie in the south-eastern part.\n\nSettlements include Ruatahuna and Ruatoki. The area is isolated, with State Highway 38 being the only major arterial road crossing it, running from Waiotapu near Rotorua via Murupara to Wairoa. \n\nIt is the \"rohe\" (historical home) of Tūhoe, a Māori iwi (tribe) known for their stance on Māori sovereignty. Because of its isolation and dense forest, Te Urewera remained largely untouched by British colonists until the early 20th century; in the 1880s it was still in effect under Māori control. Te Kooti, a Māori leader, found refuge from his pursuers among Tuhoe, with whom he formed an alliance. As with the King Country at the time, few Pākehā risked entering Te Urewera. In the early 20th century Rua Kenana Hepetipa formed a religious community at Maungapōhatu.\n\nThe name \"Te Urewera\" is a Māori phrase meaning \"The Burnt Penis\" (compare ; ).\n\nA large part of the area has a protected status. Te Urewera National Park, established in 1954 and disestablished in 2014, was replaced by a new legal entity, simply called Te Urewera. Te Urewera has legal personhood, and owns itself. All North Island native-forest bird species, except for the weka, live in the area. The crown fern (\"Blechnum discolor\") is a widespread understory plant.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953773", "title": "Eugene Nelson", "text": "Eugene Nelson\n\nEugene Nelson (1929–1999) was a radical American writer and labor leader.\n\nHe was born in Modesto, California. Growing up on farms, he twice saw his family's home and his garden taken over by bankers. He then lived in towns all over California, where his mother worked as a waitress. At age twelve, Nelson read the Boy Scout manual with its message of kindness to others. That motivated him to think seriously about the desirability of economic and political improvement. He also learned of the need for social change by reading \"Citizen Tom Paine\" by Howard Fast, and the poems and essays of Percy Shelley. While in high school, he made friends with Mexican-American and Chinese-American boys who lived in the slums.\n\nNelson won first place in a Lions Club speaking contest with a speech on world peace, and in the high-school poetry contest with a poem on Thomas Paine. At age sixteen, he read the poems of Walt Whitman and began writing poetry. He decided to spend his life as a wandering poet, but discovered that it is too cold in the U.S. much of the year to be able to sleep outdoors.\n\nAfter high school, Nelson worked for a while with Mexican immigrants thinning sugar beets near Stockton, California with a short-handled hoe. It was hard low-paid work, and made him sharply aware of the falsity of the myth that Mexicans are lazy. \"They were the warmest, friendliest and highest-spirited people I have ever known,\" he observed, \"and fueled my interest in things Mexican.\" Later he worked at forty or fifty different jobs, trying to get different and new perspectives on the world. He learned to speak Spanish fluently.\n\nEugene married a Mexican-American nurse, who gave birth to two daughters. \"We planned to raise an international family,\" he wrote wistfully, \"to show that different peoples can live together in harmony. Alas, we didn't have sufficient dedication or wherewithal to carry through on this... We had a successful marriage for several years, partly because we each made the decisions on alternate days.\"\n\nIn 1966 Nelson became Texas director of the first grape boycott by César Chávez's farmworker union. Later, in south Texas, he founded a union called the Independent Workers Association, which later affiliated with Chávez's United Farm Workers. A long strike and march to Austin resulted in improved pay and conditions for workers in south Texas. The police arrested Eugene on various spurious charges, including inciting a riot and threatening the lives of Texas Rangers. As a roving farmworkers' advocate and organizer, he also joined the Industrial Workers of the World (Wobblies).\n\nIn his later years, Nelson continued to write and research on topics of social and political controversy. \"I think the chief priorities today,\" he wrote in 1993, \"are preventing nuclear explosions; feeding the starving; lessening pollution and the exhaustion of the earth's resources; achieving a much lower birth rate; homes for all; and cooperative and participatory democracy (with compassion) in all aspects of life.\"\n\nIn 1999, Eugene Nelson died of a massive stroke in his retirement home in Haleiwa, Hawaii.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953774", "title": "Angami Naga", "text": "Angami Naga\n\nThe Angamis are a major Naga ethnic group native to the state of Nagaland in North-East India. The Angami Nagas are settled in Kohima District and Dimapur District of Nagaland and are also recognized as one of the ethnic groups in the state of Manipur. The Angamis are divided into four regions namely Chakhro Angami, Northern Angami, Southern Angami and Western Angami. The now separated Chakhesangs were previously known as the Eastern Angamis.\n\nThe territory of the Angamis is mostly located in the present Kohima and Dimapur District of Nagaland with a major part of its territory also lying in the Senapati District of Manipur. The territory is divided into four regions :\n\nThis region also known as \"Japfüphiki\" is bounded on the south by the Mao Nagas, on the southwest by the Maram Nagas, on the west by the Zeliangrongs, on the northwest by the Western Angamis, on the north by the Northern Angamis, on the northeast by the Chokri Chakhesangs and on the southeast by the Khezha Chakhesangs.\n\nThe towns and villages are :\n\nThis region is bounded by the Zeliangrongs on the west, on the southeast by the Southern Angamis, on the east by the Northern Angamis and on the northwest by the Chakhro Angamis.\n\nThe towns and villages are :\n\nThis region is bounded by the Western Angamis on the west, on the south by the Southern Angamis, on the east by the Chakhesang Nagas, the northeast by the Sumi Nagas, on the north by the Rengma Nagas and on the northwest by the Western Sumis.\n\nThe towns and villages are :\n\nMostly small towns and villages around Dimapur District with large towns and villages being Medziphema, Chümoukedima, Sovima, Rüzaphema, etc. Other villages include Piphema, Tsiepama, Vidima, Kirha, Pherima, etc.\n\nThe former Eastern Angamis have separated and are now recognised as the Chakhesang Nagas.\n\nThe Angami Nagas are hill people depending basically on cultivation and livestock-rearing. The Angamis are known for terraced wet-rice cultivation; because of this labor-intensive cultivation, land is the most important form of property among them. They are one of the only two groups of Nagas out of the seventeen who practice wet-rice cultivation on terraces made on the hill slopes. This allows them to cultivate the same plot year after year. They depend, to a very small extent, on slash-and-burn cultivation. \n\nSocial stratification is not observed in the Angami community. Traditionally, property was divided equally among sons with daughters also receiving a share; in modern families it is shared among children. The youngest male in the family inherits the parental home, \"Kithoki\", which means he is responsible for their care until they pass away.\n\nThe Angami Christians are composed of five major denominations: Baptist, Revival, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal and Seventh-day Adventist. Baptists constitute more than 80% of the total Angami Christian population and all the Baptist churches in their region are under the Angami Baptist Church Council.\n\nAlthough more than 98% of the Angamis are Christians, they are one of the last Naga tribes having an animist population. The Angami animists practice a religion known as Pfutsana. According to the 1991 census, there were 1,760 Angami practitioners, but 10 years later the figure had halved to 884. Currently there are several hundred adherents of the Pfutsana religion, scattered in nine villages of the southern Kohima district. A religious organization, 'Japfuphiki Pfutsana', was founded in 1987 to streamline indigenous religious practices among the Angamis. According to the 2011 Census, 98.62% of the Angami are Christian, 0.47% are Buddhist, 0.37% Hindu, 0.24% Muslim and 0.19% Pfutsana.\n\nThe Angamis celebrate a ten-day festival called \"Sekrenyi\" (sometimes also called \"Phousanyi\") in February. The term \"Sekrenyi\" literally means sanctification festival (= sanctification; = feast; = festival). The festival takes places after the harvest and falls on the twenty-fifth day of the month \"Kezei\" (January–February).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953778", "title": "Richard V. Gotti", "text": "Richard V. Gotti\n\nRichard V. Gotti (born 1942) is a capo in the Gambino crime family. \nRichard was born in 1942 to John Gotti, Sr. and his wife Fannie. Richard's brothers included former Gambino boss John, capo Gene, former boss Peter, and Vincent Gotti. They grew up in East New York, Brooklyn. Gotti has a son, Richard G. Gotti, who also belongs to the Gambino family. Gotti had a strange fascination with grass and would later work as a groundskeeper at Yankee Stadium. Gotti became a Gambino associate in 1962 and was first arrested in 1969 for statutory rape. Gotti was given the job of general manager for the Our Friends Social Club, at his brother John's urging. Gotti and an accomplice once tried to rob a high-stakes poker game in a Manhattan hotel room. Brandishing sawed-off shotguns, they demanded the players turn over their money. Hardly bothering to look up from their cards, the players told them to go to hell. The players then began throwing poker chips at them and chased them off down the hallway. \nBy 1988, Gotti had become a made man and by 1999 a caporegime. \n\nOn June 4, 2002, Richard was indicted on racketeering and extortion charges, mainly involving Gambino crimes at an International Longshoremen's Association local and the attempted extortion of actor Steven Seagal. On March 17, 2003, Gotti was convicted of extortion and money laundering. Gotti was later sentenced to 16 years in federal prison. He was released from prison on August 12, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953779", "title": "California State Route 7", "text": "California State Route 7\n\nState Route 7 (SR 7) is a state highway in the U.S. state of California, running from the Calexico East Port of Entry on the U.S.-Mexico border east of Calexico north to its terminus at Interstate 8 (I-8), where Orchard Road continues the route north towards Holtville. The route provides convenient access to the country of Mexico from I-8. The southern portion of the route opened in 1996, and the rest of the route connecting to I-8 opened in 2005.\n\nThe highway begins at the Calexico East Border Station, which is open from 6 am to 10 pm, seven days a week. Just north of the border, the highway splits into two roads to pass through the customs checkpoints before the two roads merge back together; the fork to the west is for cars, and the fork to the east is for commercial vehicles. SR 7 takes the western fork, which passes over the other fork at the northern end and merges into that highway. From here to I-8, SR 7 is an expressway known as Orchard Road. Before reaching I-8, SR 7 travels north and has an at-grade intersection with SR 98 and a few other roads. At its northern end, SR 7 turns into County Route S32 (still Orchard Road) as it intersects with I-8. The entire route runs through the Sonoran Desert and is built to expressway standards.\n\nThe route was constructed to allow commercial traffic to travel between Mexico and the United States. SR 7 is part of the California Freeway and Expressway System, and is part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration. In 2013, SR 7 had an annual average daily traffic (AADT) of 2,450 at the Calexico inspection station, and 15,900 at Menvielle Road along the spur, the latter of which was the highest AADT for the highway.\nSR 7 was added to the state highway system in 1990, and to the Freeway and Expressway System in 1998. The segment from the Mexican border to SR 98 was completed by March 1996 to expressway standards; this cost $9.1 million (about $ in dollars) to complete. However, the border crossing was not opened until December 2, 1996, due to delays in constructing the Mexican portion of the border crossing. Because of the 1994 economic crisis in Mexico, there was not enough money to complete the construction of the road leading up to the border facility on the Mexican side, as well as the Mexican border facility itself. The segment from SR 98 to I-8 began construction in March 2004 at a cost of $64.5 million (about $ in dollars); however, it was completed in mid-2005.\n\nCalifornia State Route 7 was used from 1964 to 1983 for the Long Beach Freeway in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, which is now Interstate 710.\n\nNote: Postmiles do not necessarily reflect current mileage. \"S\" refers to mileage on the spur route of SR 7 towards the border. \n\n"}
{"id": "1953782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953782", "title": "California State Route 11", "text": "California State Route 11\n\nState Route 11 (SR 11) is a state highway in San Diego County, California that is planned to connect SR 905 and SR 125 in Otay Mesa with the proposed new U.S.–Mexico border crossing at Otay Mesa East. Planning for the road began in the 1990s, and construction started in 2013. The portion from SR 905 to Enrico Fermi Drive was completed in 2016. There are plans for an interchange at Siempre Viva Road, as well converting the highway to a toll road once the entire route is completed.\n\nSR 11 is proposed to be a toll facility that will serve a new border crossing east of Otay Mesa, the Otay Mesa East Port of Entry. It will connect SR 905 and SR 125 to the Corredor Tijuana-Rosarito 2000 corridor that connects to Mexican Federal Highway 2D and Mexican Federal Highway 2 to Tecate, and Mexican Federal Highway 1D to Ensenada.\n\n, the portion from SR 905 to Enrico Fermi Drive is completed. On that segment, plans were to construct two interchanges at Enrico Fermi Drive and Siempre Viva Road as the proposed route curves to the southeast before reaching the border crossing. SR 11 will operate as a toll road once the entire route is completed.\n\nSR 11 was re-added to the state highway system in 1994. Four years later, several parties, including District 11 of Caltrans, the City and County of San Diego, the San Diego Association of Governments, and Tijuana were signatories to a Letter of Intent to build the border crossing. The route was added to the California Freeway and Expressway System in 1999. In 2009, Senate Bill 1486 was passed, and the presidential permit in 2008 allowed for the border crossing to be constructed. By one year later, several alternatives were considered, in terms of constructing some or even none of the interchanges, or removing the proposed toll on the route. State funding is allocated to cover much of the $400 million cost, which does not include the port of entry at another $350 million. The California Transportation Commission endorsed the project in January 2012, and approved the proposed freeway route that December.\n\nPlans are to construct the road in three stages: the interchange with SR 905 and the road to Enrico Fermi Drive, continuing the construction to the commercial vehicle facility, and building the border crossing itself. The first part of construction—connecting to SR 905—started on December 10, 2013 and was completed on March 19, 2016. The entire road was completed in 2017. Tolls are planned for the road in order to keep delays for crossing the border low, and this would vary depending on the current traffic at the other crossings in the area. The funds would go to both countries. Ramps from SR 11 westbound and eastbound to SR 125 northbound were completed on November 30, 2016, at a cost of over $21 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953790", "title": "Paepalanthus bromelioides", "text": "Paepalanthus bromelioides\n\nPaepalanthus bromelioides is a species in the flowering plant family Eriocaulaceae. This family is placed in the Poales, close to the Bromeliaceae, whose morphology this genus shares. \"Paepalanthus bromelioides\" is native to Cerrado, the area in which the carnivorous bromeliad \"Brocchinia reducta\" is also found. There is some speculation that the occasional insects trapped in the urn of this plant are evidence of its being a carnivorous plant.\n"}
{"id": "1953798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953798", "title": "Tetricus", "text": "Tetricus\n\nTetricus may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1953811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953811", "title": "Brendan Neiland", "text": "Brendan Neiland\n\nBrendan Neiland (born 23 October 1941 in Lichfield, Staffordshire) is an English artist best known for his paintings of reflections in modern city buildings. In 1992 he was elected into the Royal Academy (RA).\n\nNeiland is known for his interpretations of city life. His use of light and pictorial structure, using a spray-gun technique developed at the Royal College of Art, has seen Neiland likened to Georges Braque and Johannes Vermeer. His work is widely exhibited in major museums and galleries worldwide including, in Britain, the Victoria and Albert Museum, The Tate Gallery London, The Collections of the British Council and the Arts Council of Great Britain. He is represented by the Redfern Gallery and has had numerous shows internationally, including at the Galerie Belvedere in Singapore, who represent him in Singapore and the Far East.\n\nIn 1998 Neiland was appointed Keeper (Director) of the Royal Academy Schools, and was credited with revitalising what had been a struggling art school. In July 2004 he resigned as Keeper following newspaper reports concerning financial irregularities. Neiland was subsequently expelled from the membership following a vote by Royal Academicians. Neiland is the first artist to be stripped of his membership since James Barry in 1799.\n\nIt was reported that Neiland had been contributing his own consultancy earnings and funds he had raised independently towards the operation of the Royal Academy Schools. In doing so Neiland had not observed the budgetary discipline and financial controls required by the organisation. Neiland later said he had set aside the missing money, the fruit of his own fundraising efforts, to protect it from being sucked into a general RA fund. Other commentators speculated that his expulsion was connected to an internal power struggle over the governance of the RA.\n\nFellow Academician Sir Peter Blake resigned from the Academy in protest at Neiland's expulsion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953812", "title": "White Guardian", "text": "White Guardian\n\nThe White Guardian is a character in the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". He was played by Cyril Luckham, with the exception of a vocal message in \"The Stones of Blood\" which was performed by Gerald Cross.\n\nThe White Guardian is an anthropomorphic personification of order and the counterpart of the Black Guardian who represents evil, chaos and entropy. The two Guardians balance out the forces in the universe, although the Black Guardian seems to desire to upset the balance in favour of chaos and evil while the White Guardian prefers to maintain the status quo. The Guardians both appeared in Season 16 of the programme, where all six serials of that season were linked together in the quest for the Key to Time, an artifact of immense power that would give the wielder supreme power over all existence.\n\nThe White Guardian had concerns that the universe was descending into chaos. As a result, he asked the Doctor to find and assemble the Key to Time so that he might restore the balance of the universe. The Doctor was successful in this task, but the Black Guardian disguised himself as the White and tried to deceive the Doctor into handing the key over to him instead. The Doctor saw through the Black Guardian's ruse - due to the Guardian's lack of concern for Astra of Atrios, who was literally the sixth segment; the White Guardian would never have been so callous about the fate of a sentient being - and ordered the key to disperse, though he commented afterwards that the White Guardian should have been able to carry out his work while the key was assembled.\n\nThe Guardian next appeared briefly during \"Enlightenment\", the conclusion of the Black Guardian Trilogy, a story arc in which the evil Guardian attempted to force Turlough to kill the Doctor. The White Guardian appeared to the Doctor to warn him and, with the Black Guardian, to offer the prize of \"Enlightenment\" to the winner of a solar sail boat race across the Sol System.\n\nIn the BBC Books spin-off novel \"The Quantum Archangel\" by Craig Hinton, the White Guardian appears briefly with the Black Guardian and four others, who form a Council of Guardians that oversee reality. Although extremely powerful, the Guardians apparently cannot be seen to act directly, which is why they can only affect things through agents like the Doctor. The other four Guardians were first mentioned in \"Divided Loyalties\" by Gary Russell, which states that one of them is the Celestial Toymaker.\n\nThe White Guardian returns in the Big Finish audio dramas \"The Destroyer of Delights\" and \"The Chaos Pool\". Once again, The Key to Time is being sought, but this time with the Fifth Doctor and a sentient Tracer named Amy. The White Guardian is played by Jason Watkins, and is portrayed as rapidly losing his powers due to the decay of the six segments of the Key.\n"}
{"id": "1953815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953815", "title": "Ian McCulloch", "text": "Ian McCulloch\n\nIan McCulloch may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953816", "title": "Thomas Cooper, 1st Baron Cooper of Culross", "text": "Thomas Cooper, 1st Baron Cooper of Culross\n\nThomas Mackay Cooper, 1st Baron Cooper of Culross (24 September 1892 – 15 July 1956) was a Scottish Unionist Party politician, a judge and a historian, who had been appointed Lord Advocate of Scotland.\n\nCooper was the son of John Cooper, of Edinburgh, a civil engineer, and Margaret, daughter of John Mackay, of Dunnet, Caithness. In 1915 he applied to George Watson's College, Edinburgh, and the University of Edinburgh where he completed an MA in 1912 and a Law LLB.\n\nCooper was admitted a member of the Faculty of Advocates in 1915 and created a King's Counsel in 1927. He was the Unionist Member of Parliament (MP) for Edinburgh West from a by-election in 1935 to 1941. In 1935 he was appointed Solicitor General for Scotland and later that year he was appointed as Lord Advocate. He also became a Privy Counsellor in 1935. In 1941 he became Lord Justice Clerk with the judicial title of Lord Cooper and in 1947 Lord Justice General and Lord President of the Court of Session.\n\nHe resigned in 1954 and was made a peer as Baron Cooper of Culross, of Dunnet in the County of Caithness.\n\nCooper was married to Margaret Mackay.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1936, his proposers being John Alexander Inglis, Thomas Henry Holland, Thomas Hudson Beare and Ernest Wedderburn. He served as the Society's Vice President from 1945 to 1948.\n\nLord Cooper of Culross died in July 1956, aged 62, at which point the barony became extinct. He is buried with his parents near the centre of the SW section of the original Grange Cemetery in south Edinburgh.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953818", "title": "Eliza Acton", "text": "Eliza Acton\n\nEliza Acton (17 April 1799 – 13 February 1859) was an English food writer and poet who produced one of Britain's first cookery books aimed at the domestic reader, \"Modern Cookery for Private Families\". The book introduced the now-universal practice of listing ingredients and giving suggested cooking times for each recipe. It included the first recipes in English for Brussels sprouts and for spaghetti. It also contains the first recipe for what Acton called \"Christmas pudding\"; the dish was normally called plum pudding, recipes for which had appeared previously, although Acton was the first to put the name and recipe together.\n\nActon was born in 1799 in Sussex. She was raised in Suffolk where she ran a girls' boarding school before spending time in France. On her return to England in 1826 she published a collection of poetry and released her cookery book in 1845, aimed at middle class families. Written in an engaging prose, the book was well received by reviewers. It was reprinted within the year and several editions followed until 1918, when Longman, the book's publisher, took the decision not to reprint. In 1857 Acton published \"The English Bread-Book for Domestic Use\", a more academic and studious work than \"Modern Cookery\". The work consisted of a history of bread-making in England, a study of European methods of baking and numerous recipes.\n\nIn the later years of its publication, \"Modern Cookery\" was eclipsed by the success of Isabella Beeton's bestselling \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" (1861), which included several recipes plagiarised from Acton's work. Although \"Modern Cookery\" was not reprinted in full until 1994, the book has been admired by English cooks in the second part of the 20th century, and influenced many of them, including Elizabeth David, Jane Grigson, Delia Smith and Rick Stein.\n\nEliza Acton was born on 17 April 1799 in Battle, Sussex, and was baptised at her local parish church on 5 June. She was the eldest of six sisters and three brothers born to John Acton, a brewer, and his wife Elizabeth, \"\" Mercer. By 1800 the family had moved to Ipswich, Suffolk, where they lived in a house adjoining the St. Peter's Brewery, where John took employment running Trotman, Halliday & Studd, the company that owned the brewery. In 1811 Trotman died, and John was offered the opportunity to become the junior partner in the firm; he accepted and the business was renamed Studd, Halliday and Acton. Sheila Hardy, in her biography of Eliza, considers it likely that John would have borrowed heavily to buy himself into the business.\n\nIn 1817 Acton, with a Miss Nicolson—about whom no further information is known—opened a \"boarding school for young ladies\" in Claydon, just outside Ipswich. In 1819 Acton left the school and opened another in September with her sisters, this time at nearby Great Bealings; the school moved to Woodbridge in 1822 and had probably closed by 1825.\n\nEarly in her life Acton spent some time in France—either in Paris or the south of the country—but it is not known when she left England; Hardy considers it likely that she travelled in 1823. The food historian Elizabeth Ray, writing in the \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\", states that Acton travelled abroad for the good of her health, because she had a weak constitution. It is possible that she was pregnant when she left for Paris and that she went abroad to give birth to an illegitimate daughter. The food writers Mary Aylett and Olive Ordish theorise that Acton's child was raised by Sarah, Eliza's sister. The two observe that \"there is no evidence for this, other than family tradition\". Hardy dismisses the theory, stating that Acton did not have a sister called Sarah, let alone one who was married (none of Acton's sisters were married); she also observes that she has found no baptismal or census record that would account for a child of the right age. While in France Acton had an unhappy relationship with a French army officer; it is possible there was an engagement, but if so it was broken off. She returned to England, probably in 1826.\n\nActon had been writing poetry since at least 1822, as she wrote that year on the bottom of one of her poems. She wrote at least one while in France, \"On Approaching Paris\", which she dated 1826. When she returned to England, she arranged for a collection to be published by Longman. As was the practice for publishers at the time, Acton had to provide the names of subscribers—those who had pre-paid for a copy—who were listed inside the work; nearly all came from Suffolk. 328 copies were printed in October 1826 and a reprint was needed within a month. She subsequently wrote some longer poems, including \"The Chronicles of Castel Framlingham\", which was printed in the \"Sudbury Chronicle\" in 1838, and \"The Voice of the North\", which was written in 1842 on the occasion of Queen Victoria's first visit to Scotland. Other poems were published in a local periodical, the \"Sudbury Pocket Book\".\n\nIn 1827 John Acton was declared bankrupt, and the company in which he was a partner was dissolved; one of his business partners was involved in the claim against him. The Commissioner of Bankruptcy ordered John to surrender himself to the Office of the Commissioners to disclose his wealth, but he fled to France. In his absence his family moved into Bordyke House, near Tonbridge, Kent, where Elizabeth Acton, Eliza's mother, turned the large building into a boarding house for upper class guests, particularly for those who wanted to visit Royal Tunbridge Wells and enjoy the spa facilities there. It is likely that Elizabeth left Bordyke House around 1841, although her daughter remained in residence.\n\nAt some point—Hardy considers 1835; Aylett and Ordish consider 1837—Acton sent a further set of poems to Longman for publishing. The company reportedly declined the poems, and suggested that she write a cookery book instead; Hardy considers the story apocryphal. By her own account, Acton took ten years to develop her cookery book, which was published in January 1845 under the title \"Modern Cookery in all its Branches\". The work was aimed at the English middle classes; in the preface she wrote:\n\nThe details of domestic economy, in particular, are no longer sneered at as beneath the attention of the educated and accomplished; and the truly refined, intelligent, and high-minded women of England have ceased, in these days of comparative good sense, to consider their acquaintance with such details as inconsistent with their dignity or injurious to their attractions.\n\n\"Modern Cookery\" consists of mainly English recipes, although Acton labelled several of them \"French\". A chapter covers curries (and potted meats), and gives recipes for Eastern \"chatneys\" (chutney), treating them as a naturalised Anglo-Indian dish, rather than of solely Indian origin, according to the professor of English literature Susan Zlotnick. The book contains the first recipe for brussels sprouts, and the first use in an English cookery book of the word \"spaghetti\"—which she spelled \"\". It also contains the first recipe for what Acton called \"Christmas pudding\"; the dish was normally called plum pudding, recipes for which had appeared previously, although Acton was the first to put the name and recipe together.\n\nActon's layout for each recipe was for the description of the cooking process followed by a list of ingredients and the total cooking time required for the preparation of the dish. With the inclusion of timings and ingredients, \"Modern Cookery\" differed from other cookery books, and was a development of Acton's own. Acton wrote that each recipe had been cooked and \"proved beneath our own roof and under our own personal inspection\". The food historian Sarah Freeman describes the cooking instructions Acton produced as being written \"so conscientiously, and with such gastronomic sensitivity, that ... [\"Modern Cookery\"] was as much a work of art on food as it was functional\".\n\nThe reviews for \"Modern Cookery\" were positive, and the critic from \"The Morning Post\" considered it \"unquestionably the most valuable compendium of the art that has yet been published\". The review in \"The Spectator\" stated that the order of the book was \"very natural\", while \"the methods are clearly described, and seem founded on chemical principles\"; the reviewer for the \"Kentish Gazette\" also commended the clarity of the instructions, and the inclusion of ingredients and timings. The unnamed critic for \"The Atlas\" described the layout for the recipes to be \"excellent\" and, in a positive review in \"The Exeter and Plymouth Gazette\", praise was given to \"the intelligibility of the instructions which are given\", which contrasted with other cookery books.\n\nA second edition of \"Modern Cookery\" was released in May 1845, containing corrections and updates; Longmans also released this version in the US, through the Philadelphia company of Lea & Blanchard. The book sold well, and in June 1845 Longmans sent Acton £67 11s 2d as her share of the profits. In subsequent years she earned £162 in 1846 and £189 in 1847, when she was being paid half the profits; in 1849 she dropped to quarter of the profits and received £83.\n\nSome time after \"Modern Cookery\" was published, Acton moved from Tonbridge to Hampstead, north west London. She became the cookery correspondent for the weekly magazines \"The Ladies' Companion\" and \"Household Words\", and began writing research for a book on nourishment for the ill, \"Invalid Cookery\". She interrupted her research to write a new edition of \"Modern Cookery\". This was published in 1855, and renamed as \"Modern Cookery for Private Families\", the name by which it is best known. This version contains an additional chapter named \"Foreign and Jewish Cookery\"; the Jewish recipes are from Ashkenazi cuisine.\n\nSuch was the success of Acton's first editions of the book, it was increasingly copied by other cookery writers. In the preface to the 1855 edition, Acton wrote of \"the unscrupulous manner in which large portions of my volume have been appropriated by contemporary authors, without the slightest acknowledgement of the source from which they have been derived\". She was in increasingly poor health during the 1850s and wrote in her preface that she was \"suffering at present too severe a penalty for ... over-exertion\"; this toil, she continued, was \"so completely at variance with all the previous habits of my life, and ... so injurious in its effects\".\n\nActon had been disappointed that she had not been able to add as much information into the 1855 edition about bread-making as she wanted to, but decided, despite her health, that she would take on the subject in a new work, \"The English Bread-Book for Domestic Use\". Published in May 1857, this was not a recipe book along the same lines as \"Modern Cookery\", but is described by Hardy as \"a serious, scientific study ... much darker in tone than her previous work\". It consists of a history of bread-making in England, improvements made to the bread-making process in Europe, an examination of the ingredients used and recipes of different types of bread. Acton also included information about the adulteration of bread by flour millers and bakers of the time, which included the addition of alum and what she called \"other deleterious substances\". The food writer Elizabeth Ray observes that the book was less successful than \"Modern Cookery\", and was not reprinted until 1990.\n\nActon, who suffered from poor health for much of her life, died at home on 13 February 1859, at the age of 59. She was buried four days later at St John-at-Hampstead church, London.\n\nLee Christine O'Brien, in her examination of 19th-century women's poetry, considers that Acton \"participated in a poetic field the richness of which eclipsed her own output\". O'Brien sees humour and humanity in some of Acton's poetry. Aylett and Ordish class Acton's poetry as being written in a romantic style; they consider the work to be \"accomplished rather than inspired\", although it is also \"derivative and often banal\" and clichéd. Hardy identifies themes repeated through Acton's poems of the praise of nature and a pleasure in twilight; most of them were on the theme of unrequited love and several may relate to her feelings towards her possible former fiancée. Hardy also sees in the poems an \"almost masculine intensity and depth of feeling\". O'Brien sees humour in some of Acton's poetry, and cites \"Come To My Grave\"—a work about \"a mildly acerbic and witty potential revenant, musing on revenge\"—as a parody of a love lyric with Gothic romantic overtones.\n\n<poem>\nCome to my grave when I am gone,\nAnd bend a moment there alone;\nIt will not cost thee much of pain\nTo trample on my heart again–\nOr, if it would, for ever stay\nFar distant from my mouldering clay:\nI would not wound thy breast to prove\nE'en its most deep, 'remorse of love.'\nThe grave should be a shrine of peace\nWhere all unkindly feelings cease;–\nThough thou wilt calmly gaze on mine\nI would not live the hour to see,\nWhich doom'd my glance to rest on thine:–\nThat moment's bitter agony\nWould bid the very life-blood start\nBack, and congeal around my heart!–\n</poem>\n\nO'Brien sees that, through the high quality of Acton's prose, \"Modern Cookery\" is a unique cultural document. As the food writer Elizabeth David writes,\n\n[Acton's] ... book was the final expression ... of pre-Industrial England's taste in food and attitude to cookery. The dishes she describes and the ingredients which went into them would have been familiar to Jane Austen and Lord Byron, to Fanny Burnley and Tobias Smollett.\n\nMany of the dishes Acton describes belong, according to David, to the 18th century and, with increasing industrialisation and urbanisation of the 19th century, the staple foods described were already being replaced. David cites the example of Bird's Custard Powder, launched in 1840, as an example of the radical changes being introduced to cooking. Acton adopted some of the changes in food science into the 1855 re-write of the book, including the developments of Justus von Liebig—the developer of the Oxo brand beef stock cube—and William Gregory, Liebig's pupil and translator.\n\nActon, in her preface to \"Modern Cookery\", writes that her \"first and best attention has been bestowed on ... what are usually termed plain English dishes\" for her recipes, and Christopher Driver, the journalist and food critic, considers the book \"as English as ... [its] eighteenth-century predecessors\". Elizabeth Ray observes that while Acton \"is basically a very English cook\", many of the recipes are labelled as French dishes, and foreign food is given its own chapter. These are recipes from the cuisines of Indian, Syria, Turkey, Italy, Germany, Portugal, Mauritius, Switzerland and the West Indies. Acton was willing to learn from foreign food cultures, and wrote \"Without adopting blindly foreign modes in anything merely because they \"are\" foreign, surely we should be wise to learn from other nations\". Similarly, \"The English Bread Book\" was focused on British bread and, in her preface, Acton wrote \"Bread is a first necessity of life to the great mass of the English people; being in part the food of all—the chief food of many—and almost the sole food of many more.\" She devotes a whole chapter to the approach to bread and bread-making in France, Germany and Belgium, and the book contains recipes for German pumpernickel, French baguettes, Italian polenta bread, Turkish rolls and Indian breads.\n\nThe food historian Bob Ashley identifies that the strongest theme in \"Modern Cookery\" is economy in food, although this is also tempered by Acton's advice to reject dubious ingredients. In her preface to the book, Acton writes that \"It may be safely averred that good cookery is the best and truest economy, turning to full account every wholesome article of food, and converting into palatable meals what the ignorant either render uneatable or throw away in disdain\". She provides a recipe for \"Elegant Economist's Pudding\", which uses left-over Christmas pudding; when giving a recipe for \"Superlative Hare Soup\", she also provides one for \"A Less Expensive Hare Soup\". The social historian John Burnet observes that although the dishes were supposedly aimed at middle-class families of modest income, the book contains recipes that include truffles in champagne, soles in cream and a pie of venison and hare.\n\nThe food writer Alan Davidson considers \"Modern Cookery\" to be \"among the most elegantly written (and practical) cookery books ever published\". Nicola Humble, in her book on the history of British cookery books, writes that Acton provides \"the quirky, confident perspective of the expert\" in text that is \"alive with adjectives and opinions ... the prose enthuses and evokes\". In 1968 Elizabeth David wrote that Acton's recipes were both illuminating and decisive. Examining a 100-word paragraph in \"Modern Cookery\" for instructions on beating egg whites for a sponge cake, David considers it superior to an eight-page piece on the same topic in the 1927 work \"La bonne cuisine de Madame E. Saint-Ange\".\n\nThere is humour in Acton's work, particularly when reporting on a recipe going wrong. Her recipe for Publisher's Pudding, which contains cognac, macaroons, cream and almonds, \"can scarcely be made \"too rich\"\", while the Poor Author's Pudding is made with milk, bread, eggs and sugar, and is a more simple dish. Similarly, in her recipe for Superior Pine-Apple Marmalade, she writes that if the mixture is placed onto a direct heat it \"will often convert what would otherwise be excellent preserve, into a strange sort of compound, for which it is difficult to find a name\".\n\n\"Modern Cookery\" remained in print until 1918, when its popularity waned in the face of competition from other books and Longmans took the decision not to republish. Acton's works remained out of print until 1968 when a selection of her recipes was collected into \"The Best of Eliza Acton\", edited by Elizabeth Ray and including an introduction by Elizabeth David. \"Modern Cookery\" was not reprinted in full until 1994, although \"The English Bread Book\" was reprinted in 1990.\n\nIn 1857, when Isabella Beeton began writing the cookery column for \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\", many of the recipes were plagiarised from \"Modern Cookery\". In 1861 Isabella's husband, Samuel, published \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\", which also contained several of Acton's recipes. Isabella Beeton's biographer Kathryn Hughes gives as examples one third of Beeton's soup dishes and a quarter of her fish recipes, which are all taken from Acton. In her works, Isabella Beeton partly followed the new layout of Acton's recipes, although with a major alteration: whereas \"Modern Cookery\" provides the method of cooking followed by a list of the required ingredients, the recipes in \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\" and \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" list the timings and components before the cooking process.\n\nThe food historian Bee Wilson considers many modern cookery writers to be indebted to Acton and her work. Elizabeth David wrote in 1977 that \"The English Bread Book\" was a major influence on and source for her own \"English Bread and Yeast Cookery\", and that she owes Acton a debt for it; David also describes \"Modern Cookery\" as \"the greatest cookery book in our language\". The cook Delia Smith is of a similar opinion, and describes Acton as \"the best cookery writer in the English language\". The cookery writer Jane Grigson was influenced by Acton, particularly when she wrote \"English Food\" (1974), while the chef Rick Stein included her \"Soles Stewed in Cream\" in his cookery book \"Seafood Lovers' Guide\" (2000).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953826", "title": "Puerto Francisco de Orellana", "text": "Puerto Francisco de Orellana\n\nPuerto Francisco de Orellana (), also known as El Coca (), is the capital of province of Orellana in eastern Ecuador. The city is located in the Amazon Rainforest at the confluence of the Coca River and the Napo River (the smaller Payamino River also merges into the Napo in the city). It has a population of 45,163 inhabitants as of 2010. It is visited by tourists going into the Amazonian forest and is served by the Francisco de Orellana Airport.\n\nThe city is named for Francisco de Orellana, who explored the confluence of the Coca River and the Napo River. It is believed that he set sail from the current location of the town eventually making his way into the Amazon River seeing the \"Amazon\" or tribes in which the women also fought. Eventually Francisco de Orellana made it to the Atlantic. He made a second expedition leaving but died on the Amazon delta unable to find a way through.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953848", "title": "Coca River", "text": "Coca River\n\nThe Coca River is a river in eastern Ecuador. It is a tributary of the Napo River. The two rivers join in the city of Puerto Francisco de Orellana. The Payamino River also merges into the Napo River in the city, but at a point about upstream from the Coca–Napo confluence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953849", "title": "Common footman", "text": "Common footman\n\nThe common footman (\"Manulea lurideola\") is a moth of the family Erebidae. The species was first described by Johann Leopold Theodor Friedrich Zincken in 1817. It is distributed throughout Europe and east through the Palearctic to Lake Baikal.\nThis species has a wingspan of 31–38 mm. The forewings are grey with a yellowish-buff streak along the costa. The hindwings are a uniform cream colour. Like other footmen, it rests with its wings wrapped around its body. (The common name footman comes from a supposed resemblance to the uniform of a footman.)\n\nWingspan 31–38 mm. Forewing broadened towards the outer margin, bright glossy lead grey with broad, regular, light yellow costal band, somewhat dulled at the apex, and pure yellow fringes; hindwing, head and neck and anal tuft of male ivory yellow. Beneath, the forewing is only suffused with sooty grey at the base and on the disc, so that a broad outer border is pale yellow. Hindwing pale yellow with a slightly dark costal margin.\n\nThis moth flies at night in July and August and is attracted to light and nectar-rich flowers.\n\nLarva dark lilac grey with black dorsal line and black head, bearing black and yellow hairs; subdorsal lines black, stigma-line orange. It usually feeds on various lichens including \"Parmelia\", although it has also been recorded feeding on buckthorn and oak. The species overwinters as a larva, hibernating, until the end of May. Pupa reddish brown and glossy. According to Schmidt the larvae prefer the trunks of beeches and oaks, but (Seitz) \"I often beat the moths out of the lower branches of high, solitary larches in the Alpine valleys; locally very common, especially in the mountains\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953853", "title": "Piazza del Duomo, Milan", "text": "Piazza del Duomo, Milan\n\nPiazza del Duomo (\"Cathedral Square\") is the main \"piazza\" (city square) of Milan, Italy. It is named after, and dominated by, the Milan Cathedral (the \"Duomo\"). The piazza marks the center of the city, both in a geographic sense and because of its importance from an artistic, cultural, and social point of view. Rectangular in shape, with an overall area of 17,000 m (about 183,000 sq ft), the piazza includes some of the most important buildings of Milan (and Italy in general), as well some of the most prestigious commercial activities, and it is by far the foremost tourist attraction of the city.\n\nWhile the piazza was originally created in the 14th century and has been gradually developing ever since (along with the Duomo, which took about six centuries to complete), its overall plan, in its current form, is largely due to architect Giuseppe Mengoni, and dates to the second half of the 19th century. The monumental buildings that mark its sides, with the main exception of the Duomo itself and the Royal Palace, were introduced by Mengoni's design; the most notable of Mengoni's addition to the piazza is the Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II arcade.\n\nThe origins of Piazza del Duomo can be traced back to the vision of Azzone Visconti (lord of Milan from 1329 to 1339). In 1330, Azzone ordered the demolition of the taverns that circled the two central churches of Milan of the time, the \"Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore\" and the \"Basilica of Santa Tecla\", to create a market square, called \"Piazza dell'Arengo\", which is the first incarnation of what is now Piazza del Duomo. The piazza was named after the arengario (also known as the \"broletto\"), i.e., the seat of the local government. None of the original buildings of Piazza dell'Arengario has survived.\n\nAzzone's successor Gian Galeazzo Visconti further enlarged the piazza, ordering the demolition of the bishop's house (in 1385) and the baptistery \"San Giovanni alle Fonti\" (in 1387). In the following decades, nevertheless, the piazza did not develop much, but one of the two \"basilicae\", Santa Maria Maggiore, was demolished, as the works for the construction of the Duomo had begun. In 1458, Pope Pius II granted Francesco Sforza and the Veneranda fabbrica del Duomo di Milano (the company that was responsible for the construction of the Duomo) the authorization to demolish Santa Tecla to create a larger square that would fit the Duomo's majesty. Somewhat preposterously, the basilica was partially rebuilt in the following years, to be demolished again in the mid-16th century.\n\nThe next major modification of the piazza occurred in the second half of the 18th century, when architect Giuseppe Piermarini thouroghly redesigned the former arengario into the modern Royal Palace; a side effect of Piermarini's design was that of creating another smaller piazza, adjacent to Piazza del Duomo, and thus actually enlarging the open space area.\n\nIn the 19th century, architect Giulio Beccaria was hired by Ferdinand I of Austria to redesign the piazza again. Beccaria's main contribution to the urban planning of the area was the construction of the palace that thereafter would serve as the headquarters of the Fabbrica del Duomo, located to the south-east of the cathedral.\n\nA major twist in the piazza's evolution came about after the Second Italian War of Independence (1859). In 1860, the government of the city proclaimed the intention to radically redesign the piazza and to create a new major avenue to celebrate King Victor Emmanuel II of Italy. Several architectural design competitions followed, whereby the plan of the new piazza gradually took place. The restructuring was eventually commissioned to architect Giuseppe Mengoni, and the works began in 1865. From 1865 to 1873, based on Mengoni's design, the piazza was first enlarged (an entire neighborhood, the \"Rebecchino\", was demolished for this purpose, as well as the popular porticated building called Coperto dei Figini) and then acquired most of its modern landmarks, including the Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II arcade (built in 1864-1867) and the two \"Palazzi dei Portici\" (\"Portico Palaces\") that mark its southern and northern boundaries.\n\nMengoni's work, in any case, was not hitchless. The company that was responsible for the works, City of Milan Improvements Company of London, eventually experienced financial problems, so that the government of Milan had to take charge. Part of the area of the Galleria was sold to private owners, with the obligation to complete the works according to Mengoni's design. In 1875, when the two Portico Palaces were finally completed, new funding problems endangered the realization of the two triumph arches that were included in the design; Mengoni eventually decided to fund the construction himself. When Mengoni died in 1877, only one of the arches, the one at the entrance of the Galleria, was completed; the construction of second arch was abandoned. Mengoni actually died in Piazza del Duomo, falling from a scaffolding while he was supervising the works.\n\nIn 1896, the statue of King Victor Emmanuel II of Italy was inaugurated in the centre of the piazza. This marked the completion of the restructuring initiated by the city authorities in 1860.\nThe last major change to the piazza occurred during the Fascist era, when the Arengario was built in the place where Mengoni had planned to create a second triumph arch, opposite across the square to the Galleria. The Arengario had the main purpose of letting the local podestà (or Benito Mussolini himself) make speeches to the population; it now houses a museum on 20th-century art.\n\nIt will host the closing ceremony of the 2026 Winter Paralympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953859", "title": "Kveldssanger", "text": "Kveldssanger\n\nKveldssanger (translated as \"\"Twilight Songs\"\") is the second studio album by Norwegian band Ulver, issued in March, 1996 via Head Not Found. The album was recorded at Endless Lydstudio, Oslo, Norway in the summer and autumn of 1995, with Kristian Romsøe as engineer and co-producer.\n\nFor \"Kveldssanger\", the second part of what has become known as Ulver’s “\"Black Metal Trilogie\",” the band expanded upon the quiet, folk-influenced acoustic elements present in their debut album, \"Bergtatt\". Incorporating classical guitars, cello and choral chamber chants overlaid with subtle orchestral landscapes - eschewing any black metal elements - the album was a drastic contrast to \"Bergtatt\" and other black metal albums of the time, whilst still retaining a level of atmospheric and folklore-themed lyrics. Vocalist Kristoffer Rygg has since remarked that \"Kveldssanger\" was an \"immature attempt at making a classical album\", yet he felt the content was strong when his age and that of the other band members at the time was taken into account. At the time of its release the album was praised for its atmosphere, evoking a feeling of \"quiet, eerie solitude\".\n\nReflecting on \"Kveldssanger\" with Rob Hughes for Unrestrained Magazine in 2007, Rygg commented, \"I was just the singer, but I partook in the composition as well. I made some of the riffs, but I can't play the guitar very well. A lot of those songs were developed in the studio with basically a riff and a click track and layering the guitars. When a second theme came on top of the first theme we could kind of drop the first theme and develop on the second theme, and that's how we pieced the whole thing together. So it was, in a way, experimental. It was following its own natural logic, so to speak. We really didn't have a lot composed before we went into the studio, so already then we were using the studio as an instrument — as we still do — even though we had a more limited palette. And of course we had a different set of influences, or a narrower set of influences.\"\n\nAllMusic writer William York commented, “This style was hinted at during some of the acoustic interludes on their previous album, \"Bergtatt\", but here it has been more fully developed into actual songs with thoughtful, though sparse, arrangements. On some of the songs, Garm's vocals are heavily overdubbed to create a choir-like effect. He continues, \"Listening to \"Kveldssanger\", it is hard to picture this album being made by a group still in their teens, let alone by one whose next album would yield the savage black metal of \"Nattens madrigal\". \"Kveldssanger\" stands as a bold and successful effort, one that helped certify Ulver's reputation as one of the leading black metal bands, even if it ironically doesn't involve any actual metal.\"\n\nLee Steadham described the album as “a passionately relayed Norwegian folk excursion, performed entirely on acoustic instruments. Vocals tend towards an obscure hymnal, almost Gregorian warble, though under-utilized, they're richly textured and melodiously delivered, complemented by an amalgamation of layered guitars, flutes, and cellos. There are literally zero modern equivalents to this pensive mood-setting oddity as rarely are such blatantly classical aspirations heard within the blackened subgenre. A somber and skillfully executed alternative to the norm; the entire affair just reeks of class.”\n\nDutch webzine Evening Of Flight added, “As said, Ulver's first three albums form a thematic and musical whole, and to be sure, \"Kveldssanger\" should not be seen as separate from the other two, both of which are classic albums in their own right. \"Kveldssanger\" can be said to have left the biggest mark on dark music since then. It is hard to imagine the music of projects like Vàli, October Falls, Musk Ox, Empyrium, etc. without this milestone. Indeed, many of these musicians would not pretend otherwise. While many have emulated this style however, some quite felicitously I might add, I have yet to hear an album that truly matches \"Kveldssanger\" in all its honesty, refinement, and originality.”\n\n"}
{"id": "1953866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953866", "title": "Thomas Hamilton, 1st Earl of Haddington", "text": "Thomas Hamilton, 1st Earl of Haddington\n\nThomas Hamilton, 1st Earl of Haddington (1563 – 29 May 1637), designated before his peerage as 'of Drumcarny, Monkland, and Binning', was a Scottish administrator, Lord Advocate, judge, and Lord Lieutenant of Haddingtonshire.\n\nThe son of Sir Thomas Hamilton of Priestield, a judge of the Court of Session as Lord Prestonfield, by his first wife Elizabeth, daughter of James Heriot of Trabroun, Haddingtonshire. His younger brother was Andrew Hamilton, Lord Redhouse.\n\nThomas was educated in Paris. He became known as Thomas Hamilton of Drumcarny.\n\nHe was admitted an Advocate in 1587, a Lord of Session in 1592, appointed Lord Advocate in 1596, Lord Clerk Register in 1612, and in 1616 became Lord President of the Court of Session.\n\nOn 22 November 1596 James VI ordered him to try Jonet Garvie at an assize for witchcraft.\n\nHe was on very friendly terms with James VI, his legal talents being useful to the king, and he was one of the eight men called the Octavians who were appointed to manage the finances of Scotland. Widely regarded as an able administrator, Hamilton was entrusted with a large share in the government of Scotland when James removed to London in 1603. In 1612 he was appointed Lord Clerk Register to the Privy Council to succeed John Skene. After the death of James VI the earl resigned his offices, but served Charles I as Keeper of the Privy Seal of Scotland. Thomas was referred familiarly to his friends as 'Tam o' the Cowgate', his Edinburgh residence being in that street.\n\nOn 19 November 1613, he was created a Lord of Parliament as Lord Binning. Further, on 20 March 1619, he was created Earl of Melrose. Upon the death of the first and last Viscount of Haddington (on 28 February 1626), the king agreed to exchange the title of Earl of Melrose to that of Earl of Haddington, with the original precedence and remainder to heirs male bearing the surname and Arms of Hamilton. In 1628 The Earl of Haddington purchased the Tyninghame estate for 200,000 merks.\n\nIn 1624, under the title of Thomas Hamilton, Earl of Melrose, he purchased Balgone House south-east of North Berwick.\n\nThe 1st Earl of Haddington married, (1) c. 1588, Margaret (d. Dec 1596), only child of James Borthwick of Newbyres, by whom he had two daughters. He remarried (2) in 1597, Margaret Foulis (d. 31 May 1609), daughter of James Foulis of Colinton, and sister of the financier Thomas Foulis. Their children include:\n\n\nThe 1st Earl married again (3) on 3 September 1613, Julian (buried 30 March 1637), daughter of Sir Thomas Ker of Ferniehirst, and widow of Sir Patrick Hume of Polwarth, by whom he had another son:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953871", "title": "Yle TV1", "text": "Yle TV1\n\nYle TV1 (Yleisradio - Finnish Broadcasting Company TV1) is a Finnish television channel owned and operated by Finnish public broadcaster Yle. It is the first and oldest television channel in Finland. More than 70% of channel's programs are documentaries, news or educational programmes. Its name is commonly referred to as \"Ykkönen\"; the name is derived from Yle's ownership of channel spots 1 and 2 by default in Finland.\n\nThe channel started test transmissions on 13 August 1957, and began regular broadcasts on 1 January 1958 as Suomen Televisio. When Yleisradio took over Tampere-based Tamvisio in 1964, Suomen Televisio was renamed \"TV-ohjelma 1\" and Tamvisio became \"TV-ohjelma 2\" – and when they started broadcasting in colour in the 1970s, they were rebranded again, as TV1 and TV2.\n\nYle TV1 started using a new logo on 30 March 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953872", "title": "Yle TV2", "text": "Yle TV2\n\nYle TV2 (; ) is a Finnish television channel owned and operated by Yle.\n\nTV2 was launched in 1965 as the successor to the former television channels and , and broadcasts public service programming, sports, drama, children's, youth, and music programmes.\n\nA HD simulcast of Yle TV2 begun broadcasting in January 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953880", "title": "John A. Gotti", "text": "John A. Gotti\n\nJohn Angelo \"Junior\" Gotti (born February 14, 1964) is an American former mobster who was acting boss of the Gambino crime family from 1992 to 1999 after his father, John J. Gotti, was sent to prison. Junior himself was imprisoned for racketeering in 1999. Between 2004 and 2009, Gotti was a defendant in four racketeering trials which all ended in mistrials. In January 2010, federal prosecutors announced that they would no longer seek to prosecute Gotti for those charges. He has been referred to as \"Teflon Jr.\" for evading conviction like his father.\n\nGotti was born in the Queens borough of New York City on February 14, 1964, to Italian-American mobster, John J. Gotti and Victoria DiGiorgio Gotti, whose father was of Italian descent, and mother was of half-Italian half-Russian ancestry. Gotti was raised in a two-story house in Howard Beach, New York, with his four siblings, which include sisters Victoria Gotti, and Angel, and brothers Frank and Peter. Angelo Ruggiero was his godfather and middle namesake, whom he and his siblings considered an uncle. He attended New York Military Academy as a member of the Class of 1983.\n\nAfter graduating school, Gotti's father helped him start a trucking business, Samson Trucking Company, and after the business failed, helped him get a position in the Carpenters Union.\n\nAccording to federal prosecutors, Gotti was inducted into the Gambino crime family on Christmas Eve 1988. According to fellow mobster Michael DiLeonardo, initiated in the same night, Gravano held the ceremony to keep Gotti from being accused of nepotism. He was named a \"caporegime\" (captain) in 1990, and is believed to be the youngest capo in the Gambino family's history.\n\nIn April 1992, his father, John J. Gotti, received a life sentence for racketeering and related offenses. His father asserted his prerogative to retain his title as boss until his death or retirement, with his brother Peter and his son Gotti Jr. relaying orders on his behalf.\n\nRemembering how his father had been brought down by FBI bugs, Gotti adopted a more secretive way of doing business. He discussed mob business mainly through \"walk-talks,\" or conversations held while walking alongside trusted capos. He also tried to pose as a legitimate businessman. However, several of his button men didn't think much of him, thinking he was incompetent. He was not nearly as good a negotiator as his father had been, and the Gambinos lost out on several disputes with the other families. The Genovese family was so unimpressed with Gotti that it refused to deal with him at all. In 1995, Charles Carneglia and John Alite were involved in a major conspiracy to murder Gotti.\n\nIn a 1997 search of the basement of a property owned by Gotti, the FBI found a typed list of the names of the \"made\" members of his organization, as well as $348,700 in cash, a list of the guests who attended his wedding, along with the dollar amount of their wedding gifts (totaling more than $350,000), and two handguns. Also found was a list of several men who were inducted into other families in 1991 and 1992; a longstanding rule in the New York Mafia calls for prospective wiseguys to be vetted by the other families before being inducted. However, normally these lists are destroyed almost as soon as the inductions take place. The discovery enraged Gotti's father as well as the other bosses, since it put dozens of other mafiosi at risk of government scrutiny. The episode earned him the nickname 'dumbfella' in the New York media.\n\nBy 1998, when he was indicted on racketeering charges under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, Gotti Jr. was believed to be the acting boss of the family. Many of the charges related to attempts to extort money from the owners and employees of Scores, an upscale strip club in Manhattan. According to the indictment, the Gambinos had forced the owners of Scores to pay $1 million over a six-year period in order to stay in business, with Gotti's share of the money totaling $100,000. In addition to the lists seized in the 1997 raid, prosecutors obtained transcripts of prison conversations in which Gotti Jr. received advice from his father on how to run the family. Faced with overwhelming evidence, and against his father's wishes, Gotti Jr. pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six years and five months' imprisonment in 1999. He had also given testimonial information against other mobsters, such as Alite. Federal prosecutors say his uncle, Peter Gotti, became head of the Gambino organization after Gotti Jr. was sent to prison, and is believed to have formally succeeded his brother shortly before Gotti Sr.'s death in June 2002. Gotti Jr.'s indictment had brought stress on his parents' marriage; his mother, up to that point, unaware of her son's involvement in the Mafia, blamed her husband for ruining her son's life and threatened to leave him unless he allowed Gotti Jr. to leave the mob.\n\nIn 2004, months before he was released from prison, Gotti was charged in an 11-count racketeering indictment which included an alleged plot to kidnap Curtis Sliwa, founder of the Guardian Angels, as well as securities fraud, extortion and loansharking. A radio talk show host for WABC, Sliwa had allegedly angered the family by denouncing the elder Gotti as \"Public Enemy #1\" on his show. During the trial, two former associates, Michael DiLeonardo and Joseph D'Angelo testified against Gotti. Through his attorney Jeffrey Lichtman, Gotti admitted that he had been involved in the Gambino crime family in the 1990s, and had even been slated to lead the organization after his father was sent to jail in 1992, but claimed he had left criminal life behind after his conviction in 1999. Three juries eventually deadlocked on the charges, the last in 2006, and federal prosecutors decided not to pursue a fourth trial.\n\nIn August 2008, Gotti was arrested and indicted on racketeering and murder conspiracy charges brought in Florida. The charges stemmed from an alleged drug trafficking ring Gotti operated along with former associate-turned-informant John Alite, and with the murders of George Grosso in 1988, Louis DiBono in 1990 and Bruce John Gotterup in 1991. Prosecutors charge that the ring distributed at least five kilograms of cocaine in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Gotti's trial was later moved to New York, where he pleaded not guilty, and began in September 2009.\n\nIn January 2008, Alite pleaded guilty to two murders, four murder conspiracies, at least eight shootings, and two attempted shootings as well as armed home invasions and armed robberies in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Florida, stemming from his alleged involvement in a Gambino crew in Tampa, Florida. Alite agreed to testify in the trial of Gambino family enforcer Charles Carneglia, who was found guilty of four murders and is now serving a life sentence. He then served as a key prosecution witness against Gotti.\n\nDuring the trial, Gotti allegedly threatened Alite by mouthing the words \"I'll kill you\", and engaged in a shouting match with his former associate. After the incident, Victoria Gotti told the \"New York Daily News\" that Alite was \"a pathological liar—a rat caught in a proverbial trap, caught in his own lies...\" Alite testified that Gotti was responsible for at least eight murders, among other crimes.\n\nOn December 1, 2009, the 12 jurors announced that they had failed to reach a unanimous verdict on all the charges and the judge declared a mistrial. After the trial, jurors said that they did not find witnesses, particularly Alite, to be credible. One of the jurors said, \"they should stop this now—it's ridiculous,\" while another said, \"It's abusive. It's almost become a mockery.\" Gotti, Federal Bureau of Prisons Register # 00632-748, was released on December 1, 2009. After Gotti's fourth mistrial, federal prosecutors had indicated that they would not seek another trial against Gotti. In January 2010, the government decided not to pursue further charges against Gotti.\n\nGotti Jr. maintains that he has since left the Gambino family, and in a 2015 interview with the \"New York Daily News\", Gotti denied claims that he was an informant, claiming that he did give the FBI information but that it was false information and that no indictments resulted from the information he gave agents.\n\nIn November 2013, Gotti was stabbed while breaking up a fight in Syosset, New York.\n\nIn 1990, Gotti married Kimberly Albanese, daughter of Joseph Albanese, a flooring/carpet installer. They have six children and live in Oyster Bay Cove on Long Island's North Shore. His son, John Gotti III, is a professional MMA fighter.\n\nGotti authored a 2015 book, \"Shadow of My Father\".\n\nIn September 2010, Fiore Films announced that it had secured the rights from Gotti to produce a movie about his life, in particular his relationship with his father. According to \"Variety\", several producers had expressed interest, but Gotti chose Fiore, a small, newly created production company. The movie, tentatively titled \"Gotti: in the Shadow of My Father,\" was to be directed by Barry Levinson. John Travolta was cast to star as Gotti's father, and Travolta's wife, Kelly Preston, played his on-screen wife, Victoria Gotti. Junior Gotti was played by Spencer Lofranco. The production of the film eventually lost Barry Levinson. On July 25, 2016 principal photography on the film renamed to \"Gotti\" had begun with Kevin Connolly as director. The film was released on June 15, 2018. On June 9, 2018 the documentary TV miniseries \"Gotti: Godfather and Son\" was released.\n\n\n"}
