{"id": "1792247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792247", "title": "Lorenzo Campeggio", "text": "Lorenzo Campeggio\n\nLorenzo Campeggio (1474–1539) was an Italian cardinal and politician. He was the last cardinal protector of England.\n\nCampeggio was born in Milan, the eldest of five sons. In 1500, he took his doctorate in canon and civil law at Bologna and married Francesca Guastavillani with whom he had five children. When she died in 1509, Campeggio began an ecclesiastical career under Pope Julius II's patronage.\n\nHe was soon appointed to two diplomatic missions, both against the Council of Pisa, first to the emperor Maximilian I, who gave him the Bishopric of Feltre in 1512 (held until 1520), and then in 1512–13 to the Duke of Milan. In 1513 he returned to Germany seeking a league against the Turks. Pope Leo X made him a Cardinal on 1 July 1517, and Maximilian made him Cardinal–protector of the Holy Roman Empire. On 3 March 1518 he was sent to England as part of Leo's peace policy. This gave Thomas Wolsey the chance to become legate himself by using permission for Campeggio to enter England as leverage, and then to outmanoeuvre the new legate when he arrived, taking over the process of peace-making which led to the Treaty of London in 1519. He was also a member of Johann Goritz's humanist sodality.\n\nCampeggio was appointed cardinal–protector of England on 22 January 1523. He was not involved in much English business, except for the referring of episcopal provisions in consistory. The election of Pope Adrian VI in 1522 cemented his position in the Roman Curia.\n\nCampeggio wrote his \"De depravato statu ecclesiae\" for Adrian, which proposed radical reforms for the papal bureaucracy. On 2 December 1524 he received the bishopric of Salisbury, which he had been promised in 1518. The election of Pope Clement VII in 1523 further exalted Campeggio's power. Clement made him bishop of Bologna on 2 December 1523 (held until 1525) and then on 9 January 1524 legate to the Diet of Nuremberg.\n\nDuring the sack of Rome in 1527, Campeggio lost everything. Clement, who fled to Orvieto, left him behind as papal legate in the city, just when the English political situation required his attention. Wolsey and Henry VIII expected his support for their proposal that a papal co-legate should decide Henry's divorce from Catherine of Aragon in co-operation with Wolsey. Campeggio had, however, already given a legal opinion to the Pontiff supporting the validity of the marriage.\n\nNevertheless, he was named legate on 8 June 1528, after a joint commission with Wolsey had been agreed on 13 April. Campeggio arrived in London on 8 October 1528 and held the first of many sessions with Wolsey and Henry, the first English King to sue before a papal judge in person.\n\nCampeggio found himself in a difficult position, since Emperor Charles V, Catherine of Aragon's nephew, was determined to prevent the divorce, and was putting pressure on Clement. The deciding point in law for Campeggio was Julius's dispensation for Henry and Catherine's marriage. In Catherine's possession from early in 1528, she showed it to Campeggio in October, and he took it to invalidate his commission, since the latter failed to cover the document. He tried to make the case disappear on 23 July 1529 by proroguing it until October, but this was forestalled by the Pope sending the matter to Rome a week earlier. On his way back to Rome, Campeggio met Charles and Clement in Bologna, where the pope gave Campeggio the castle of Dozza and the Emperor took Campeggio's family under his patronage. Charles later (2 September 1530) gave Campeggio the Spanish bishopric of Huesca and Jaca, which he held until 17 June 1534 when he became bishop of Candia (Crete) (until 1536); in 1532, moreover, when making Campeggio's son Gianbattista bishop of Majorca, the emperor reserved the administration of the see to the young man's father. Campeggio was legate to the Diet of Augsburg in 1530, where he pursued negotiations with Philip Melanchthon.\n\nBy 20 May 1531, Henry had dismissed Campeggio as legate. In August 1533, he lost the revenues of Salisbury, and on 21 March 1534 was deprived of the bishopric by act of Parliament. Campeggio was a member of the commission which excommunicated Henry in 1535. He remained protector of Germany until his death, at the same time devoting much energy to insuring the future of his family; his two sons, two brothers, and one nephew all became bishops. He was named legate to the general council called first at Mantua and then at Vicenza, but he attended only the first session in May 1538. He died on 25 July 1539, aged sixty-four, and was buried in Santa Maria in Trastevere; in 1571 at least some of his bones were transferred to the church of Santi Marta e Bernardino that he had built in Bologna.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1792250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792250", "title": "Abdul Aziz Said", "text": "Abdul Aziz Said\n\nAbdul Aziz Said is a Syrian-born writer and senior-ranking professor of international relations in the School of International Service at American University where he has taught since 1957. He is the first occupant of the endowed Mohammed Said Farsi Chair of Islamic Peace; director-emeritus and founder of AU's Center for Global Peace, which undertakes a range of activities aimed at advancing the understanding of world peace; and founding director of the International Peace and Conflict Resolution department at the School of International Service.\n\nSaid is a frequent lecturer and participant in national and international peace conferences and dialogues, and is deeply involved with a number of professional associations and Service Academies. His past and current public service includes consulting the United States Information Agency, United States Department of State, the United States Department of Defense, the United Nations Development Program, and the White House Committee on the Islamic World. In 2007 he was awarded the El-Hibri Peace Education Prize.\n\nSince joining the American University faculty in 1957, Said has written or edited over a dozen books and published in many journals. He has served on the Board of Directors of Search for Common Ground since 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1792254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792254", "title": "Quebec Autoroute 20", "text": "Quebec Autoroute 20\n\nAutoroute 20 is a Quebec Autoroute, following the Saint Lawrence River through one of the more densely populated parts of Canada, with its central section forming the main route of the Trans-Canada Highway from the A-25 interchange to the A-85 interchange. At , it is the longest Autoroute in Quebec. It is one of two main links between Montreal and Quebec City; the other is the A-40.\n\nThere are two sections of the A-20, separated by a gap. The mainline extends for from the Ontario border to its current terminus at Trois-Pistoles. The second, more northerly section is far shorter (). Constructed as a super two autoroute (one lane in each direction), this section of the A-20 bypasses Rimouski to the south and ends at a roundabout junction with Highway 132 in Mont-Joli. While the Quebec government has completed environmental and economic reviews of the impact of linking the two sections of Autoroute 20, it has not committed the funds necessary for construction. Citing the high number of accidents on the Rimouski-Mont-Joli link of the A-20, many politicians in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region have criticized the government's lack of progress in linking the two sections of autoroute and twinning the two-lane portion.\n\nThe A-20 begins at the Ontario-Quebec border near Rivière-Beaudette as the continuation of Ontario Highway 401. The westernmost section of the A-20 was named the Autoroute du Souvenir (\"Remembrance Highway\") in 2007 to honour Canadian veterans. Road marker signs on this stretch of the autoroute feature a poppy (a traditional symbol of Remembrance in Canada).\n\nAt km 29, the A-20 crosses A-30 (former A-540) before becoming an urban boulevard for approximately eight kilometers (km 30 to 38) in Vaudreuil-Dorion and L'Île-Perrot. This stretch of highway takes the A-20 across the Ottawa River. The speed limit is 50 km/h (30 mph) in Vaudreuil-Dorion and 70 km/h (45 mph) in L'Île-Perrot. The A-20 once again becomes a limited-access highway at km 38, just before crossing the Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue Canal onto the Island of Montreal.\n\nThe A-20 then traverses the West Island (in French, \"l'Ouest de l'Île\") along the north shore of Lac Saint-Louis to an interchange with the A-520. Commonly called the Dorval Interchange, this exit is the main access to Montreal's Trudeau International Airport. Further east, the A-20 crosses the A-13 at its southern terminus, and then, at the St. Pierre Interchange, Route 138 west towards the Mercier Bridge.\n\nJust west of downtown Montreal, the A-20, A-15, and A-720 meet at the Turcot Interchange. From this interchange, A-15 continues north to Laval while A-20 east is multiplexed with A-15 south on the approach to the Samuel-de-Champlain Bridge. Traffic bound for the city centre continues as the A-720 (Autoroute Ville-Marie).\n\nMultiplexed with the A-10 and A-15, all three autoroutes cross the Saint Lawrence River via the Samuel-de-Champlain Bridge to the South Shore (in French, \"Rive Sud\"). The multiplex splits south of the bridge. The A-20 parallels the south shore of the river through suburban Longueuil. The junction with the A-25 affords a direct connection to the Louis Hippolyte Lafontaine Bridge-Tunnel and Montreal's East End. The Trans-Canada Highway joins the A-20 at this junction.\n\nThe largest section of the A-20 (from its junction with A-25 to its easternmost terminus) is named after Jean Lesage, who served as Premier of Quebec from 1960 to 1966, during the Quiet Revolution. Autoroute Jean-Lesage currently exists as two discontinuous sections separated by about 55 kilometers:\n\nFrom the junction with A-25, the A-20 travels east, away from the St. Lawrence River. At kilometer 98, the A-20 intersects the A-30 near Mont Saint-Bruno, crossing the Richelieu River (km 112) just north of Mont-Saint-Hilaire. Bypassing Saint-Hyacinthe, the A-20 forms a multiplex with Route 116 for six kilometers between exits 141 and 147. This section of the A-20 in Centre-du-Québec is located the furthest from the St. Lawrence River (approximately 45 kilometers). Between Drummondville and Sainte-Eulalie, the A-20 forms a multiplex with A-55 for 37 kilometers.\n\nThe A-20 continues across the St. Lawrence Lowlands and Quebec's agricultural heartland. The autoroute once again parallels the river as it approaches metropolitan Quebec City. From this point eastward, the A-20 is never more than five kilometers from the river. At km 312, the A-20 crosses the A-73, a north-south link between Saint-Georges and Quebec City via the Pierre Laporte Bridge. While the control city on the A-20 is listed as \"Québec\", the autoroute never enters the city proper. Before departing the region the A-20 bypasses suburban Lévis.\n\nThis section of the A-20 offers the motorist splendid views over the St. Lawrence River and the mountains of the Côte-Nord, especially Mont-Sainte-Anne and Le Massif. As it continues eastward, the A-20 passes the regional centres of Montmagny and La Pocatière before approaching Rivière-du-Loup and the junction with A-85 at km 499. The Trans-Canada Highway departs the A-20 at this interchange and travels southeast on A-85 toward Edmundston, New Brunswick and the Maritime Provinces. The eastern end of the main section of the A-20 is located in Trois-Pistoles, approximately 40 kilometres east of Rivière-du-Loup.\n\nThe second section of Autoroute Jean-Lesage (km 597 to km 641) connects Rimouski to Mont-Joli. It begins at a junction with Route 132 in the village of Le Bic, approximately 55 km from the current terminus of the A-20 main section. Like its larger counterpart, the Rimouski section of the A-20 parallels the St. Lawrence, providing a southern bypass of Rimouski before ending (at another junction with Route 132) at the western approach to Mont-Joli.\n\nThis section of the A-20 is currently a single carriageway with occasional passing lanes. It was built to accommodate an eventual expansion to four lanes and most overpasses include the clearance needed to accommodate the additional lanes. The high accident rate along this section of the A-20 have prompted many politicians to call for the highway to be expanded to two lanes in each direction.\n\nAn electric fence has been installed on both sides of the highway between km 621 and 628 to prevent moose from crossing the road, while at km 624 an underpass has been constructed to allow wildlife to pass under the highway safely.\n\nTransports Québec (MTQ) is currently engaged in several projects designed to connect the two segments of the A-20 as well as replace outdated sections.\n\nThe MTQ plans to rebuild A-20 (currently an urban boulevard) through Vaudreuil-Dorion and Île-Perrot as a limited-access highway. There is no timeline for this project presently.\n\nIn Montréal, the MTQ has a major work project underway that has shifted the autoroute north between Route 138 and the Turcot Interchange. This new roadway will be complete by the middle of 2020.\n\nLong-range plans by the MTQ call for the two sections of the A-20 to meet. A 9.8 km section of single carriageway was opened to traffic on December 3, 2011 between Cacouna and L'Isle-Verte. As part of this project, a few kilometers of the highway near Cacouna was moved 1.5 km to the south and the old roadbed was destroyed. The MTQ timeline for completing the highway to Trois-Pistoles was met; it opened to traffic in November 2015. Overpasses were constructed for the St-Paul, St-Éloi and Drapeau roads.\n\nRegarding the section from Trois-Pistoles to Le Bic, the Quebec government has completed environmental and economic reviews of the impact of linking the two sections of Autoroute 20, but it has not committed the funds necessary for construction. Frustrated by the long delay in linking the two sections of the A-20, in 2013, the Mayor of Rimouski proposed paying for the construction by tolling the autoroute.\n\nCiting predictions for an increase in ferry traffic to and from the Côte-Nord as a result of the Government of Quebec's Plan Nord, in 2011 the Mayor of Matane called for the further extension of the A-20 to his city.\n\nAutoroute 20 serves as the backdrop to the popular 2002 Quebec film \"Québec-Montréal\" by Ricardo Trogi about seven twenty-something travellers driving between the two cities.\n\nThe Quebec French expression \"à l'autre bout de la 20\" (in English, \"at the other end of the 20\") refers to Montreal when the speaker is in Quebec City, and to Quebec City when one is in Montreal.\n\nOlder Anglophone Montrealers sometimes still refer to the section of the A-20 west of the city as Highway 2-20 (or \"The Two and Twenty\"), but the Route 2 designation was dropped in the mid 1970s.\n\nThe rest stops are located at the following points on Highway 20 and contain the following services:\nA-20 Eastbound\nA-20 Westbound\n\n"}
{"id": "1792263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792263", "title": "William Knox", "text": "William Knox\n\nWilliam Knox may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1792264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792264", "title": "Paolo Avitabile", "text": "Paolo Avitabile\n\nGeneral Paolo Crescenzo Martino Avitabile ; (\"ابوتبیلا Abu Tabela\") (25 October 1791 – 28 March 1850) was an Italian soldier, mercenary and adventurer. A peasant's son born in Agerola, near Amalfi in Italy, he served in the Neapolitan militia during the Napoleonic wars. After Waterloo he drifted east like many other adventurous soldiers. In 1820 he joined the army of the Shah of Persia, attaining the rank of colonel and receiving several decorations before returning to Italy in 1824.\n\nHe joined the army of Maharaja Ranjit Singh of the Punjab in 1827, and later also received various civilian appointments. In 1829 he was made administrator of Wazirabad and in 1837 he succeeded Hari Singh Nalwa as governor of Peshawar. He remained in the Punjab until the assassination of Maharaja Sher Singh in 1843, after which he retired to Italy, where his rank as a general was confirmed and he was knighted.\n\nThe young Avitabile served in the local levies of the Kingdom of Naples between 1807 and 1809, when he joined the artillery of the regular army. As a part of the Imperial Army, Avitabile served under Murat on several campaigns. In these campaigns he earned the rank of Lieutenant, as well as the command of the 15th Battery. After the fall of Napoleon and the defeat of Murat at Tolentino, Naples was restored to Ferdinand I of Sicily. Avitabile retained his rank and command and joined the army of the new Kingdom of Two Sicilies, where he joined the siege of Gaeta under the command of the Austrian general Delaver.\n\nDuring this siege, he displayed great bravery and was wounded twice. The general recommended him for a promotion and a decoration, but was not heard. Avitabile was transferred instead to a position of lieutenant in a regiment of light infantry. It is said he quit in disgust over this treatment. His European career had come to an end.\n\nHaving quit the army in Naples, Avitabile set his eyes on a career abroad. His initial idea was to, as many of his countrymen, seek fortune in America but this ended in a shipwreck off Marseille. Instead, he was advised to seek employment to the east. In Constantinople he was approached by an agent of the Persian Shah Fath Ali Shah recruiting European officers; in 1820, Avitabile took service with the Persian Shah. He remained in this employment for six years, during which period he rose to the rank of \"khan\" and a grade of colonel in the Persian army. Here he also met Claude August Court who would later accompany him on the travel to Punjab. Avitabile was rewarded for his services by two of Persia's highest decorations as Grand Commander of \"The Lion and Sun\" and of \"The Two Lions and Crown\", but found the pay lacking. When he heard favourable notice from Jean-Baptiste Ventura of his employment in Punjab Ventura again broke up to travel further to the east.\n\nTogether with Court, Avitabile arrived in Lahore in 1827 and was hired by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. He was given a position with the artillery and put in charge of the arsenal and gun foundries. He was also given a civilian position as governor of Wazirabad. It would seem he was an able administrator, as he held the position for the next seven years and as a result, Wazirabad prospered.\n\nIn 1834 he was appointed governor of Peshawar, an area the Maharaja had conquered from the Afghans the previous year.\n\nWhere as his rule of Wazirabad is described as just and rigorous, his governorship of Peshawar is depicted as a rule of \"gallows and gibbets\". Avitabile boasted: \"When I marched into Peshawar, I sent on in advance a number of wooden posts which my men erected around the walls of the city. The men scoffed at them and laughed at the madness of the \"feringhee\" [a disparaging local language term for Westerners], and harder still when my men came in and laid coils of rope at the foot of the posts...However, when my preparations were completed and they found one fine morning danging from these posts, fifty of the worse characters in Peshawar, they thought different. And I repeated the exhibition every day till I had made a scarcity of brigands and murderers. Then I had to deal with the liars and tale bearers. My method with them was to cut out their tongues. When a surgeon appeared and professed to be able to restore their speech, I sent for him and cut out his tongue also. After that there was peace\".\n\nWith a ruthless, at times brutal, style of government, Avitabile established order in the province where he became known as Abu Tabela. Summary executions became usual, and it is said that he would have people executed by throwing them from the top of Mahabat Khan Mosque. The American adventurer Alexander Gardner wrote about Avitabile's rule in Peshawar: \"Under his rule small pains are taken to distinguish between innocence and guilt, and many a man, ignorant of the alleged crime, pays for it with his life\". While this brutality was shocking to visiting Europeans (in the words of Sir Henry Lawrence: \"he acts like a savage among savage men, instead of showing them that a Christian can wield the iron sceptre without staining it by needless cruelty\"), it proved both successful in maintaining order and even popular among the peaceful inhabitants.\n\nHis iron fist rule over Peshawar has made a place for him in local folklore. Even today unruly children in the city are brought to control by invoking Abu Tabela's name. In times of unrest, law-abiding citizens send a small wish for the return of an Abu Tabela to finally re-impose law and order.\n\nThe control of this strategic position brought him in contact with the British army during the First Anglo-Afghan War (1839–42), where he was able to render vital assistance. As governor of Peshawar, Avitabile controlled the southern entrance to the Khyber Pass, although the Maharaja did not allow for the British to move through the Sikh Empire to reach the Khyber pass, he ordered Avitable to assist the British through the pass itself, into Afghanistan. During Elphinstone's advance in 1839, the British were well received in Peshawar and their officers received a princely treatment. Captain Havelock spent a month in Peshawar, and describes the splendour of Avitabile's court in his memoirs. He also gives a favourable characterisation of the governor: \"\"He is, moreover, a frank, gay, and good-humoured person, as well as an excellent and skilful officer.\"\"\n\nAvitabile was also a scholar and an engineer, who worked very closely with the most brilliant Sikh engineer Lehna Singh Majithia.\n\nWhen the British returned in 1842, to avenge the defeat of Elphinstone, they were given every possible assistance by Avitabile's government, while he was still in the employ of the Sikh Empire as the Afghans had been a longtime enemy of the Sikhs. \n\nAvitabile remained in the position of Governor during the First Anglo-Afghan War until he left in 1843. Having secured his retirement in Europe, he resigned his position to return home.\n\nAs one of the few European adventurers in the area, he succeeded in building a fortune and getting away with it. He returned to Naples, where he built a grand home in San Lazzaro (Agerola). He died soon after marrying a local girl: Enrichetta Coccia. The following legal battle over his inheritance, and the many distant relatives asserting their claims, made \"Avitabile's cousin\" something of a byword in Italy.\n\nAvitabile is a minor character in \"Flashman\", a 1969 novel by George MacDonald Fraser. The narrator describes him as a \"great, grey-bearded ox of a man... the Sikhs and Afghans were more scared of him than of the Devil himself.\" Despite Avitabile never facing Sikhs in battle himself or even having a reputation among common Sikhs or his fellow soldiers.\n\nAvitabile won honours in every country he served. The inscription on his tomb at Agerola lists:\n\n\n\n"}
